---
title: RFID reader with sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation
abstract: RFID readers configured to transmit a radio frequency signal include a sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation circuit that generates two or more distinct phase variants of the transmit signal, selects two of the phase variants with a vector projection of one of the selected phase variants on another of the selected phase variants being substantially greater than zero such that a canceling signal comprising a combination of the at least two phase variants is substantially opposite in phase to a self-jamming signal, and selects amplitudes for the at least two selected phase variants such that the canceling signal is substantially equal in amplitude to the self-jamming signal. The canceling signal is then combined with the self-jamming signal to reduce the amplitude of an RF signal received by a receive circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08260241&OS=08260241&RS=08260241
owner: Impinj, Inc.
number: 08260241
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101028
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/257,774 filed on Nov. 3, 2009. The disclosures of the provisional patent application are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.","Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) systems typically include RFID tags and RFID readers. RFID readers are also known as RFID reader\/writers or RFID interrogators. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are particularly useful in product-related and service-related industries for tracking objects being processed, inventoried, or handled. In such cases, an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item, or to its package.","In principle, RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to interrogate one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency (RF) wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic, at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field.","A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave responds by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag generates the transmitted back RF wave either originally, or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.","The reflected-back RF wave may further encode data stored internally in the tag, such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader, which thereby identifies, counts, or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number, a price, a date, a destination, other attribute(s), any combination of attributes, and so on.","An RFID tag typically includes an antenna subsystem and a radio subsystem including a modem, a power management section, a logical section, and a memory. In some RFID tags the power management section includes an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as active or battery-assisted tags. Advances in semiconductor technology have miniaturized the electronics so much that an RFID tag can be powered solely by the RF signal it receives. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device such as a battery, and are called passive tags. Regardless of the type, all tags typically store or buffer some energy temporarily in passive storage devices such as capacitors.","In RFID readers, a portion of the RF signal transmitted by the transmit circuitry of the reader may couple into a receive path of the same reader as a \u201cself-jammer\u201d signal due to antenna reflection. Because the RF signals transmitted by the RFID tags (in response to the RF signal transmitted by the reader) are relatively weak signals, the self-jammer signal may interfere with the RF signals received from the tags causing degradation of quality or unintended operations at the reader. One approach to mitigating the self-jammer signal is attenuating a received signal at the RFID reader's front end through resistive or similar components, but that would also attenuate the already weak RFID tag signals, and is therefore an undesirable solution. Another approach is to attenuate the self-jammer signal by substantially cancelling it with a replica signal that is equal in amplitude but opposite in phase to the self-jammer signal. Such readers may generate the cancellation replica signal by combining appropriate amplitudes of two orthogonal signals that are separated in phase by 90 degrees.","This summary introduces a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Embodiments are directed to a sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation circuit adapted to receive a self-jamming signal associated with the transmit signal and generate at least two distinct phase variants of the transmit signal. The sub-orthogonal self-jammer circuit may select two of the distinct phase variants, where a vector projection of a first of the selected phase variants on a second of the selected phase variants is substantially greater than zero, and a canceling signal comprising a combination of the selected phase variants is substantially opposite in phase to the self-jamming signal. According to some embodiments, the sub-orthogonal self-jammer circuit may also select amplitudes for each of the two phase variants such that the canceling signal is substantially equal in amplitude to the self-jamming signal and combine the canceling signal with the self-jamming signal to reduce the amplitude of the RF signal received by the receive circuit.","These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.","In the following detailed description, references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined, other aspects may be utilized, and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","112","120","110","112","126","110","126"]},"Reader  and tag  exchange data via wave  and wave . In a session of such an exchange each encodes, modulates, and transmits data to the other, and each receives, demodulates, and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto, and demodulated from, RF waveforms. The RF waveforms are typically in a suitable range of frequencies, such as those near 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, and so on.","Encoding the data can be performed in a number of ways. For example, protocols are devised to communicate in terms of symbols, also called RFID symbols. A symbol for communicating can be a delimiter, a calibration symbol, and so on. Further symbols can be implemented for ultimately exchanging binary data, such as \u201c0\u201d and \u201c1\u201d, if that is desired. In turn, when the symbols are processed internally by reader  and tag , they can be equivalently considered and treated as numbers having corresponding values, and so on.","Tag  can be a passive tag, or an active or battery-assisted tag (i.e., having its own power source). Where tag  is a passive tag, it is powered from wave .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["220","120","220"]},"Tag  is typically formed on a substantially planar inlay , which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag  includes an electrical circuit which is preferably implemented as an IC . IC  is arranged on inlay .","Tag  also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC  is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable antenna terminals (not shown in ).","The antenna may be made in a number of ways. In the example of , the antenna is made from two distinct antenna segments , which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible, using any number of antenna segments. In some embodiments, an antenna can be made with even a single segment. Different points of the segment can be coupled to one or more of the antenna terminals of IC . For example, the antenna can form a single loop, with its ends coupled to the terminals. It should be remembered that even a single segment could behave like multiple segments at the frequencies of RFID wireless communication.","In operation, a signal is received by the antenna and communicated to IC . IC  both harvests power, and responds if appropriate, based on the incoming signal and the IC's internal state. In order to respond by replying, IC  modulates the reflectance of the antenna, which generates backscatter  from wave  transmitted by the reader. Coupling together and uncoupling the antenna terminals of IC  can modulate the antenna's reflectance, as can a variety of other means.","In the embodiment of , antenna segments  are separate from IC . In other embodiments, antenna segments may alternatively be formed on IC , and so on. Furthermore, an interface element may be used to couple the IC  to the antenna segments  (not shown in ).","The components of the RFID system of  may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half-duplex, and is described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","120","220"]},"RFID reader  and RFID tag  talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME, when reader  talks to tag  the communication session is designated as \u201cR\u2192T\u201d, and when tag  talks to reader  the communication session is designated as \u201cT\u2192R\u201d. Along the TIME axis, a sample R\u2192T communication session occurs during a time interval , and a following sample T\u2192R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval  is typically of a different duration than interval \u2014here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.","According to blocks  and , RFID reader  talks during interval , and listens during interval . According to blocks  and , RFID tag  listens while reader  talks (during interval ), and talks while reader  listens (during interval ).","In terms of actual technical behavior, during interval , reader  talks to tag  as follows. According to block , reader  transmits wave , which was first described in . At the same time, according to block , tag  receives wave  and processes it, to extract data and so on. Meanwhile, according to block , tag  does not backscatter with its antenna, and according to block , reader  has no wave to receive from tag .","During interval , tag  talks to reader  as follows. According to block , reader  transmits a Continuous Wave (CW), which can be thought of as a carrier signal that ideally encodes no information. As discussed before, this carrier signal serves both to be harvested by tag  for its own internal power needs, and also as a wave that tag  can backscatter. Indeed, during interval , according to block , tag  does not receive a signal for processing. Instead, according to block , tag  modulates the CW emitted according to block , so as to generate backscatter wave . Concurrently, according to block , reader  receives backscatter wave  and processes it.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","400","410","470","410","470","110","410","470","110","400","410"]},"Local block  is responsible for communicating with tags. Local block  includes a block  of an antenna and a driver of the antenna for sending signals to and receiving signals from the tags. Some readers, like that shown in local block , contain a single antenna and driver. Some contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them, including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. And some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator\/decoder block  demodulates and decodes RF waves received from the tags via antenna(s)\/drivers block . Modulator\/encoder block  encodes and modulates an RF wave that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna(s)\/drivers block .","Local block  additionally includes an optional local processor . Processor  may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include, by way of examples and not of limitation, digital and\/or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital-signal processors (DSPs); controllers such as microcontrollers; software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer; programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), Field-Programmable Analog Arrays (FPAAs), Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs), Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASIC), any combination of one or more of these; and so on. In some cases, some or all of the decoding function in block , the encoding function in block , or both, may be performed instead by processor . In some cases processor  may implement an encryption or authorization function; in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block , or may be entirely incorporated in another block.","Local block  additionally includes an optional local memory . Memory  may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include, by way of examples and not of limitation, nonvolatile memories (NVM), read-only memories (ROM), random access memories (RAM), any combination of one or more of these, and so on. These memories can be implemented separately from processor , or in a single chip with processor , with or without other components. Memory , if provided, can store programs for processor  to run, if needed.","In some embodiments, memory  stores data read from tags, or data to be written to tags, such as Electronic Product Codes (EPCs), Tag Identifiers (TIDs) and other data. Memory  can also include reference data that is to be compared to the EPC codes, instructions and\/or rules for how to encode commands for the tags, modes for controlling antenna(s)\/drivers , and so on. In some of these embodiments, local memory  is provided as a database.","Some components of local block  may treat the data as analog, such as the antenna(s)\/drivers block . Other components such as memory  may treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs, a whole reader may be characterized as \u201canalog\u201d or \u201cdigital\u201d, but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.","If remote components  are indeed provided, they are coupled to local block  via an electronic communications network . Network  can be a Local Area Network (LAN), a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), a Wide Area Network (WAN), a network of networks such as the internet, or a mere local communication link, such as a USB, PCI, and so on. In turn, local block  then includes a local network connection  for communicating with network . Communications on the network can be secure, such as if they are encrypted or physically protected, or insecure, such as if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected.","There can be one or more remote component(s) . If more than one, they can be located at the same location, or in different locations. They can access each other and local block  via network , or via other similar networks, and so on. Accordingly, remote component(s)  can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection  is shown, which is similar to local network connection , etc.","Remote component(s)  can also include a remote processor . Processor  can be made in any way known in the art, such as was described with reference to local processor . Remote processor  may also implement an encryption function, similar to local processor .","Remote component(s)  can also include a remote memory . Memory  can be made in any way known in the art, such as was described with reference to local memory . Memory  may include a local database, and a different database of a Standards Organization, such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory  may also contain information associated with phase amplitude selection or the like, similar to local memory .","Of the above-described elements, it may be advantageous to consider a combination of these components, designated as operational processing block . Block  includes the following components: local processor , remote processor , local network connection , remote network connection , and by extension an applicable portion of network  that links remote network connection  with local network connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable, etc. In addition, block  can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna(s)\/drivers , and cause antenna(s)\/drivers  to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.","Block  includes either local processor , or remote processor , or both. If both are provided, remote processor  can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact, the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that block , as defined this way, is in communication with both local memory  and remote memory , if both are present.","Accordingly, block  is location agnostic, in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor , or by remote processor , or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor , and some by remote processor . Block  accesses local memory , or remote memory , or both for storing and\/or retrieving data.","Reader system  operates by block  generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna(s)\/drivers block , with modulator\/encoder block  encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna(s)\/drivers block , demodulated and decoded by demodulator\/decoder block , and processed by processing block .","Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware, software, firmware, or any combination. It is advantageous to consider such a system as subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware, some as software, some as firmware, and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described, together with the RFID tag as an additional module.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500"]},"An RFID tag  is considered here as a module by itself. Tag  conducts a wireless communication  with the remainder, via the air interface . It is noteworthy that air interface  is really only a boundary, in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags communicate with each other, for example Class-1 Generation-2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz\u2014960 MHz (\u201cGen2 Protocol\u201d) by EPCglobal, Inc. properly characterizes that boundary as an interface. Contents of Gen2 Specification version 1.2 are hereby incorporated by reference.","RFID reader system  includes one or more antennas , and an RF Analog Front End , for interfacing with antenna(s) . These can be made as described above.","RFID reader system  also includes a Signal Processing module . In one embodiment, module  exchanges waveforms with Front End , such as I and Q waveform pairs.","RFID reader system  also includes a Physical Driver module , which is also known as Data Link. In one embodiment, module  exchanges bits with module . Data Link  can be the stage associated with framing of data.","RFID reader system  additionally includes a Media Access Control module , which is also known as MAC layer. In one embodiment, module  exchanges packets of bits with module . MAC layer  can make decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication, which in this case is the air interface.","RFID reader system  moreover includes an Application Programming Library module . This module can include Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), other objects, etc.","All of these RFID reader system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a Host Operating System (OS) and\/or Central Processing Unit (CPU) . In some embodiments, the processor is not considered as a separate module, but one that includes some of the above-mentioned modules of system . In some embodiments the one or more processors may perform operations associated with influencing a behavior of a tag based on the tag's public or private profile.","A user interface  is coupled to library , for accessing the APIs. User interface  can be manual, automatic, or both. It can be supported by the host processor  mentioned above, or a separate processor, etc.","It will be observed that the modules of RFID reader system  form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors, buses, interfaces, and so on. These instrumentalities can be local, e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other, or over a network, for remote communication.","The chain is used in one direction for receiving RFID waveforms and in the other direction for transmitting RFID waveforms. In receiving mode, antenna(s)  receives wireless waves, which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules. In transmitting mode, waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately, signals are routed to antenna(s)  to be transmitted as wireless waves.","The architecture of RFID reader system  is presented for purposes of explanation, and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore, the features of the present disclosure can be performed within a single one of the modules, or by a combination of them.","As mentioned previously, embodiments are directed to RFID readers with sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation. While embodiments are typically implemented using RF circuits, discrete or integrated, made in a variety of ways, they may also include programs, and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result, due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program is usually advantageously implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor, such as the processors described above.","Performing the steps, instructions, or operations of a program requires manipulating physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities may be transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions, and they may also be stored in a computer-readable medium. These quantities include, for example, electrical, magnetic, and electromagnetic charges or particles, states of matter, and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits, data bits, samples, values, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like. It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities, and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities, individually or in groups.","Embodiments furthermore include storage media. Such media, individually or in combination with others, have stored thereon instructions of a program made according to the embodiments. A storage medium according to the embodiments is a computer-readable medium, such as a memory, and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory, it can be implemented in a number of ways, such as Read Only Memory (ROM), Random Access Memory (RAM), etc., some of which are volatile and some nonvolatile.","Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer-readable medium, it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory, or even a single machine. Various portions, modules or features of it may reside in separate memories, or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly, or through a network such as a local access network (LAN) or a global network such as the Internet. Often, for the sake of convenience only, it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary, or thought of in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["602","520"]},"RFID readers may have a single antenna that is shared between the transmit (TX circuit) and receive (RX circuit) circuitry or an antenna shared by the circuits. Diagram  illustrates an example for the first case, where circulator  in RF analog front end  is used to isolate the transmit circuitry (TX circuit), which includes of power amplifier (PA)  and includes additional circuits in , and the receive circuitry (RX circuit), which includes of self-jammer cancellation circuit (SJC) , low noise amplifier circuit (LNA) , receive mixer , and includes additional circuits in . Antenna  is used by both the receive circuitry and the transmit circuitry. Circulators, such as , are directional RF devices with the property of providing low-loss connectivity between a signal input to a circulator port and a signal output at the next circulator port in the circulator direction, which is clockwise for circulator  in .","Circulators provide isolation between an input port and the adjacent port in the other direction. In  the output of power amplifier (PA)  drives circulator , and the circulator provides a low loss path between the PA output and antenna , which is connected to the adjacent clockwise circulator port. Circulator  provides high isolation between the PA output and the receive circuitry signal path input RX_IN. However signals received from the antenna back into the circulator are connected to RX_IN with low loss because RX_IN is the adjacent clockwise circulator port relative to the antenna. Sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation methods according to embodiments are typically implemented at SJC circuit  in the receive circuitry. A high-impedance tap (resistor ) at the output of a power amplifier  generates a signal TX_SIG which is used as an input to SJC circuit  and as a local oscillator input signal for driving receive mixer . Additional inputs to SJC circuit  include RX_IN from circulator  and MIX_OUT from receive mixer . The output of SJC circuit  drives the input of LNA .","As shown in , the reader transmits a continuous wave (CW) to the tag during \u201cT\u2192R\u201d (tag to reader) communication sessions. This CW supplies power to the tag and serves as a carrier for tag backscatter modulation signaling to the reader. However with a shared transmit and receive antenna, as used in the RF analog front end shown in , some of the transmitted CW power will be reflected from the antenna  back through the circulator  and into RX_IN. This reflected CW is referred to as a self-jammer, and is typically much larger than the backscatter-modulated waveform from the tag. Reflection from a shared transmit and receive antenna is not the only mechanism that can cause a self-jammer. An RFID system with separate antennas for receive and transmit may also have a self-jammer, which occurs due to coupling between the transmit and receive antennas.","Since the desired tag backscatter modulation is superimposed on the self-jammer, the self-jammer amplitude limits the maximum gain that can be used in receiver LNA  without causing significant signal compression. By limiting LNA gain, a large amplitude self-jammer reduces the modulation signal amplitude in subsequent receiver stages and thus also reduces receiver SNR (signal to noise ratio) and sensitivity. The self-jammer also introduces amplitude modulated (AM) noise from the reader transmit path into the receiver that cannot be removed in the receiver mixer .","To allow higher receiver LNA gain, thus increasing receiver SNR and sensitivity, and to reduce the amount of reader transmit path AM noise introduced into the receiver, it is desirable to reduce the amplitude of the self-jammer before it enters the receiver LNA. A known and practiced technique for reducing self-jammer amplitude in RFID readers is to create a replica of the self-jammer, equal in amplitude but with opposite phase, and to sum this replica with the existing signal at the receiver input, which otherwise consists of the tag backscatter modulation and the self-jammer. Since the replica and the self-jammer have the same amplitude but opposite phase, they cancel and the resulting signal is ideally just the tag modulation. This technique is known as self-jammer cancellation and is implemented in SJC circuit .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","606","700","710","710","720","720","730","608"]},"Any uncancelled self-jammer signal present at the output of SJC circuit  will pass through LNA  to mixer , and will be mixed down to DC by the mixer. The magnitude of DC present in MIX_OUT is thus an indication of self-jammer cancellation completeness. \u201cPhase variant selection circuit\u201d  in SJC circuit  can optimize cancellation completeness by selecting phase variants and by controlling AMP_ADJ to adjust their amplitudes in \u201camplitude adjustment summation circuit\u201d . Phase selection and amplitude adjustment may be implemented by an algorithm that minimizes the magnitude of DC present in MIX_OUT, which may be connected to the FB_IN input of SJC circuit . Phase selection and amplitude adjustment may also be implemented by hardware or a combination of hardware and software. Portions of the phase variant selection circuit may be shared with other circuits in the reader. For example the magnitude of DC present in MIX_OUT may be determined from the digital output of a receiver analog to digital converter (ADC) following the mixer. This ADC may be located in block  of . And the circuit that processes the ADC digital output to determine the magnitude of DC present in MIX_OUT may be located in signal processing block  in .","Other implementations of selecting two phase variants and adjusting their amplitudes in an SJC circuit may also be used. The sum of the two selected and scaled phase variant signals PHASE_A and PHASE_B is the cancellation replica signal discussed above. This summation is implemented in \u201camplitude adjustment summation circuit\u201d , which also sums the cancellation replica with input signal RX_IN to create the output SJC_OUT. RX_IN is the receiver input signal from circulator  in , and SJC_OUT is the output, which has the self-jammer removed, of \u201cself-jammer cancellation circuit\u201d  in . In some implementations \u201camplitude adjustment summation circuit\u201d  may contain two summation circuits, a first summation circuit that sums PHASE_A and PHASE_B to create the cancellation replica, and a second summation circuit that sums the cancellation replica with RX_IN to create SJC_OUT. In other implementations \u201camplitude adjustment summation circuit\u201d  may contain a single, three input summation circuit that sums PHASE_A, PHASE_B, and RX_IN to create SJC_OUT directly.","The following paragraphs describe the mathematical basis for both orthogonal SJC and sub-orthogonal SJC, and show that both can be effective in canceling a self-jammer. Prior art RFID self-jammer cancellation circuits use orthogonal SJC because it is a simple and effective method based on well known quadrature signal processing techniques commonly used in radio receivers, including RFID receivers. Sub-orthogonal SJC is not as simple as orthogonal SJC, however it is also effective in canceling a self-jammer, and it can provide a significant advantage in lower power consumption as is shown below.","The mathematical basis for the prior-art four-phase (also known as orthogonal or quadrature) SJC method, referred to here as orthogonal SJC, is shown in , in which the amplitudes and phases of CW signals are represented by the magnitudes and angles of corresponding vectors. The four orthogonal vectors , , , and  in  are the phase variant signals used to generate the SJC replica. The phase difference between adjacent phase variants in  is 90 degrees. The self-jammer is vector  in , with amplitude J and phase j, and the cancellation replica is vector , with amplitude R and phase r.","Cancellation replica vector  is created by summing the two selected phase variant vectors  and , which are derived from phase variant vectors  and  by adjusting their amplitudes such that the cancellation vector amplitude equals the self-jammer amplitude (R=J), and the cancellation vector phase is opposite to the self-jammer phase (r=j\u00b1180 degrees). A self-jammer with any amplitude and phase may be cancelled by selecting two of the orthogonal phase variants in , adjusting their amplitudes to create a cancellation replica with the same amplitude as and opposite phase to the self-jammer, and summing the cancellation replica with the self-jammer. The phase difference between the two phase variants used by orthogonal SJC to create the cancellation replica is 90 degrees. A self-jammer with any amplitude and phase may also be cancelled by selecting more than two phase variants.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIGS. 8C and 8D","FIG. 8C","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8C","FIG. 8D","FIG. 8C","FIG. 8D"],"b":["840","849","831","832","833","834","835","836","837","838","841","842"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIGS. 8C and 8D","FIG. 8D","FIG. 8C"],"b":["831","832","833","834","835","836","837","838","831","832","841","842","849","833","834","835","836","837","838","849","831","832","833","834","831","832","831","832"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1020","1030","1010","1010","1020","1030"],"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["A ","a=B ","b","R=A ","a+B ","b"]},"Equations (1) and (2) can be solved to determine the lengths of the two selected phase variant vectors:\n\n\/(cos +sin \/tan )\u2003\u2003(3)\n\n\/(cos +sin \/tan )\u2003\u2003(4)\n","The worst case maximum combined amplitude, A+B, of the two selected phase variant vectors occurs for a cancellation replica phase halfway between them. Thus for orthogonal phase variant vectors with a 90 degree phase difference, the maximum combined selected phase variant vector amplitude is 1.414 R, which occurs when the cancellation replica is 45 degrees from each of the two selected phase variant vectors (a=b=45 degrees). For an example of sub-orthogonal SJC in which the two selected phase variant vectors are selected from a set of eight phase variant vectors equally spaced 45 degrees apart, the maximum combined selected phase variant vector amplitude is 1.082 R, which occurs when the cancellation replica is 22.5 degrees from each of the two selected phase variant vectors (a=b=22.5 degrees). As shown in this example, the combined selected phase variant vector amplitude of 1.082 R for sub-orthogonal SJC is substantially smaller than the combined selected phase variant vector amplitude of 1.414 R for orthogonal SJC.","For the special case discussed above, an expression can be derived for the worst case maximum combined amplitude of the two selected phase variant vectors as a function of the phase angle difference between them. In this special case, the two phase angle differences between each of the selected phase variant vectors and the replica vector are equal (a=b=c\/2), where c is the phase angle difference between the two selected phase vectors. From equation (2),\n\n=()cos =()cos(2)\u2003\u2003(5)\n\nSubstituting a well known trigonometric identity for cos (c\/2) and solving for the combined amplitude,\n\n{(1+cos )\/2}\u2003\u2003(6)\n\nEquation (6) shows that the worst case maximum combined amplitude of the two selected phase variant vectors, which will be shown below to be proportional to SJC power consumption, is inversely proportional to the cosine of the angle between the selected phase variants. For orthogonal SJC the angle between the phase variants is 90 degrees with a cosine of zero. As shown by equation (6) this results in a substantially higher combined amplitude for the selected phase variants than for sub-orthogonal SJC in which the angle between the phase variants is substantially less than 90 degrees with a cosine substantially greater than zero.\n","The length of the projection of one vector onto another is proportional to the cosine of the angle between them. For orthogonal vectors, which are separated by 90 degrees, the cosine of the separation angle is zero and the length of the vector projection is also zero. For sub-orthogonal vectors, which are separated by an angle substantially less than 90 degrees, the cosine of the separation angle is substantially greater than zero and the length of the vector projection is also substantially greater than zero. As shown above the substantially greater than zero cosine of the phase variants used for sub-orthogonal SJC results in a substantially lower maximum amplitude for the selected phase variants than for orthogonal SJC, and as will be shown below, this results in substantially lower power consumption.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["900","730","900","612","926","928","905","907","904","906","918","920","924","930","905","907","905","907","904","906"]},"The AMP_ADJ input signal to \u201camplitude adjustment summation circuit\u201d  is used to control the amplitudes of the summation currents derived from the two selected differential phase variant input signals, PHASE_A:PHASE_A\\ and PHASE_B:PHASE_B\\, by varying the capacitance values of capacitors , , , and . The AMP_ADJ signal is generated by \u201cphase variant selection circuit\u201d . The power consumption of SJC circuit  is dominated the power consumption of \u201camplitude adjustment summation circuit\u201d , which is dominated by the power consumed by buffer amplifier bias currents , , , and . Because these bias currents must be large enough to supply signal current to the capacitors during the negative half-cycles of the RF signal swing, their minimum required values are determined by the amplitudes of the summation currents derived from the two phase variant input signals. To minimize buffer amplifier bias current, the \u201camplitude adjustment summation circuit\u201d is typically designed such that each buffer amplifier bias current is adjusted together with the capacitance value of the capacitor driven by the buffer amplifier. Thus, as the capacitors are adjusted by AMP_ADJ to optimize self-jammer cancellation, the buffer amplifier bias currents are also simultaneously adjusted by the same AMP_ADJ input signal to minimize power consumption for the specific self-jammer being received and cancelled.","The power consumption of the buffer amplifiers, and of both the \u201camplitude adjustment summation circuit\u201d and the overall SJC circuit, is thus proportional to the phase variant summation current amplitudes. SJC circuit power consumption can thus be reduced by reducing the amplitudes of the phase variant summation currents used to create the cancellation replica. As discussed above, the combined phase variant amplitude for sub-orthogonal SJC is substantially smaller than the combined phase variant amplitude for orthogonal SJC. Thus, sub-orthogonal SJC may be implemented with lower power consumption than the orthogonal SJC approach shown in . Lower power consumption provides several benefits, such as longer battery life, reduced heat generation, and lower operating cost.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIGS. 11 and 12","FIG. 8C","FIG. 7"],"b":["1100","1200","1100","1200","710"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 8C"]},"The poly-phase filter illustrated in diagram  includes two interconnected four section poly-phase filter rings with one differential input, TX_SIG:TX_SIG\\. The component values are selected such that the phase shift across each resistor is 45 degrees. This allows each section to generate phase outputs of 45 and 90 degrees, with a total of eight outputs for the double ring filter. Thus, the eight phase variant outputs are separated by 45 degrees in phase. The outputs of poly-phase filter  may be configured as differential signals by coupling each output with its opposite in phase, for example PHASE1:PHASE5, PHASE6:PHASE2, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"A sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation circuit according to embodiments may employ a single or multiple poly-phase filter rings in a \u201cphase variant generation circuit\u201d. Diagram  is an example poly-phase filter circuit with one differential input, TX_SIG:TX_SIG\\, and three poly-phase filter rings in which the component values in the ring sections are chosen such that the phase shift across each resistor is 30 degrees. This example triple ring poly-phase filter has twelve phase variant outputs, which are separated by 30 degrees in phase. The outputs of poly-phase filter  may be configured as differential signals by coupling each output with its opposite in phase, for example PHASE1:PHASE7, PHASE9:PHASE3, etc.","According to other embodiments, a sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation circuit may be implemented with additional filter rings, different filter sections, tap configurations, and outputs in order to generate more than four phases. While additional phase variants may mean an increased number of components, the consumed power decreases in proportionality to the phase variant amplitudes, which in turn decrease in proportion to a number of the phase variants. Of course, other filter designs may also be employed to generate phase variants.","Embodiments also include methods. Some are methods of operation of an RFID reader or an RFID reader system. Others are methods for controlling an RFID reader or an RFID reader system. Yet others are methods for controlling one or more RFID tags. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways, including the ways described in this document. One such way is by machine operations, of devices of the type described in this document.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"1300"},"Process  begins at optional operation , in which a calibration process is optionally performed for the selection of the phase-variant amplitudes. The calibration may be repeated after each power-off, antenna change, etc. At operation , a signal associated with a reader transmit signal is received at the self-jammer cancellation circuitry.","At operation  following operation , two or more phase variants are generated from the signal received in operation . At operation  two of the phase variants are selected, where the phase difference between the selected phase variants is substantially less than 90 degrees. The two phase variants selected are the phase variant with the closest phase less than the desired phase of the cancellation vector and the phase variant with the closest phase greater than the desired phase of the cancellation vector. At operation , amplitudes are selected for the two phase variants selected in operation . The amplitudes are selected such that a combination of the two amplitude-adjusted selected phase variants cancels the self-jammer signal at the receive circuitry of the reader.","At operation , the two amplitude-adjusted selected phase variants are superimposed with the self-jammer signal substantially cancelling the self-jammer signal and allowing the received tag signal(s) to be processed by the receive circuitry.","The operations included in process  are for illustration purposes. Performing sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation according to embodiments may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps, as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.","The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and\/or processes via the use of block diagrams and\/or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and\/or examples contain one or more functions and\/or aspects, it will be understood by those within the art that each function and\/or aspect within such block diagrams or examples (e.g. tags and readers according to embodiments) may be implemented individually and\/or collectively by a wide range of hardware, software, firmware, or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the RFID self-jammer embodiments disclosed herein, in whole or in part, may be equivalently implemented employing integrated circuits, as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers (e.g., as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems), as one or more programs running on one or more processors (e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors), as firmware, or as virtually any combination thereof, and that designing the circuitry and\/or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the means of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.","The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application, which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure, in addition to those enumerated herein, will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods, configurations, command structures, and the like, which can, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.","With respect to the use of substantially any plural and\/or singular terms herein, those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and\/or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and\/or application. The various singular\/plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.","It will be understood by those within the art that, in general, terms used herein, and especially in the appended claims (e.g., bodies of the appended claims) are generally intended as \u201copen\u201d terms (e.g., the term \u201cincluding\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincluding but not limited to,\u201d the term \u201chaving\u201d should be interpreted as \u201chaving at least,\u201d the term \u201cincludes\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincludes but is not limited to,\u201d etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended, such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim, and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example, as an aid to understanding, the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases \u201cat least one\u201d and \u201cone or more\u201d to introduce claim recitations. However, the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation, even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases \u201cone or more\u201d or \u201cat least one\u201d and indefinite articles such as \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d (e.g., \u201ca\u201d and\/or \u201can\u201d should be interpreted to mean \u201cat least one\u201d or \u201cone or more\u201d); the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition, even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited, those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number (e.g., the bare recitation of \u201ctwo recitations,\u201d without other modifiers, means at least two recitations, or two or more recitations).","Furthermore, in those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, and C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, and C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and\/or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms, whether in the description, claims, or drawings, should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms, either of the terms, or both terms. For example, the phrase \u201cA or B\u201d will be understood to include the possibilities of \u201cA\u201d or \u201cB\u201d or \u201cA and B.\u201d","As will be understood by one skilled in the art, for any and all purposes, such as in terms of providing a written description, all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves, thirds, quarters, fifths, tenths, etc. As a non-limiting example, each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third, middle third and upper third, etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as \u201cup to,\u201d \u201cat least,\u201d \u201cgreater than,\u201d \u201cless than,\u201d and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally, as will be understood by one skilled in the art, a range includes each individual member. Thus, for example, a group having 1-3 cells refers to groups having 1, 2, or 3 cells. Similarly, a group having 1-5 cells refers to groups having 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 cells, and so forth."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The following Detailed Description proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
