---
title: Broadband spiral transmission line phase shifting power splitter
abstract: A broadband power splitter and phase shifter having a plurality of transmission lines, a 3 db, zero degree power splitter for splitting a signal, an open quadrifilar spiral for receiving a first signal and reflecting power, a modified, open quadrifilar spiral for receiving a second output after a delay and for reflecting power, and wherein a difference between the reflected power from the open quadrifilar spiral and the modified, open quadrifilar spiral in conjunction with a delay provides a constant phase shift over a broad range of frequencies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08427387&OS=08427387&RS=08427387
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08427387
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","(1) FIELD OF THE INVENTION","(2) DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","None.","The present invention relates generally to transmission lines and more particularly, to broadband spiral transmission line phase shifting power splitters.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,133,891, hereby incorporated by reference, describes spiral transmission lines. This patent describes two spirals that are crossed to form two crossed transmission lines comprising elements for feeding and matching a quadrifilar helix. The two transmission lines are balanced and are of constant or smoothly changing characteristic impedance, Z, with length except for the last \u00bd of a turn of any given element on the outermost circumference. For a given transmission line length, the given filar has filars on both of its sides. However for the last \u00bd turn, the given filar has only one opposite filar, which is on the side closest to the feed points (the central region) of the spiral. This increases the Zof the transmission line along this \u00bd turn causing a mismatch.","The mismatch shows up as a small increased antenna mismatch when the transmission line is used to feed and match the antenna. If the width of the filar is increased in the area of the \u00bd turn to increase capacitance to the opposite filar, the Zbetween the \u00bd turn of filar and its opposite transmission line filar decreases back to normal. But now the capacitance between the opposite filar and its two surrounding opposite filars, which includes the widened \u00bd turn of filar, becomes larger than normal resulting in its Zbecoming lower than normal. Thus, this attempt at fixing the first mismatch of the \u00bd turns of filar creates a second mismatch.","The present invention features a broadband power device in the form of a phase shifting power splitter. A circuit in the broadband power device splits an incoming signal into two equal outputs. The first output is received by an open quadrifilar spiral, and the second output is received by a modified, open quadrifilar spiral. The open quadrifilar spiral and the modified, open quadrifilar spiral reflect their received powers. The phase difference between the power reflected from the open quadrifilar spiral and the modified, open quadrifilar spiral, with some delay, is broadband or occurs over a large bandwidth (e.g., 2:1).","A circuit , as illustrated in , according to the present invention incorporates an open quadrifilar spiral  and a modified, open quadrifilar spiral  into a broadband spiral transmission line power device . The broadband spiral transmission line power device  according to the present invention splits an incoming signal  into two signals separated by a phase that can be varied roughly from 0 to 180 degrees.","The open quadrifilar spiral  is known in the prior art and has four filars , , , and . A given pair of radially opposite filars form a spiral transmission line, thus with four filars separated by 90\u00b0 between adjacent filars, two spiral transmission lines separated by 90\u00b0 are formed. Filars  and  form transmission line T. Filars  and  form transmission line T. The quadrifilar has used feed points  for transmission lines T. Feed points  for transmission line T are not used. The open quadrifilar spiral  is approximately eight inches in width, and the filars , , , and  have a width of 0.975% of the available width at the feed points .","The modified, open quadrifilar spiral , along with some transmission line delay , according to the present invention is used as a phase shifter, when referenced to the first open quadrifilar spiral . The modified, open quadrifilar spiral  increases the capacitance between its filars.","The modified, open quadrifilar spiral , , has four filars, wherein all of the four filars , , ,  overlap their adjacent respective filars , , ,  for some part of their last \u00bc of a turn.","Each pair of radially opposite filars (i.e.,  &  and  & ) constitutes a transmission line T\u2032 and T\u2032, respectively. Ideally, the impedance of a normal open transmission line is an open circuit. For the unmodified spiral, however, it is a locus whose reflection coefficient phase oscillates a small amount with frequency about a true open at lower frequencies. At higher frequencies, the locus starts to settle in on a constant value of phase (the delay becomes constant). There are some radiation losses for either quadrifilar spiral at higher frequencies because either quadrifilar spiral starts to become electrically large.","The following description of the modified, open quadrifilar spiral  is limited to one filar of the spiral; however, the same modifications are made to the other 3 filars. A given filar  of transmission line T\u2032 of the modified, open quadrifilar spiral  has its last \u00bc turn modified as identified as portion C. Filar  of the modified \u00bc turn C is surrounded by opposite filars  and  of the transmission line T\u2032. An end  of one of the filars  of the transmission line T\u2032 has an initial width of 0.18 of the available width, which originally tapered down to 0 width at the end of the filar. The tapered section was removed. The other filar of the transmission line T\u2032 is . Filar  of transmission line T\u2032 is inserted between C and filar  of transmission line T\u2032. An overlap F is an area of overlap between the first filar  of the transmission line T\u2032 and the filar  of the transmission line T\u2032. The filars do not touch. There is a space between the two filars that in practice is realized by insertion of a thin layer of dielectric  between the two filars. The result is a distributed capacitance between the two filars in the overlap area F. The spiral  is fed across the two filars  and  at the center of the spiral at B.","An unexpected result occurs with the modified, open quadrifilar spiral . The roughly constant open circuit impedance locus before modification (i.e. when the quadrifilar spiral is in the form as illustrated in ) became after modification a roughly constant impedance locus at a reflection coefficient value of 0-j after a change in the impedance reference plane location. This demonstrates a broadband phase shift of ninety degrees. Varying the length of the overlap allowed other broadband phases. For instance, having no overlap gave 0 degrees. Larger overlaps gave phases larger than 90 degrees, approaching 180 degrees.","Referring again to , the circuit  incorporating the open quadrifilar spiral  and the modified, open quadrifilar spiral  into the broadband spiral transmission line power device  is shown. The broadband spiral transmission line phase shifting power divider device  splits the incoming signal  into two signals separated by roughly ninety or other degrees. The broadband spiral transmission line power device  receives the incoming signal  at an input . The incoming signal  travels from the input  to a 3 db power splitter . The 3 db power splitter is well known in the art. The power splitter  splits the incoming signal  into a first output  and a second output .","The first output  travels through a directional coupler  to a balun  to the open quadrifilar spiral . Reflected power from the open quadrifilar spiral  proceeds back through the balun  and into the directional coupler . A portion of the reflected power is received at a coupled port  of the directional coupler .","The second output  travels through a directional coupler \u2032, through a delay , and then to a balun \u2032 to the modified, open quadrifilar spiral . An enlarged view of the modified, open quadrifilar spiral  is shown in . Reflected power from the modified, open quadrifilar spiral  proceeds back through the balun \u2032, through the delay , and into the directional coupler \u2032. A portion of the reflected power is received at a coupled port \u2032 of the directional coupler \u2032, which has a 90\u00b0 or other degree phase shift relative to coupled port  of the directional coupler .","The delay  is a removal of a length of the connecting transmission line between directional coupler \u2032 and balun \u2032 needed for moving the reference plane a small distance beyond the overlap area F at the end of filar  in overlap area C, as if the end of the filar extended the small distance.","The difference in signals between the coupled port  and the coupled port \u2032 is a broadband 90\u00b0 or other degrees. Specifically, there is an approximately 90\u00b0 or other degree phase difference between the reflected signals of the open quadrifilar spiral , and the modified, open quadrifilar spiral  plus delay , providing an approximately constant phase shift over a broad range of frequencies. The open quadrifilar spiral  and the modified, open quadrifilar spiral  before modification have the same original dimensions to ensure broadband nature, so that the impedance with frequency about the open at the end of open quadrifilar spiral  occurs in the same manner as with the modified spiral before it is modified (i.e., one starts with identical spirals).","The broadband spiral transmission line phase shifting power divider device  illustrates a means for creating a broadband ninety or other degree power splitter. However, it has significant power loss due to the use of directional couplers. Referring to , in an alternative embodiment, the directional coupler  and the directional coupler \u2032 are replaced with circulators  and \u2032, so that all of the reflected power from the open quadrifilar spiral  and the modified, open quadrifilar spiral  end up at the reflection transfer ports  and \u2032 of the circulators corresponding to the coupled port  and the coupled port \u2032, respectively of the directional couplers.","In light of the above, it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be better understood in view of the following description of the invention taken together with the drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
