---
title: Driver circuit for gallium nitride (GaN) heterojunction field effect transistors (HFETs)
abstract: A driver circuit and integrated circuit implementation of a driver circuit for driving a GaN HFET device is disclosed. The driver circuit includes a resonant drive circuit having an LC circuit with an inductance and a capacitance. The capacitance of the LC circuit includes the gate-source capacitance of the GaN HFET device. The driver circuit further includes a level shifter circuit configured to receive a first signal and to amplify the first signal to a second signal suitable for driving a GaN HFET device. The resonant drive circuit is controlled based at least in part on the second signal such that the resonant drive circuit provides a first voltage to the GaN HFET device to control the GaN HFET device to operate in a conducting state and to provide a second voltage to the GaN HFET device to control the GaN HFET device to operate in a non-conducting state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08054110&OS=08054110&RS=08054110
owner: University of South Carolina
number: 08054110
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100120
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/205,316 filed Jan. 20, 2009, and claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/211,612 filed Apr. 1, 2009, both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties for all purposes.","The present invention was developed with funding from the Office of Naval Research under award N00014-07-1-0603; N00014-05-0734; and N00014-03-1-0940. Therefore, the government retains certain rights in this invention.","The present disclosure relates generally to gallium nitride (GaN) heterojunction field effect transistors (HFETs) and, more particularly, to a driver circuit and integrated circuit implementation of a driver circuit for GaN HFETs.","Research on wide-band III-Nitride semiconductor materials, such as GaN, has been rapidly developing in the past few years. These materials have unique properties, including high electron mobility, high saturation velocity, high sheet-carrier concentration at heterojunction interfaces, high breakdown voltages, low thermal impedance (when grown over SiC or bulk AlN substrates), chemical inertness, and radiation hardness.","Compared with Si FETs, GaN HFETs have lower specific on-resistance due to the high-density, two-dimensional electron gas, and high electron mobility. For instance, the on-resistance of GaN HFETs is almost three orders lower than that of Si MOSFETs. In addition, GaN HFETs can work at relatively high temperature ranges which Si MOSFETs cannot reach and have higher breakdown fields than Si MOSFETs due to the large bandgap energy of GaN material. III-Nitride transistors have been shown to operate at up to 300\u00b0 C. with no noticeable parameter degradation. III-Nitride transistors also have high breakdown voltages of up to, for instance, 1600V. Furthermore, the switching speeds of GaN HFETs are expected to be higher than those of Si MOSFETs due to low gate-source capacitance.","Both the relatively low gate-source capacitance and relatively low on-resistance of GaN HFETs provide for good switching characteristics. For instance, when applied to power electronics, the GaN HFETs allow for high power switching with sub-microsecond and nanosecond switching times. These properties make III-Nitride technology a promising approach for high-power, high-temperature, high-speed, and high-efficiency applications. Using insulated gate III-Nitride HFETs further increases achievable power levels and further improves high temperature stability. Because of the above characteristics, GaN HFETs would be extremely useful in industrial power electronic applications and would improve efficiency and regulation in, for instance, AC-DC and DC-DC power converters, DC-AC inverters, and other power electronic devices.","Currently, however, driver circuits for GaN HFET switches are not commercially available. The lack of available high-frequency driver circuits is one factor preventing the application of GaN HFETs in power electronic devices. Modified driver integrated circuits for power Si MOSFETs can be used to drive GaN HFET switches. Unfortunately, however, most modified driver circuits for power Si MOSFETs work at low frequencies, such as below 1 MHz. A few driver circuits are known to work at about 5 MHz, but the output impedance of these driver circuits is not compatible with GaN HFET devices and can lead to unnecessary power loss.","Conventional driver circuits typically include a pair of complementary devices, such as a pair of emitter followers in an AB class amplifier or PMOS and NMOS transistors in a totem pole configuration. These devices supply the charge needed to charge the gate-source capacitance of the power transistor to allow the transistor to turn on and off (i.e. switch between a conducting state and a non-conducting state). These approaches are well-suited for low frequency applications. However, when the frequency increases, neither the losses due to switching the driver circuit MOSFETs or the power transistor are acceptable.","Driver circuits capable of operating at high frequencies exist. Among these approaches, one of the most efficient is the resonant gate drive circuit. In a resonant gate drive circuit, switching loss reduction, critical in high frequency applications, is obtained by resonant transitions in an LC circuit that involves the gate-source capacitance of the power transistor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","100","120"],"sub":["iss ","iss","iss","iss ","R ","iss ","iss "]},"With reference to , the operation of the exemplary resonant drive circuit  will now be discussed beginning at the negative storage position when the gate-source voltage Vgs_M of power transistor  is approximately zero and when both PMOS transistor  and NMOS transistor  are turned off (i.e. are in a non-conducting state). At time t, when PMOS transistor  is turned on, the inductor current ibegins to flow and charges the gate-source capacitor Cof the power transistor . When the voltage across the gate-source capacitor Creaches a value slightly higher than VDD at t, the diode  conducts and clamps the gate-source voltage Vgs_M at VDD and the inductor current icontinues to flow freewheeling along diode . At time t, PMOS transistor  turns off causing the inductor current ito decrease. This causes the diode  to conduct and the inductor current ito flow from GND to VDD by way of diode , inductor L, and diode , thereby returning energy to the voltage source VDD. Between t and t, the inductor current idecreases from Ito zero and the gate source voltage Vgs_M remains at VDD.","At time t, the NMOS transistor  turns on and the inductor current ibegins to flow in the opposite direction, discharging the gate-source capacitance Cof the power transistor  until the voltage across gate-source capacitance Cis slightly less than zero at t. The diode  then conducts and clamps the gate-source voltage Vgs_M of power transistor  at zero as the inductor current icontinues to flow freewheeling along diode . At time t, when NMOS transistor  turns off, the inductor current increases, causing the diode  to conduct. The inductor current ithen flows from GND to VDD by way of diode , inductor Land diode , returning energy to the voltage source VDD. Between t and t, the inductor current iincreases from \u2212Ito zero and the gate-source voltage Vgs_M of the power transistor  remains at GND.","By using the LC resonant circuit topology discussed above and the two clamp diodes  and , the power losses of the driving circuit  can be reduced. Indeed, the smaller the gate resistance of power transistor , the smaller the power loss of the driver circuit . In addition, energy used for commutation can be recovered.","While the high efficiency drive circuit  of  is a suitable driver circuit for high-frequency applications and has the property of voltage clamping required for driving GaN HFETs, the resonant drive circuit  of  is not directly applicable to GaN HFET devices. For instance, GaN HFETs are zero voltage turn-on devices. In particular, GaN HFETs require a zero voltage to turn on (i.e. to be in a conducting state) and a negative voltage to turn off (i.e. to be in a non-conducting state). Therefore, a driver circuit for GaN HFETs must be able to work under a negative voltage supply VSSH and GND.","Moreover, GaN HFETs operating above 10 MHz demand a high-speed drive circuit with a 50 mA or higher output current. Most of the commercially available PMOS and NMOS transistors have much higher output current rates which are not compatible with GaN HFET devices and lead to unnecessary power loss. In addition, most commercially available power MOSFETs have long rise and fall times. For example, high frequency power MOSFETs have rise and fall times around 10 ns. Using a discrete power PMOS and NMOS as the totem pole pair for the drive circuit will add extra delay to the driver circuit and consequently limit the operation frequency of the drive circuit.","Thus, there is a need for a driver circuit and integrated circuit implementation of a driver circuit that is compatible with GaN HFETs that overcomes the above-mentioned disadvantages.","Aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the following description, or may be obvious from the description, or may be learned through practice of the invention.","One exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a driver circuit for driving a III-Nitride HFET device, such as a GaN HFET device. The driver circuit includes a resonant drive circuit having an LC circuit with an inductance and a capacitance. The capacitance of the LC circuit includes the gate-source capacitance of the III-Nitride HFET device. The driver circuit further includes a level shifter circuit configured to receive a first signal and to amplify the first signal to a second signal. The polarity of the second signal is different from the polarity of the first signal and the drive capability of the second signal can be increased. The resonant drive circuit is controlled based at least in part on the second signal such that the resonant drive circuit provides a first voltage to the III-Nitride HFET device to control the III-Nitride HFET device to operate in a conducting state and to provide a second voltage to the III-Nitride HFET device to control the III-Nitride HFET device to operate in a non-conducting state.","Variations and modifications can be made to this exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure.","These and other features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with reference to the following description and appended claims. The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and, together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention.","Reference now will be made in detail to embodiments of the invention, one or more examples of which are illustrated in the drawings. Each example is provided by way of explanation of the invention, not limitation of the invention. In fact, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For instance, features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used with another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment. Thus, it is intended that the present invention covers such modifications and variations as come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.","Generally, the present disclosure is directed to a driver circuit and integrated circuit implementation of a driver circuit that is suitable for driving GaN HFETs. The driver circuit uses a topology of a resonant drive circuit with effective energy recovery to provide low gate-driver loss, fast switching speed, voltage clamping, small cross-conduction power loss, and high tolerance of time variation of the control signals. The resonant drive circuit topology can be constituted by a high voltage (HV) NMOS and a HV PMOS connected in a totem pole configuration, clamping diodes, inductor, and the gate-source capacitance of a GaN HFET. The inductor can be the parasitic inductance of a conductor used in the driver circuit making the driver circuit free of magnetic components.","GaN HFET devices are zero voltage switch-on devices and need to be driven by a zero voltage to be turned on (i.e. driven to a conductive state) and a negative voltage to be turned off (i.e. be driven to a non-conductive state). For example, in particular implementations, a GaN HFET device needs a 0V signal to be driven to a conductive state and a \u22127V signal to be driven to a non-conductive state. As used herein, a transistor is considered to be in a conductive state when the transistor is controlled so that current flows between two terminals of the transistor, such as the drain terminal and the source terminal of the transistor. A transistor is considered to be in a non-conductive state when the transistor is controlled so that current does not flow between two terminals of the transistor, such as the drain terminal and the source terminal of the transistor.","To achieve the necessary driver signals for the GaN HFET device, driver circuits according to embodiments of the present disclosure include level shifter means for changing the polarity, voltage level, and current level of typical low power digital signals. The present disclosure provides numerous examples of level shifter circuitry that can act as level shifter means for changing the polarity, voltage level, and current level of the low power digital signals to the requisite driver signals required for a GaN HFET device. The term level shifter means is intended to encompass such disclosed level shifter circuitry as well as equivalents and variations thereof.","The driver circuit according to embodiments of the present disclosure provides numerous advantages. For instance, the use of a smart resonant topology, with effective energy-recovery, reduces the power loss of the circuit. The low-impedance path of the resonant circuit minimizes the conduction losses. The use of small pulse-width signals avoids the cross-conduction of the totem pole arrangement of the PMOS and NMOS transistors which provides further reduction of power loss in the circuit. The resonant inductor limits the switching power loss by slowing down the increase of the drain circuit of the GaN HFET device, which decreases the overlap between the drain current and the drain source voltage of the GaN HFET device. Moreover, the voltage clamped commutation makes the circuit tolerant to the timing variation of the control signals.","Referring now to , a first exemplary embodiment of a driver circuit  according to the present disclosure is illustrated. Driver circuit  includes a resonant drive circuit  and level shifter circuits  and . Resonant drive circuit  includes a totem pole arrangement of a PMOS transistor Mand NMOS transistor Mcoupled between a reference signal line GND and negative voltage source VSSH. An LC circuit having inductance Land capacitance Cis coupled to a junction between PMOS transistor Mand M. The inductance Lcan be the parasitic inductance of a conductor used in the LC circuit and capacitance Ccan be the gate-source capacitance of the GaN HFET device M. The resonant drive circuit  further includes a clamping diode Dcoupled to the LC circuit and PMOS transistor Mand a clamping diode Dcoupled to the LC circuit and the NMOS transistor M.","The resonant drive circuit  is controlled based on signals received from level shifter circuits  and . In particular, level shifter circuit  provides a signal to PMOS transistor Mto control PMOS transistor Mto either operate in a conducting state or a non-conducting state (i.e. turn on or turn off). Similarly, level shifter circuit  provides a signal to NMOS transistor Mto control NMOS transistor Mto operate in a conducting state or a non-conducting state (i.e. turn on or turn off).","When the PMOS transistor Mis in a conducting state and the NMOS transistor Mis in a non-conducting state, the resonant drive circuit  provides a first voltage, such as 0V, to the GaN HFET device, controlling the GaN HFET to operate in a conducting state. When the PMOS transistor Mis in a non-conducting state and the NMOS transistor Mis in a conducting state, the resonant drive circuit  provides a second voltage, such as \u22127V, to the GaN HFET device, controlling the GaN HFET to operate in a non-conducting state.","The level shifter circuits  and  are configured to change the polarity and to amplify the voltage and power level of input signals to provide signals suitable for driving the GaN HFET device M. For instance, as shown in , level shifter circuits  and  receive signals  and . Signals  and  are low voltage digital signals that can be provided from an FPGA or digital signal processor. The low voltage digital signals can alternate, for example, between a reference line voltage GND and VDD. In particular embodiments, GND can be about 0V and VDD can be about 3.3 V.","The level shifter circuits  and  convert signals  and  into signals  and  respectively. Signals  and  alternate between GND and VSSH. In particular embodiments, GND can be about 0V and VSSH can be about \u22127V. In this manner, level shifter circuits  and  convert low voltage digital signals into signals suitable for driving GaN HFET device M. In a particular embodiment, as illustrated in , level shifter circuits  and  can be operational amplifiers used to change the signals  and  to signals  and  with changed polarity and improved drive capability.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["300","312","314","1","2","302","304","312","314","312","322","314","324","322","324","310","332","334","340","342"],"sub":["R ","iss "]},"The GaN HFET device  can be similar to the GaN HFET device produced in a microelectronic laboratory at the University of South Carolina. In the experimental evaluation, a 100 \u03bcm wide AlGaN\/GaN HFET device built on sapphire was used in the driver circuit, which has a gate length of 2 \u03bcm, gate-to-drain distance of 10 \u03bcm and gate-to-source distance of 2 \u03bcm. The GaN HFET device has a measured current density of 0.8 A\/1 nm, breakdown voltage above 300V and dynamic on-resistance around 5 m\u03a9\u00b7cm2. The GaN HFET device is passivated with silicon nitride and has a field plate with an overhang length of 2 \u03bcm for the suppression of current collapse.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["310","300","312","314","322","324","312","314","312","314","322","324","300"]},"The above disadvantages can be overcome through an integrated circuit implementation of a driver circuit according to exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. An integrated circuit implementation allows for improved matching characteristics between the driver circuit and the GaN HFET device and can also reduce the time delay induced by the driver circuit. An integrated circuit implementation also reduces the size of the driver circuit and makes the application of the driver circuit to GaN HFET devices convenient as well.","Fabrication technology for high-speed digital integrated circuits has traditionally sought to reduce minimum feature size and gate oxide thickness to reduce power supply voltage requirements. However, this trend runs contrary to the demands of power electronic devices, which typically require much higher supply voltages than those used by digital integrated circuits.","Several existing technologies ingrate both, high-voltage (HV) analog and low-voltage (LV) digital circuits onto a single integrated circuit chip to achieve miniaturization, high efficiency, reliability, and low cost. For example, one existing technology for integrating both HV analog and digital circuits onto a single chip is the Smart-Voltage-eXtension (SVX) technology, which implements HV devices in standard CMOS technologies by combining existing layers without modifying process steps. The integrated circuit implementations of the exemplary driver circuits discussed below are implemented using SVX technology. However, those of ordinary skill in the art, using the disclosures provided herein, should understand that other suitable processes for combining HV analog and digital circuits onto a single chip can be used without deviating from the scope of the present disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["400","400","420","430","450","460","440","420","430","440","450","460","410"]},"Charge pump circuit  generates the negative high voltage VSSH required for the resonant drive circuit  from the positive low voltage power supply VDD. The digital block  converts the low voltage digital signal VDD into two narrow pulse-width control signals. The level shifter circuits  and  change the polarity and amplify the voltage and power level of the control signals. The amplified signals are used to drive the GaN HFET device  by way of resonant drive circuit , the detail and operation of which is discussed above. Proper values of inductance L, obtained by adjusting the length of the PCB wire and of C, the gate-source capacitance of the GaN HFET device , govern the resonant transition.","The level shifter circuits  and  are used to convert a positive signal with a GND to VDD voltage swing to a negative signal with a voltage swing from GND to VSSH. In a particular embodiment, level shifter circuits  and  can be two-stage level shifter circuits configured to change the polarity and amplify the control signals provided by digital block .","A block diagram of an exemplary two-stage level shifter circuit  is provided in . As illustrated, the two-stage level shifter circuit  includes three main parts, a first stage , a second stage , and a bias circuit . The first stage  is configured to receive signal  which alternates between GND and VDD and converts signal  into signal . Signal  alternates between VDD and VSSH. Second stage  is configured to receive signal  and convert signal  to signal . Signal  alternates between GND and VSSH. The bias circuit  provides all the bias voltages and currents for the second stage .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["510","500","510","1","11","11","12","2","14","14","13"]},"The driving signal of the gate of M_F is complementary to FL due to the cross-coupling of two voltage mirrors. Assuming the output voltage is always low enough to make M_F work in the saturation region, the NMOS transistor M_F, connected as a diode, always works in the saturated region.","The current mirror formed by M_F and M_F is used to generate the current for M_F and M_F. When M_F and M_F are the same size, a current equal to Iref will switch between M_F and M_F. Using three identical NMOS transistors for M_F, M_F, and M_F, the output voltage level of FL depends and can be fixed by the current flowing through M_F and M_F.","The possible deviation of the output voltage VOUT at the output FL is given by the tolerance of the low-voltage power supply, according the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"VOUT","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"VSSH","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["nI","ref"]},{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]}]}}},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"VSSH","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"n","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"VDD","mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}}},"mn":"2"}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]}}},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}}}},{"mi":["VSSH","VDD"],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}}}}},"Two high-voltage buffers are added to convert FL and FL_INV to high voltage-swing signals (negative VSSH to positive VDD). Since the input digital signals are about 3.3V, and there is a voltage drop at the current mirror node  shown in , low threshold-voltage HV transistors are preferably chosen for the input stage of the first stage low-current level shifter in order to guarantee the input transistor operating without dependence on the process variation and to reduce the transistor size for fast switching.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["520","500","16","15","1","3","4","11","12","5","6","13","14","1","1","2"],"sub":"tn"},"The operation of the second stage  is as follows: when  is active and high, the output is pulled down to VSSH by discharging the gate capacitance of the output NMOS device. When SH is active and high, SH is pulled up until M enters into weak inversion, thus charging the gate capacitance to VOUT. While the maximum voltage swing of SH is limited to VDD by the static level-shifter cell, its voltage level is maintained at (VSSH+VDD) by the current source I. The static value of I should be close to the minimum current required to keep M in weak inversion.","The \u201cBeta Multiplier Current Mirror\u201d  is used to generate the reference current. The size of NMOS transistors M, M, M and M is preferably carefully chosen so that the voltage swing of the output signal SH is VDD, according to the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"VOUT","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"VSSH","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["nI","ref"]}},"msub":{"mi":["K","n"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"6"}}},{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"14"}}}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"14"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}}],"mo":["+","+","-"]}}}}}},"br":{},"o":"SH"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["400","500","450","460","1","2","2","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["600","600","640","644","642","610","620","630","650"]},"Since a driver circuit according to embodiments of the present disclosure can includes two identical level shifters, the use of mirror-image placements for the cells  and  provides advantages. First, it will save layout efforts, since the same layout can be used for both level shifters. Second, it will ensure that the two level shifters will have good matching between each other and, consequently, similar electrical characteristics.","The large amount of output current, i.e. 50 mA, required to drive the GaN HFET devices at 10 MHz, forces the use of layout techniques peculiar to high-current circuits. In particular the routing of the high-current leads represents an important aspect for the reliability of the circuit. Normally, electromigration sets a lower limit on the width of a high-current lead, but metal resistance often forces the use of much wider leads. All high-current leads are preferably kept as short as possible to reduce unnecessary metal resistance. The exemplary layout of the high-current power leads VSSH and GND of  make sure that these two leads can access all the related cells easily and with short lengths.","The pulse generator  and two buffers  are included in the digital block . The digital block  is powered by the LV power supply, VDD. In order to obtain good isolation between the digital and the analog part of the circuit, floating LV-devices instead of substrate based LV-devices can be used for the LV digital circuit. This can provide several advantages because floating devices are more robust against substrate noise; substrate based LV-devices can generate substrate noise; substrate based LV-devices can collect substrate currents; the area penalty for floating logic is negligible; and substrate based LV-devices need additional layers (Standard NTUB and PTUB) for isolation.","Referring now to , a block diagram of an integrated circuit implementation of a driver circuit  according to another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure will be discussed in detail. Driver circuit  includes resonant drive circuit , digital block , and level shifter circuits  and . The totem pole arrangement and clamping diodes of resonant drive circuit , along with digital block , and level shifter circuits  and , are implemented on an integrated circuit  using SVX technology.","The digital block  converts the low voltage digital signal VDD into two narrow pulse-width control signals. The level shifters  and  change the polarity and amplify the voltage and power level of the control signals. The amplified signals are used to drive the GaN HFET device  by way of resonant drive circuit , the detail and operation of which is discussed above. Proper values of inductance L, obtained by adjusting the length of the PCB wire and of C, the gate-source capacitance of the GaN HFET device, govern the resonant transition.","The level shifter circuits  and  are used to convert a positive signal with a GND to VDD voltage swing to a negative signal with a voltage swing from GND to VSSH. In a particular embodiment, level shifter circuits  and  can be two-stage level shifter circuits configured to change the polarity and amplify the control signals provided by digital block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["800","800","810","820","830","810","802","802","812","812","820","812","812","822","822","830","810"]},"A circuit diagram of one exemplary two-stage level shifter circuit  is illustrated in . A current mirror topology is used to bias the first stage (level shifter cell). The reference current Iref is generated by means of three transistors: M_F, M_F and M_F. The size of M_F is adjusted to obtain required reference current Iref calculated approximately by the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["I","ref"]},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F9"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["V","GS"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F9"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F9"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"VDD","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}]}}},"br":{},"b":["7","8","11","14","1","2"]},"The first stage or level shifter stage comprises two coupled voltage mirrors. One voltage mirror includes an HV PMOS M_F, together with a low-voltage NMOS M_F connected in a diode configuration as the load. In parallel to M_F, a pull-down transistor M_F is necessary to drive the output voltage to a high-voltage power supply VSSH in the low state. The other voltage mirror includes a HV PMOS M_F with a low-voltage NMOS M_F connected as the load. M_F is connected in parallel to M_F. The driving signal of the gate of M_F must be complementary to FL due to cross-coupling of the two voltage mirrors.","Assuming the output voltage is always low enough to bias M_F in the saturation region, the NMOS transistor M_F, connected as a diode, always works in the saturated region. Choosing the same size for transistors M_F and M_F, the current flowing through transistor M_F, calculated by the following equation, will be equal to Iref.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"I","mrow":{"mi":"M_F","mo":"\u2062","mn":"14"}},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F14"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["V","GS"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F14"}},"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F14"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"V","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"FL","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}},"mo":["-","-"],"mi":"VSSH","msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}]}}}},"Since I=Iref, solving the above equation, the output voltage for signal FL, is provided as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"V","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"FL","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"VSSH","mo":["+","+"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["nI","ref"]}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F14"}}]}},"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}],"mo":"="}}}},"Solving the above equations, the following equation is obtained:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"V","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"FL","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"VSSH","mo":["+","+"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["nI","ref"]}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]}}},"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mi":"VSSH","mo":["+","+"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"n","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F9"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}]},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"VDD","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}},"mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F14"}}]}},"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}}}}]}}}},"Using three identical NMOS transistors for M_F, M_F, and M_F, the output voltage level of FL and FL_INV can be fixed by the current flowing through M_F and M_F. The possible deviation of the output voltage is given by the tolerance of the low-voltage power supply, according to the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"V","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"FL","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"VSSH","mo":["+","+"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"n","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F9"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}]},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"VDD","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}},"mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"M_F14"}}]}},"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mi":"VSSH","mo":["+","+"],"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"n","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"n"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"VDD","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}},"mn":"2"}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]}}},"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mi":["VSSH","VDD"],"mo":"+"}}}}]}}}},"The voltage swing of the output signals can be affected by other factors such as matching of transistors M_F, M_F and M_F, matching between transistors M_F and M_F, etc. However, this kind of deviation can be reduced by a good layout design.","The low level of the input digital signals (3.3V) and the voltage drop at the current mirror node , as shown in , increase the importance of the choice of the input transistor in the stage. To provide the correct operation of the circuit and to reduce the transistor size for fast switching, low threshold-voltage HV transistors are preferably chosen for the input stage of the first stage low-current level shifter. As shown in , most transistors in the circuit are low-voltage (LV) transistors. Also, the current of the circuit is low and only two small size HV transistors are required for the input transistors. All these characteristics make the circuit suitable for high frequency operation.","A HV buffer stage, which works under the voltage VSSH and GND, is added after the first-stage level-shifter cell to change the voltage level and the drive capability of the control signals. The buffer stage is composed of a pair of thick gate-oxide PMOS transistors M_F and M_F and a pair of thick gate-oxide NMOS transistors M_F and M_F. For obtaining a specific value of output current, higher gate-source voltage means smaller transistor sizes, so higher operation speed. The sizes of the transistors and the stages of the buffer can be adjusted according to the required drive current and speed. Consequently, this buffer stage with high gate-source voltage increases the drive capability of the signals and maintains a high operation frequency at the same time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 15","FIG. 15","FIG. 15","FIG. 16"],"b":["800","815","1","2","800"]},"As shown in , the current mirror is removed in this level shifter. The sources of the input transistors are directly connected to the positive power supply VDD to eliminate the turn-on failure risk due to the voltage drop at node  of  and the large threshold voltages of the input transistors. The cross-coupled pair (M_F, M_F and M_F, M_ of ) is split up into two parts (M_F, M_F, M_F, M_F and M_F, M_F, M_F, M_F of ) in order to obtain a the voltage swing from VSSH to VSSH+VDD for FL and FL_INV and to maintain a voltage drop as low as possible across the splitting voltage mirror pair so that the input transistors always work at the saturation region and low-voltage transistors can be used in the voltage mirror to obtain high operation speed. However, the sizes for all the transistors in the exemplary embodiment of  need to be carefully selected to obtain required output voltage and current.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 17"],"b":["800","800","16","15","1","3","4","11","12","5","6","13","14","2"]},"The operation of level shifter circuit  of  is as follows: when  is active and high, the output is pulled down to VSSH by discharging the gate capacitance of the output NMOS device. When SH is active and high, SH is pulled up until M enters into weak inversion, thus charging the gate capacitance to VOUT. While the maximum voltage swing of SH is limited to VDD by the static level-shifter cell, its voltage level is maintained at (VSSH+VDD) by the current source I. The static value of I should be close to the minimum current required to keep M in weak inversion.","The \u201cBeta Multiplier Current Mirror\u201d  is used to generate the reference current. The size of NMOS transistors M, M, M and M needs to be carefully chosen so that the voltage swing of the output signal SH is VDD, according to the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"VOUT","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"VSSH","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["nI","ref"]}},"msub":{"mi":["K","n"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"6"}}},{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"14"}}}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"14"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}}],"mo":["+","+","-"]}}}}}},"br":{},"o":"SH"},"For this stage the same bias circuit used in  is chosen for the low standby-current level shifter. The voltage swing of the output signal SH can be calculated according to the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"V","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"SH"}},{"mi":"VSSH","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["nI","ref"]}},"msub":{"mi":["K","n"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"6"}}},{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"14"}}}],"mo":"+"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"14"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}}],"mo":["+","+","-"]}}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"V","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"SH"}},{"mi":"VSSH","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":"[","mrow":{"mrow":{"msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"n","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["K","n"]},{"mi":"S","mn":"9"}],"mo":"\u2062"},"msub":{"mn":"2","mi":"n"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"VDD","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"9"}}}},"mn":"2"}},"msub":{"mi":["K","n"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"6"}}},{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"14"}}}],"mo":"+"}}},"mo":"+"}}}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":{},"mo":["\u2062","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"14"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}}],"mo":["+","-"]}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mi":"VSSH","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":"[","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"VDD","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"9"}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"6"}}},{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"14"}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":["*","*"],"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":"S","mn":"9"}}},"mo":"+"}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":{},"mo":["\u2062","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"14"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"tn","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}}],"mo":["+","-"]}}}}]}}}},"Three identical type and size of NMOS transistors are chosen for M, M, and M, and same type and \u00bc size of NMOS transistor is used for M_F of . Using these parameters, a voltage swing of VDD can be obtained by the low standby-current level shifter, as shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"V","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"SH"}},{"mi":"VSSH","mo":"+","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"VDD","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mi":"S"}},{"mn":"1","msqrt":{"mi":"S"}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":["*","*"],"msqrt":{"mrow":{"mi":"S","mo":"\/","mn":"4"}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["V","tn"]}}],"mo":["+","+","-"]}}}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mi":["VSSH","VDD"],"mo":"+"}}}}]}}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":["FIGS. 18 and 19","FIG. 15","FIG. 16"],"b":["1","2"]},"In , the input signal S_IN is an external 3.3V LV control signal, and the pulse generator changes this signal to two small pulse-width signals with the same voltage levels. In , two external small pulse-width signals, S_IN and S_IN, are selected directly as the inputs by the digital block. These small pulse-width signals are output to the two-stage level shifters and transformed into two HV signals HV_PMOS and HV_NMOS, which have the voltage-swing from \u22127V to 0V. Finally, these two HV signals are used to drive the HV PMOS and HV NMOS transistors of the resonant drive circuit and OUT_DRV\/OUT_DRV are the output drive signals from the drive circuit, which are used to drive the GaN HFET devices. The loads for both of the drive circuits are capacitors which have a comparable value with the input capacitance of the GaN HFET devices targeted to drive. Both of the drive circuits provide a 50 mA output drive current.  shows the simulation waveforms for Driver Circuit  and Driver Circuit  when they have one input control signal and have the operation frequency at 10 MHz.  shows the simulation waveforms for Driver Circuit  and Driver Circuit  when they choose two external control signals as their inputs and work at 20 MHz.","As shown in , the simulation forecasts reveal that both, Driver Circuit  and Driver Circuit , work well at 10 MHz and higher and have similar rise time, fall time and delay time. The rise time is about 3 ns, fall time is nearly 3 ns, and delay time is around 5 ns.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["900","940","944","942","910","920","950"]},"Since a driver circuit according to embodiments of the present disclosure can include two identical level shifters, the use of mirror-image placements for the cells  and  provides advantages. First, it will save layout efforts, since the same layout can be used for both level shifters. Second, it will ensure that the two level shifters will have good matching between each other and, consequently, similar electrical characteristics.","The large amount of output current, i.e. 50 mA, required to drive the GaN HFET devices at 10 MHz, forces the use of layout techniques peculiar to high-current circuits. In particular the routing of the high-current leads represents an important aspect for the reliability of the circuit. Normally, electromigration sets a lower limit on the width of a high-current lead, but metal resistance often forces the use of much wider leads. All high-current leads are preferably kept as short as possible to minimize unnecessary metal resistance. The exemplary layout of the high-current power leads VSSH and GND of  make sure that these two leads can access all the related cells easily and with short lengths.","The pulse generator  and two buffers  are included in the digital block . The digital block  is powered by the LV power supply, VDD. In order to obtain good isolation between the digital and the analog part of the circuit, floating LV-devices instead of substrate based LV-devices can be used for the LV digital circuit. This can provide several advantages because floating devices are more robust against substrate noise; substrate based LV-devices can generate substrate noise; substrate based LV-devices can collect substrate currents; the area penalty for floating logic is negligible; and substrate based LV-devices need additional layers (Standard NTUB and PTUB) for isolation.","This written description uses examples to disclose the invention, including the best mode, and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention, including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims, and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they include structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims, or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A full and enabling disclosure of the present invention, including the best mode thereof, directed to one of ordinary skill in the art, is set forth in the specification, which makes reference to the appended figures, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 20"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
