---
title: Electrochemical energy storage device based on carbon dioxide as electroactive species
abstract: An electrochemical energy storage device comprising a primary positive electrode, a negative electrode, and one or more ionic conductors. The ionic conductors ionically connect the primary positive electrode with the negative electrode. The primary positive electrode comprises carbon dioxide (CO) and a means for electrochemically reducing the CO. This means for electrochemically reducing the COcomprises a conductive primary current collector, contacting the CO, whereby the COis reduced upon the primary current collector during discharge. The primary current collector comprises a material to which COand the ionic conductors are essentially non-corrosive. The electrochemical energy storage device uses COas an electroactive species in that the COis electrochemically reduced during discharge to enable the release of electrical energy from the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08389178&OS=08389178&RS=08389178
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08389178
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100910
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Primary Positive Electrode","Negative Electrode","One or More Ionic Conductors","FIG. A and FIG. B","FIG. A and FIG. B","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. ","FIG. A and FIG. B"],"p":["The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357, between the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and UChicago Argonne LLC.","Not Applicable.","The present invention relates to high capacity rechargeable electrochemical energy storage devices. More specifically, the invention relates to the use of carbon dioxide as electroactive species in such devices.","Efficient energy storage is one of the most important challenges on the way to building an economy that is less dependent on fossil fuel resources. Current implementations of electrochemical energy storage devices, such as batteries, supercapacitors, and fuel cells, use a variety of electroactive species. Common examples include lead-acid (Pb and HSO), nickel-cadmium (NiOOH and Cd), nickel-zinc (NiOOH and Zn), lithium-ion (various Li compounds), and nickel-metal hydride (NiOOH and various intermetallic compounds).","Metal-air batteries, and more specifically lithium-air batteries, are thought of as key enablers of electric vehicles, largely because of their very high energy densities. However, currently, metal-air batteries are unable to meet the conditions required for practical vehicle applications. Existing lithium-air battery designs are plagued with lithium oxide (LiO) and lithium peroxide (LiO) clogging the pores of the air-electrode, thus limiting discharging capacity. Additionally, moisture or nitrogen from the air may cause hazardous reactions. Furthermore, lithium-air batteries suffer from unproven recharge capability, limited lithium resources, and environmentally hazardous construction.","The electrolytes utilized in electrochemical energy storage devices are also significant to device performance. Typical electrolytic solutions consist of ion-forming solutes dissolved in water or organic solvents. Many of these electrolytes are toxic or flammable, further adding to the hazards of device construction, use, and disposal. U.S. Pat. No. 7,579,117 attempts to address these problems by suggesting the use of supercritical carbon dioxide (CO) as a solvent. Although successfully applying supercritical COas a solvent, U.S. Pat. No. 7,579,117 requires another electroactive species, stressing that the supercritical COis virtually inert, and does not react with other elements in the electrochemical cell.","These implementations suffer from a variety of disadvantages, including low energy density; harmful environmental impact in construction, use, and disposal; inefficiency in charging or discharging; and safety hazards during use, including risk of fire or explosion if misused or punctured.","An electrochemical energy storage device comprising a primary positive electrode, a negative electrode, and one or more ionic conductors. The ionic conductors ionically connect the primary positive electrode with the negative electrode. The primary positive electrode comprises carbon dioxide (CO) and a means for electrochemically reducing the CO. This means for electrochemically reducing the COcomprises a conductive primary current collector, contacting the CO, whereby the COis reduced upon the primary current collector during discharge. The primary current collector comprises a material to which COand the ionic conductors are essentially non-corrosive.","The electrochemical energy storage device uses COas an electroactive species in that the COis electrochemically reduced to enable the release of electrical energy from the device. The electrochemical reduction of COoccurs during discharge of the device.","An electrochemical energy storage device comprising a primary positive electrode, a negative electrode, and one or more ionic conductors. The primary positive electrode comprises carbon dioxide (CO) and a means for electrochemically reducing the CO. This means for electrochemically reducing the COcomprises a conductive primary current collector, contacting the CO, whereby the COis reduced upon the primary current collector during discharge. The primary current collector comprises a material to which COand the ionic conductors are essentially non-corrosive. The negative electrode comprises a material having an electrode potential more negative than the electrode potential of the primary positive electrode. The ionic conductors ionically connect the primary positive electrode with the negative electrode.","The electrochemical energy storage device uses COas an electroactive species in that the COis electrochemically reduced to enable the release of electrical energy from the device. The electrochemical reduction of COoccurs during discharge of the device.","The primary positive electrode comprises CO, as an electroactive species, and a means for electrochemically reducing the CO. This reduction means comprises a primary current collector, which contacts the CO, whereby an electrical potential may be applied through the primary current collector to the CO. The COmay be supplied externally, or may be provided internally by inclusion within the ionic conductors.","Preferably, the partial pressure of COis elevated to approximately the maximum level that may be maintained without leakage or damage to the device. Higher partial pressure of COmay be advantageous because, first, it represents a more concentrated form of CO, thus increasing the electrical capacity of the device. Second, at higher pressure, diffusion is increased, allowing for faster discharging and charging. Third, increased pressure typically helps to achieve better selectivity for oxalate and formate production when the COis reduced, which is favorable for rechargeability. Fourth, increased pressure typically promotes higher current efficiency. Fifth, with increasing pressure the reduction potential of COshifts toward substantially more positive values, even slightly above zero (with respect to the standard hydrogen electrode), resulting in increased cell voltage. In a preferred embodiment, the COis supercritical.","The primary current collector comprises a conductive material to which COand the ionic conductors are essentially non-corrosive under the temperature and pressure environment of the electrochemical energy storage device. Essentially non-corrosive means that throughout a period of several years, corrosion of the primary current collector is insufficient to substantively affect the performance of the primary current collector. The primary current collector contacts the CO, whereby electrons may be conducted through the primary current collector to the reducing COduring discharging. The primary current collector also contacts one of the ionic conductors, whereby electrons may be conducted through the primary current collector from the oxidizing COreduction products during charging. Preferably, the surface area of the primary current collector is maximized to provide maximum contact with both the COand the ionic conductor.","If the COis supplied externally, then the primary current collector preferably comprises a gas-diffusion electrode, which allows the passage of CO, but prevents the passage of the ionic conductors. Such gas-diffusion electrodes preferably comprise an electrically conducting macroporous network filled with a mix of microporous conducting material. Examples include sintered conductive powders, such as copper powder or graphite powder. Additional examples include metal-solid polymer electrolyte mixtures, which comprise metal particles embedded in a matrix formed by a porous polymer, such as polytetrafluoroethylene. Preferably, gas-diffusion electrodes further comprise a catalyst.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["7","7","1","2","2","3","2","1","2","1","3","2","1","4","4","5","4","5","1","2","3","2","1","2","2","1","4","4","1"],"sub":["2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 "]},"If the COis provided internally, then the primary current collector need not allow the passage of CO. Preferably, the primary current collector in this embodiment comprises copper, tin, lead, indium, nickel, carbon, alloys thereof, or combinations thereof. The primary current collector is preferably porous, or otherwise has a structure maximizing surface area. In a preferred embodiment, the primary current collector comprises a copper plate with its surface comprising aligned nanorods, similar to the structure shown in P. L. Taberna et al., O---5 Nat. Materials 567, 568 (2006), hereby fully incorporated by reference. Copper is advantageous because it is highly conductive, mechanically stable, and inexpensive. The nanorod structure is advantageous because it provides a copper structure with a high surface area in a small volume. In another embodiment, the surface of a copper primary current collector is covered with a thin layer of one of the more expensive materials listed above. Preferably, the surface of the current collector is covered with a thin catalytic layer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["7","6","7","1","6","3","6","1","5","6","1","3","6","1","4","4","5","4","5","1","6","3","6","1","5","6","1","4","4","1"],"sub":["2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 ","2 "]},"The negative electrode comprises a conductive material. The negative electrode has an electrode potential more negative than that of the primary positive electrode, such that an electrical conductor connecting the positive electrode to the negative electrode, without any externally applied electrical potential, would carry current in the direction from the positive electrode to the negative electrode until the device is completely discharged. In one embodiment, the negative electrode comprises a material capable of reversibly oxidizing to form a cation, which then ionically neutralizes the COreduction product. Preferably, the negative electrode in this embodiment comprises lithium, beryllium, aluminum, zinc, sodium, magnesium, titanium, combinations thereof, or alloys thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the negative electrode comprises lithium. Lithium is advantageous because it exhibits a very high energy density and a very negative electrode potential.","In another embodiment, the negative electrode comprises a negative current collector and an electroactive gas. The negative current collector comprises a conductive material to which the ionic conductors and the electroactive gas of the negative electrode are essentially non-corrosive under the temperature and pressure environment of the electrochemical energy storage device. The negative electrode has an electrode potential more negative than that of the primary positive electrode. Thus, during discharge, the gas electrochemically oxidizes to a cation upon the negative current collector. The cation then ionically neutralizes the COreduction product. In a preferred embodiment, the electroactive gas of the negative electrode comprises hydrogen. In a preferred embodiment, the negative current collector comprises a gas-diffusion electrode permeable to hydrogen.","In another embodiment, the negative electrode comprises a material to which the ionic conductors and any chemical species present therein are essentially non-corrosive. In this embodiment, a capacitive double layer forms at the surface of the negative electrode during charging. The capacitive double layer breaks down during discharge, creating an electrochemical discharge. Thus, the negative electrode exhibits an electrode potential more negative than the electrode potential of the primary positive electrode. In a preferred embodiment, the negative electrode comprises an aluminum plate with its surface comprising aligned nanorods, similar to the structure shown in P. L. Taberna et al., O---5 Nat. Materials 567, 568 (2006). Aluminum is advantageous because it is highly conductive, mechanically stable, and inexpensive. The nanorod structure is advantageous because it provides an aluminum structure with a high surface area in a small volume. The negative electrode in this preferred embodiment further comprises an oxide layer covering the surface of the negative electrode to a depth of less than about twenty-five monomolecular layers. Such an oxide layer results from exposure of the aluminum to air. This thin oxide layer is advantageous, because it helps to ensure that the negative electrode does not chemically react with the chemical species present in the ionic conductors.","The one or more ionic conductors comprise materials capable of allowing the transport of ions between the primary current collector and the negative electrode. In one embodiment, the ionic conductor comprises an electrolytic fluid contacting both the primary current collector and the negative electrode. Preferably, this electrolytic fluid comprises an ionic liquid, an organic electrolyte, or an aqueous solution. Ionic liquids are especially advantageous in embodiments utilizing a negative electrode comprising an electroactive metal, because ionic liquids provide electrodeposition of smooth, compact metal surfaces during charging. In a preferred embodiment, the ionic conductor comprises an ionic liquid with a melting point depression when exposed to the COin the device. Examples of such ionic liquids include tetrabutyl ammonium tetrafluoroborate (TBABF) and other ionic liquids listed in Aaron M. Scurto et al., 47 Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 493, 497-98 (2008), hereby fully incorporated by reference. Ionic liquids that exhibit a melting point depression in the presence of pressurized COare advantageous for safety reasons; if the device breaks, allowing escape of the COfrom the system, the ionic liquid will quickly solidify, preventing contamination of the environment, and encasing the potentially hazardous materials composing the negative electrode. Further, ionic liquids can be solidified by cooling during device storage, to reduce self-discharge of the device. Ionic liquids exhibiting a melting point depression in the presence of pressurized COmay alternatively be solidified simply by evacuation of the CO.","In another embodiment, the ionic conductor comprises an electrolytic solution comprising COas a solvent. The temperature and pressure of the COmust be such that the COis in a liquid or supercritical state, so as to act as a solvent. Supercritical COis preferred, because increased temperature and pressure generally improve solubility and increase diffusion rates. Because COis itself an electrical insulator, the solution also comprises an electrolyte. The solution may also comprise a polar modifier to improve solubility of the electrolyte within the CO. If the polar modifier used is protic, such as water, for example, then the supporting electrolyte is preferably chosen to preserve the pH of the solution, typically resulting in reduction of the COto formates. Examples of such electrolytes include alkali carbonates or hydrocarbonates and ammonium or quaternary ammonium salts. If the polar modifier used is aprotic, such as 1,1,1,2,-tetrafluoroethane (HFC 134a), for example, then the supporting electrolyte is preferably chosen to preserve the aproticity of the solution, typically resulting in reduction of the COto oxalates. Such electrolytes include ionic liquids and deep eutectic solvents, and preferred examples include TBABF, and other quaternary-ammonium salts, such as oxalates, carbonates, hexafluorophosphates, tetraphenylborates, similar imidazolium salts, alkali salts of organic carbonates, and chelate complexes. Preferably, the polar modifier and the electrolyte are electroinactive within the system, or intentionally electroactive (e.g. water takes part in the formation of formates by providing protons). In this embodiment, the electrolytic solution contacts both the primary current collector and the negative electrode. Thus, the liquid or supercritical COof the electrolytic solution provides an abundant source of COfor reduction at the primary current collector.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["51","52","53","51","55","54","52","53","51"],"sub":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["56","52","57","53","58","56","57","57","57","58","55","56","57","54","55","56","57","54","56","58","55","58"],"sub":["2","2 ","2 "]},"This embodiment reduces self-discharge where the negative electrode  comprises a material that is highly reactive with CO. Further, the cation  and COreduction product  may be more soluble in the electrolytic solution  than in the second electrolyte , resulting in less precipitation of salts from the electrolytic solution  than from the second electrolyte . Thus, this embodiment reduces clogging of the pores of the primary current collector  resulting from the precipitation of salts upon the primary current collector , when compared with an embodiment utilizing only the second electrolyte.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2B"],"b":["59","56","54","55","59","59","58","52","58","59","55","54"],"sub":["2 ","2 "],"i":"Capture of carbon dioxide from ambient air, "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"],"b":["11","15","22","12","16","12","12"],"sub":"2 "},"The negative electrode  comprises an electrically conductive structure with a surface that does not essentially corrode in the presence of the electrolyte  or its components, or of CO. In one embodiment, the negative electrode  comprises the same materials and structure as the primary current collector . In an alternative embodiment, the negative electrode  comprises different materials, structure, or both than the primary current collector . Preferably, the negative electrode  is porous, or has a structure otherwise maximizing surface area. Maximizing the surface area of the negative electrode  is advantageous to provide maximum contact with the electrolyte .","The electrolyte  comprises a cation that does not reduce under the application of the electrical potential applied during charging, and an anion that is capable of reversibly oxidizing to carbon dioxide. Preferably, the anion is oxalate, formate, or carbonate. While the electrical potential applied during charging depends on the choice of anion, preferably the cation does not reduce under the application of a negative electrical potential with a magnitude of less than about 6 V with respect to the standard hydrogen electrode. Preferably, the cation is tetrabutyl ammonium or another quaternary ammonium or phosphonium cation.","During charging, a negative electrical potential is applied to the negative electrode , and a positive electrical potential is applied to the primary current collector . The potential difference is sufficient to cause the anion to electrochemically oxidize to CO upon the primary current collector , providing a flow of electrons out of the device through the primary current collector . In the embodiment of , the CO escapes the device through the primary current collector , which is a gas-diffusion electrode. In the embodiment of , the CO dissolves in the electrolyte  for use as the electroactive species of the primary positive electrode during discharge. In both embodiments, the cation does not reduce under the electrical potential applied during charging, but migrates to the surface of the negative electrode , creating a positive charge layer  upon the surface of the negative electrode . Because the negative electrode  does not react with the cation, the positive charge layer  induces a negative charge layer  within the surface of the negative electrode . This results in a capacitive double charge layer at the surface of the negative electrode  that remains after the charging electrical potential is removed from the device. Thus, the negative electrode  has an electrode potential more negative than the electrode potential of the primary positive electrode .","During discharge, the negative charge layer  within the negative electrode  provides a flow of electrons out of the device from the negative electrode . Electrons flowing into the device through the primary current collector  allow the electrochemical reduction of the CO to the anion. In the embodiment of , the CO is externally supplied through the primary current collector , which is a gas-diffusion electrode in the embodiment depicted in . In the embodiment of , the CO is supplied by the CO that dissolves in the electrolyte  during charging. In both embodiments, the anion then ionically neutralizes the cation, eventually resulting in an electrically neutral discharged device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"],"b":["17","18","19","20"],"sub":"2 "},"The negative electrode  preferably comprises an aluminum plate with its surface comprising aligned nanorods, similar to the structure shown in P. L. Taberna et al., O---5 Nat. Materials 567, 568 (2006), and an insulating oxide (AlO) layer covering the surface of the aluminum to a depth of less than about twenty-five monomolecular layers, as discussed above.","The primary current collector  comprises a gas-diffusion electrode containing a catalyst favorable for electrochemically reducing COto a desired reduction product, and a catalyst favorable for electrochemically oxidizing that reduction product to CO. Preferably, the COreduction product comprises oxalate. Preferably, the catalysts favorable for electrochemically reducing COto oxalate comprise transition metals, transition metal nitrides, transition metal carbides, and organometallic compounds. Examples of such catalysts are discussed in M. Jitaru et al., 27 J. Applied Electrochemistry 875-889 (1997); R. P. S. Chaplin and A. A. Wragg, 33 J. Applied Electrochemistry 1107-1123 (2003); Jean-Michel Sav\u00e9ant, 108 Chem. Revs. 2348-2378 (2008); Eric E. Benson et al., 2 38 Chem. Socy. Revs. 89-99 (2009); Dong-Jim Ham et al., 2 Energies 873-899 (2009); Raja Angamuthu et al., 327 Science 313-315 (2010), each hereby fully incorporated by reference. Preferably, the catalysts favorable for electrochemically oxidizing oxalate to COcomprise transition metals, transition metal carbides, transition metal nitrides, and transition metal oxides. Examples of such catalysts are discussed in Rakesh K. Pandey and V. Lakshminarayanan, --113 J. Physical Chem. C 21596-21603 (2009); Wang X. et al., -() 562 J. Electroanalytical Chem. 73-80 (2004); J. Marsen et al., 71 Can. J. Chem. Engr. 218-225 (1993); Biljana Sljukic et al., 19 Electroanalysis 918-922 (2007), each hereby fully incorporated by reference. In a preferred embodiment, the oxidizing catalyst comprises PbOand a precious metal.","The electrolyte  comprises an ionic liquid comprising the cation and anion discussed in the description of . Ionic liquids are advantageous for the reasons discussed above. Preferably, the ionic liquid comprises bis tetrabutyl-ammonium oxalate ([N(CH)]CO).","The outer container  contains the pressurized CO, and comprises a material to which the pressurized CO is essentially non-corrosive, and that is capable of containing the pressurized CO without leakage. In one embodiment, the outer container  comprises steel.","The selective membrane  is permeable to the pressurized CO and to the anion, but is not permeable to the remainder of the electrolyte . The selective membrane  contacts and encases the negative electrode  and the electrolyte , thus separating them from the primary current collector . This separation prevents the pores of the primary current collector from being clogged by the ionic liquid.","The pressurized CO, located primarily within the channel between the outer container  and the selective membrane , serves as a reservoir for CO. This is provided to be electrochemically reduced during discharge, in case some of the anion electrochemically oxidizes to carbon monoxide (CO) or oxygen (O), rather than CO, during charging. Further, if the electrolyte  comprises an ionic liquid that exhibits a melting point depression when exposed to pressurized CO, then the pressurized CO also prevents the electrolyte  from solidifying as the cation and anion form a salt during discharge.","The pressure relief valve  is a safety feature to prevent damage in case of uncontrolled elevated pressure. The pressure relief valve  comprises a valve that opens automatically or manually, allowing discharge of the pressurized CO if the COpressure exceeds a pressure that can be safely contained by the outer container . Such a pressure relief valve  is preferably included in any embodiment utilizing pressurized media. However, this feature is omitted for clarity from the illustrations and discussions of the remaining embodiments.","The means  for electrically contacting the negative electrode  and the primary current collector  from the outside of the outer container  comprises a conductive material to which the pressurized CO is essentially non-corrosive. Preferably, this electrical contact means  comprises electrically insulated wires or metal terminals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["30","31","32","33","34","37","37","30","31","32"],"sub":"2 "},"The COmay be provided internally by inclusion within the electrolytic fluid , or provided from an external source. The primary current collector  preferably comprises a gas-diffusion electrode or porous material, as discussed above, such that the COelectrochemically reduces to a desired reduction product upon the primary current collector  during discharge. Preferably, the COreduction product is oxalate, carbonate, or formate. The negative electrode  comprises a material capable of reversibly electrochemically oxidizing to a cation, which ionically neutralizes the COreduction product. Preferably, the negative electrode  comprises lithium, beryllium, aluminum, zinc, sodium, magnesium, titanium, combinations thereof, or alloys thereof, or hydrogen. The negative electrode  and the primary current collector  are located at least partially within the reaction container .","During discharge, the electrolytic fluid  is transported from the source container , through the reaction container , to the product container . The anionic COreduction product formed upon the primary current collector  neutralizes the cations formed by the electrochemical oxidation of the negative electrode , and the cations and the COreduction product dissolve within the electrolytic fluid  within the reaction container . These ions are thus transported with the electrolytic fluid  from the reaction container  to the product container , where it is stored. During charging, the flow of the electrolytic fluid  is reversed, a positive electrical potential is applied to the primary current collector , and a negative electrical potential is applied to the negative electrode . The potential difference is sufficient to cause the COreduction product to electrochemically oxidize back to COupon the primary current collector , and to cause the cation to reduce back to the material composing the negative electrode . If the material composing the negative electrode  is a metal, then the metal is electrodeposited upon the negative electrode  as the cation is reduced.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["37","35","36","37","37","31","37","32","37","30"],"sub":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["31","31","33","34","69","37","44","45","46"]},"The reaction container  comprises a material to which the electrolytic fluid  and the second electrolyte  are essentially non-corrosive. Preferably, the reaction container  comprises steel.","The electrolytic fluid  comprises liquid or supercritical CO, an electrolyte, and a polar modifier, as discussed above. The electrolytic fluid  contacts the primary current collector . The liquid or supercritical COof the electrolytic fluid  provides an abundant source of COfor reduction at the primary current collector . The second electrolyte  preferably comprises a material that is essentially non-corrosive to the negative electrode. Preferably, the second electrolyte  comprises an organic electrolyte or an ionic liquid. The second electrolyte  contacts the negative electrode .","The primary current collector  comprises a material to which the electrolytic fluid is essentially non-corrosive. Preferably, the primary current collector  comprises a copper plate with its surface comprising aligned nanorods, as discussed above.","The cation exchange membrane  is permeable to cations  present in the system, but is not permeable to the second electrolyte , the electrolytic fluid , or the COreduction product , as discussed above. The cation exchange membrane  separates the second electrolyte  from the electrolytic fluid . Thus, cations  are present in both the electrolytic fluid  and the second electrolyte , but the COreduction product  is confined to the electrolytic fluid .","The anion exchange membrane  is permeable to the electrolytic fluid  and the COreduction product , but is not permeable to the cations  in the system, as discussed above. The anion exchange membrane  is positioned between the cation exchange membrane  and the primary current collector . This embodiment thus has a compartment between the cation exchange membrane  and the anion exchange membrane  for the accumulation of the cation  and the COreduction product . This accumulation compartment results in low concentrations of the ions in the vicinity of the primary current collector and the negative electrode, thus increasing diffusion efficiency.","In this embodiment, the means for reversibly transporting the electrolytic fluid from the source container (not shown) through the reaction container , to the product container (not shown) comprises a reversible pump (not shown) and tubes , entering each container at one or more points. The pump preferably comprises a direct lift, displacement, velocity, buoyancy, or gravity pump. In this embodiment, one or more tubes  enter the reaction container  within the accumulation compartment, leading from the source container, and one or more tubes  enter the reaction container  on the opposite end of the accumulation compartment, leading to the product container. The broad arrow indicates flow of the electrolytic fluid  through the tubes  and reaction container  during discharge.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"],"b":["31","33","34","37","38","39","43","33","34","38"],"sub":"2 "},"The electrolytic fluid  comprises an ionic liquid. Ionic liquids are advantageous for the reasons discussed above. Preferably, the electrolytic fluid  comprises an ionic liquid that exhibits a melting point depression in the presence of the pressurized CO.","The outer container  comprises a container capable of containing the pressurized CO. The pressurized CO fills the outer container . The pressure and temperature of the COare determined based on the ionic liquid selected to compose the electrolytic fluid . The pressure and temperature of the COare sufficient to maintain the ionic liquid in a liquid state. For example, if the ionic liquid used is tetrabutylammonium trifluorotris(perfluoroethyl)phosphate ([TBAm][TFEPF]), and the COpressure is 34.8 bar, then the temperature is at least 17.3\u00b0 C., to keep the ionic liquid in a liquid state. The pressure and temperature necessary for several other exemplary ionic liquids are discussed in Aaron M. Scurto et al., 247 Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 493, 497-98 (2008).","The reaction container  is located within the outer container , such that the reaction container  is immersed in the high pressure CO. The reaction container  comprises a material to which the electrolytic fluid  and the pressurized CO are essentially non-corrosive. Preferably, the reaction container  comprises steel.  depicts the reaction container  as cylindrical, but the reaction container  may be of any shape. It has holes in at least one side, sufficiently large to allow the passage of the pressurized CO. The reaction container  further comprises a COexchange membrane  and an electrically insulating seal , each sealing one portion of the reaction container .  depicts the COexchange membrane  and the electrically insulating seal  as sealing opposite ends of the cylindrical reaction container . The COexchange membrane  allows COto escape from the reaction container  during charging, and further allows the equilibration of pressure between the reaction container  and the outer container .","The primary current collector  comprises a gas-diffusion electrode containing a catalyst favorable for electrochemically reducing COto a desired reduction product, and a catalyst favorable for electrochemically oxidizing that reduction product to CO, as discussed above. Preferably, the COreduction product comprises oxalate. The primary current collector  is permeable to the high pressure CO, but not to the electrolytic fluid . The primary current collector  separates the electrolytic fluid  from the holes in the reaction container , such that the electrolytic liquid  may not escape the reaction container  through the holes.  depicts the primary current collector  as lining the curved wall of the cylindrical reaction container .","The negative electrode  comprises an electroactive material, as discussed in the description of . The negative electrode  further comprises a negative current collector  comprising a conductive material to which the electrolytic fluid  and the pressurized CO are essentially non-corrosive. Preferably, the negative current collector  comprises a copper rod or plate. The negative current collector  extends through the electrically insulating seal , such that the negative current collector  extends both inside and outside the reaction container , but does not electrically contact the reaction container . The electroactive material of the negative electrode  encases the portion of the negative current collector  that extends within the reaction container .","In this embodiment, the means for reversibly transporting the electrolytic fluid from the source container (not shown) through the reaction container , to the product container (not shown) comprises a reversible pump (not shown) and tubes , entering each container at one or more points. In this preferred embodiment, one or more tubes  enter the reaction container  near its top, leading from the source container, and one or more tubes  enter the reaction container  near its bottom, leading to the product container. The broad arrows indicate the flow of the electrolytic fluid  through the tubes  and reaction container  during discharge.","The means  for electrically contacting the negative electrode  and the primary current collector  from the outside of the outer container  comprises an electrically conductive material to which the pressurized CO is essentially non-corrosive. Preferably, this electrical contact means  comprises electrically insulated wires or metal terminals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5","FIG. 7"],"b":["49","50","49"]},"The electroactive gas is capable of reversibly oxidizing to form a cation, which then ionically neutralizes the COreduction product. In this preferred embodiment, the electroactive gas comprises hydrogen.","The gas-diffusion electrode  is permeable to hydrogen, but is not permeable to the electrolytic fluid . The gas-diffusion electrode  comprises a material to which the hydrogen, the protons formed by the oxidation of the hydrogen, the electrolytic fluid , CO, and the COreduction product present in the system are essentially non-corrosive. The structure of the gas-diffusion electrode  is like that of the COgas-diffusion electrodes discussed above. The gas-diffusion electrode  further comprises a catalyst favorable for oxidizing hydrogen to protons, and a catalyst favorable for reducing protons to hydrogen. Preferably, the catalysts comprise noble metals, transition metal carbides, and transition metal nitrides.","In this embodiment, the means  for delivering the hydrogen to the gas-diffusion electrode  comprises a tube allowing a flow of hydrogen to the gas-diffusion electrode  from a source (not shown) outside the outer container .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"],"b":["70","71","77"]},"The primary positive electrode  comprises a primary current collector , CO, and a reducing catalyst (not depicted). The primary current collector  preferably comprises a gas-diffusion electrode or porous material, as discussed above, such that the CO electrochemically reduces to a desired reduction product  upon the primary current collector  during discharge. The reducing catalyst is favorable for reducing CO to the desired reduction product . The reducing catalyst at least partially covers the surface of the primary current collector .","The charging positive electrode comprises a charging current collector  and an oxidizing catalyst (not depicted). The charging current collector  preferably comprises a gas-diffusion electrode or porous material, having the same characteristics as the primary current collector , such that the COreduction product  oxidizes to CO upon the charging current collector  during charging. The oxidizing catalyst is favorable for oxidizing the COreduction product  to CO. The oxidizing catalyst at least partially covers the surface of the charging current collector .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 9A","b":["72","70","76","72","73","76","72","73","74","72","74","71"],"sub":["2 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 9B","b":["75","76","75","74","71","76","75","74","73","75"],"sub":"2 "},"This embodiment allows the charging positive electrode to comprise materials maximizing selectivity and efficiency in oxidizing a desired COreduction product, while the primary positive electrode comprises different materials maximizing selectivity and efficiency in reducing COto the desired reduction product. This increases the energy storage efficiency of the device. The addition of a charging positive electrode, as defined above, may be applied to any of the foregoing embodiments, or any other embodiments, of the electrochemical energy storage device described herein.","It is to be understood that the above-described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.","All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.","Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state \u201cmeans for\u201d performing a specified function, or \u201cstep for\u201d performing a specific function, is not to be interpreted as a \u201cmeans\u201d or \u201cstep\u201d clause as specified in 35 U.S.C.\u00a7112, \u00b6 6. In particular, the use of \u201cstep of\u201d in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C.\u00a7112, \u00b6 6."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
