---
title: Enhanced group calling features for connected portfolio services in a wireless communications network
abstract: Enhanced Group Calling Features for Connected Portfolio Services in wireless communications networks, such as a mobile or cellular phone communications networks. The Connected Portfolio Services include Mobile Conferencing (Scheduled/Instant/Reservationless Conference), Family Connect, Buddy Connect, and Quick Reach, while the Enhanced Group Calling Features include Voicemail Diversion (the recognition of a diversion to voicemail and dropping the leg), Reverse Quick Reach (where a terminating subscriber defines how a call dialed to his/her mobile number should be handled and directed), and Single Number Group Calling (an optimal design implementation of single number based group calling).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08498660&OS=08498660&RS=08498660
owner: Kodiak Networks, Inc.
number: 08498660
owner_city: San Ramon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100330
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of the following co-pending and commonly-assigned patent application:","U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/164,754, filed Mar. 30, 2009, by Bruce D. Lawler, Krishnakant M. Patel, Ravi Ayyasamy, Harisha Mahabaleshwara Negalaguli, Basem A. Ardah, Gorachand Kundu, Ramu Kandula, and Brahmananda R. Vempati, entitled \u201cENHANCED GROUP CALLING FEATURES,\u201d and","U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/172,129, filed Apr. 23, 2009, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Ravi Ayyasamy, Harisha Mahabaleshwara Negalaguli, Ravi Shankar Kumar, and Chetan Patel, entitled \u201cIP CONNECTIVITY FOR CONNECTED PORTFOLIO APPLICATIONS,\u201d","which applications are incorporated by reference herein.","This application is related to the following co-pending and commonly-assigned patent applications:","U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/515,556, filed Nov. 23, 2004, by Gorachand Kundu, Ravi Ayyasamy and Krishnakant Patel, entitled \u201cDISPATCH SERVICE ARCHITECTURE FRAMEWORK,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 365 of P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US03\/16386, which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60\/382,981, 60\/383,179 and 60\/407,168;","U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/564,903, filed Jan. 17, 2006, by F. Craig Farrill, Bruce D. Lawler and Krishnakant M. Patel, entitled \u201cPREMIUM VOICE SERVICES FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 365 of P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US04\/23038, which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60\/488,638, 60\/492,650 and 60\/576,094 and which application is a continuation-in-part and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Sections 119, 120 and\/or 365 of P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US03\/16386;","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/126,587, filed May 11, 2005, by Ravi Ayyasamy and Krishnakant M. Patel, entitled \u201cARCHITECTURE, CLIENT SPECIFICATION AND APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE (API) FOR SUPPORTING ADVANCED VOICE SERVICES (AVS) INCLUDING PUSH TO TALK ON WIRELESS HANDSETS AND NETWORKS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60\/569,953 and 60\/579,309, and which application is a continuation-in-part and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Sections 119, 120 and\/or 365 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/515,556 and P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US04\/23038;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/129,268, filed May 13, 2005, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Gorachand Kundu, Ravi Ayyasamy and Basem Ardah, entitled \u201cROAMING GATEWAY FOR SUPPORT OF ADVANCED VOICE SERVICES WHILE ROAMING IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS,\u201d now U.S. Pat. No. 7,403,775, issued Jul. 22, 2008, which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/571,075, and which application is a continuation-in-part and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Sections 119, 120 and\/or 365 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/515,556 and P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US04\/23038;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/134,883, filed May 23, 2005, by Krishnakant Patel, Vyankatesh V. Shanbhag, Ravi Ayyasamy, Stephen R. Horton and Shan-Jen Chiou, entitled \u201cADVANCED VOICE SERVICES ARCHITECTURE FRAMEWORK,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60\/573,059 and 60\/576,092, and which application is a continuation-in-part and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Sections 119, 120 and\/or 365 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/515,556, P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US04\/23038, U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/126,587, and U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/129,268;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/136,233, filed May 24, 2005, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Vyankatesh Vasant Shanbhag, and Anand Narayanan, entitled \u201cSUBSCRIBER IDENTITY MODULE (SIM) ENABLING ADVANCED VOICE SERVICES (AVS) INCLUDING PUSH-TO-TALK, PUSH-TO-CONFERENCE AND PUSH-TO-MESSAGE ON WIRELESS HANDSETS AND NETWORKS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/573,780, and which application is a continuation-in-part and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Sections 119, 120 and\/or 365 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/515,556, P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US04\/23038, U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/126,587, and U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/134,883;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/158,527, filed Jun. 22, 2005, by F. Craig Farrill, entitled \u201cPRESS-TO-CONNECT FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/581,954, and which application is a continuation-in-part and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Sections 119, 120 and\/or 365 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/515,556 and P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US4\/23038;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/183,516, filed Jul. 18, 2005, by Deepankar Biswaas, entitled \u201cVIRTUAL PUSH TO TALK (PTT) AND PUSH TO SHARE (PTS) FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/588,464;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/356,775, filed Feb. 17, 2006, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Bruce D. Lawler, Giridhar K. Boray, and Brahmananda R. Vempati, entitled \u201cENHANCED FEATURES IN AN ADVANCED VOICE SERVICES (AVS) FRAMEWORK FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/654,271; P.C.T. International Application Serial Number PCT\/US2006\/011628, filed Mar. 30, 2006, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Gorachand Kundu, Sameer Dharangaonkar, Giridhar K. Boray, and Deepankar Biswas, entitled \u201cTECHNIQUE FOR IMPLEMENTING ADVANCED VOICE SERVICES USING AN UNSTRUCTURED SUPPLEMENTARY SERVICE DATA (USSD) INTERFACE,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/666,424;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/462,332, filed Aug. 3, 2006, by Deepankar Biswas, Krishnakant M. Patel, Giridhar K. Boray, and Gorachand Kundu, entitled \u201cARCHITECTURE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF CLOSED USER GROUP AND LIMITING MOBILITY IN WIRELESS NETWORKS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/705,115;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/463,186, filed Aug. 8, 2006, by Ravi Ayyasamy and Krishnakant M. Patel, entitled \u201cADVANCED VOICE SERVICES CLIENT FOR BREW PLATFORM,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/706,265;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/567,098, filed Dec. 5, 2006, by Ravi Ayyasamy, Bruce D. Lawler, Krishnakant M. Patel, Vyankatesh V. Shanbhag, Brahmananda R. Vempati, and Ravi Shankar Kumar, entitled \u201cINSTANT MESSAGING INTERWORKING IN AN ADVANCED VOICE SERVICES (AVS) FRAMEWORK FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/742,250;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/740,805, filed Apr. 26, 2007, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Giridhar K. Boray, Ravi Ayyasamy, and Gorachand Kundu, entitled \u201cADVANCED FEATURES ON A REAL-TIME EXCHANGE SYSTEM,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/795,090;","U.S. application Ser. No. 11\/891,127, filed Aug. 9, 2007, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Deepankar Biswas, Sameer P. Dharangaonkar and Terakanambi Nanjanayaka Raja, entitled \u201cEMERGENCY GROUP CALLING ACROSS MULTIPLE WIRELESS NETWORKS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/836,521;","U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/259,102, filed Oct. 27, 2008, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Bruce Lawler, Gorachand Kundu, Ravi Ayyasamy, Ravi Shankar Kumar, Harisha Mahabaleshwara Negalaguli, Basem Ahmad Ardah, Prathap Chandana, Shan-Jen Chiou, Arun Velayudhan, and Ramu Kandula, entitled \u201cCONNECTED PORTFOLIO SERVICES FOR A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/982,650 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/023,042;","U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/359,861, filed Jan. 26, 2009, by Bruce D. Lawler, Krishnakant M. Patel, Ravi Ayyasamy, Harisha Mahabaleshwara Negalaguli, Binu Kaiparambil, Shiva Cheedella, Brahmananda R. Vempati, Ravi Shankar Kumar, and Avrind Shanbhag, entitled \u201cCONVERGED MOBILE-WEB COMMUNICATIONS SOLUTION,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/023,332;","U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/582,601, filed Oct. 20, 2009, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Ravi Ayyasamy, Gorachand Kundu, Basem A. Ardah, Anand Narayanan, Brahmananda R. Vempati, and Pratap Chandana, entitled \u201cHYBRID PUSH-TO-TALK FOR MOBILE PHONE NETWORKS,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/106,689;","all of which applications are incorporated by reference herein.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates in general to wireless communications systems, and more specifically, to enhanced group calling features for connected portfolio services in a wireless communications network.","2. Description of Related Art","Advanced Voice Services (AVS), also known as Advanced Group Services (AGS), can include a number of different functions, such as Push-to-Conference (P2C) or Instant Conferencing, etc., as described in the co-pending and commonly-assigned patent applications cross-referenced above and incorporated by reference herein. These AVS functions have enormous revenue earnings potential for wireless communications systems, such as mobile phone networks.","Currently, there are three major approaches employed in providing AVS and AGS in wireless communications systems. One approach requires the installation of a dedicated private network, parallel to the wireless communications system, to support the group-based voice services. However, a dedicated private network is costly to install and maintain.","Another approach is based on Voice over IP (VoIP) technologies. While this approach promises compliance with newer and emerging standards, such as GPRS (General Packet Radio Service), UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System), etc., it does not provide a solution for carriers employing wireless communications systems based on existing standards, such as GSM, CDMA, etc. However, even for the newer standards, solutions based on VoIP have serious drawbacks, including slower call setup, significant overhead, increased susceptibility to packet losses, low bit rate voice coders, and significant modifications to the mobile handset.","Still another approach is the innovative approach described in the co-pending and commonly-assigned patent applications cross-referenced above and incorporated by reference herein. In this approach, advanced voice services are provided by a real-time exchange (RTX), also known as a dispatch gateway (DG), that interfaces to the wireless communications system to provide the advanced voice services therein, wherein both the real-time exchange and mobiles that use the advanced voice services communicate with each other using call setup and in-band signaling within the wireless communications system.","However, notwithstanding the innovations described in the co-pending and commonly-assigned patent applications cross-referenced above, there is a need in the art for improvements to the AVS, as well as additional AVS, that comply with existing and emerging wireless standards and provide superior user experiences. The present invention aims to satisfy this need by providing additional services, also known as Connected Portfolio Services, and improvements to those additional services, also known as Enhanced Group Calling Features for Connected Portfolio Services, in wireless communications systems.","To overcome the limitations in the prior art described above, and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification, the present invention discloses Enhanced Group Calling Features for Connected Portfolio Services in wireless communications networks, such as a mobile or cellular phone communications networks. The Connected Portfolio Services include Mobile Conferencing (Scheduled\/Instant\/Reservationless Conference), Family Connect, Buddy Connect, and Quick Reach, while the Enhanced Group Calling Features include Voicemail Diversion, Reverse Quick Reach, and Single Number Group Calling. These and other aspects of the present invention are described in more detail below.","In the following description of the preferred embodiment, reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration the specific embodiment in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized as structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.","1 Overview","1.1 Enhanced Group Calling Features for Connected Portfolio Services in a Wireless Communications Network","The present invention discloses Connected Portfolio Services, which are also described in co-pending and commonly assigned U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/259,102, filed Oct. 27, 2008, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Bruce Lawler, Gorachand Kundu, Ravi Ayyasamy, Ravi Shankar Kumar, Harisha Mahabaleshwara Negalaguli, Basem Ahmad Ardah, Prathap Chandana, Shan-Jen Chiou, Arun Velayudhan, and Ramu Kandula, entitled \u201cCONNECTED PORTFOLIO SERVICES FOR A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/982,650 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/023,042, which applications are incorporated by reference herein. The present invention also discloses improvement to the Connected Portfolio Services, known as Enhanced Group Calling Features for Connected Portfolio Services in wireless communications systems, which are described in more detail herein.","More specifically, the Connected Portfolio Services include Mobile Conferencing (Scheduled\/Instant\/Reservationless Conference), Family Connect, Buddy Connect, and Quick Reach:","1. Scheduled Conference: This service allows a mobile handset user to schedule a conference with a group of other users at a predetermined date and time. There are two modes of operation: Dial-Out and Dial-In:","a) Dial-Out: In this option, a Real-Time Exchange (RTX) will dial out the call to participants in a scheduled conference, and then bridge the conference call between the participants.","b) Dial-In: In this option, participants in a scheduled conference dial in to a conference bridge number.","A number of unique technologies are provided to facilitate the Scheduled Conference service with many user friendly features, such as conference call notification, one-touch dial to join a conference call, etc.","2. Reservationless Conference: This service allows a user to set up a conference bridge and communicate the conference bridge access number and password to participants of a conference call. This solution is \u201cclientless\u201d in that the originator does not need a handset client application to invoke this service.","3. Instant Conferencing: This service allows users to create and manage groups using multiple different means, such as via the Web, via Short Message Service (SMS), via Wireless Access Protocol (WAP), via an operator, etc. Once a group is created, the originator receives a single dial out number; upon dialing this number, the originator is connected to the group.","4. Family Connect: The Family Connect service allows user to make an instant conference call to all the family members. It can utilize the operator's existing family plan database instead of creating its own database.","5. Buddy Connect: The Buddy Connect service allows a user to create a buddy group and make an instant conference by any buddy member in the buddy group.","6. Quick Reach: The Quick Reach service is a call originating service that allows a user to create a list of phone numbers in order to reach a particular person. When the user originates this type of call, all the phones for that particular person are called and rang until one of the phones answers the call, and then the rest of call attempts are dropped.","The Enhanced Group Calling Features include Voicemail Diversion, Reverse Quick Reach, and Single Number Group Calling:","A. Voicemail Diversion: The recognition of a diversion to voicemail and dropping the leg.","B. Reverse Quick Reach: The terminating subscriber defines how a call dialed to his\/her mobile number should be handled and directed. In addition, the RTX is removed from the media path following a Quick Reach termination.","C. Single Number Group Calling: An optimal design implementation of single number based group calling in a cellular network including a geo-redundant RTX deployment.","2 System Description","2.1 Overview","The following illustration explains the network reference architecture used to provide the Enhanced Group Calling Features for the Connected Portfolio Services described herein. These Enhanced Group Calling Features for the Connected Portfolio Services are provided without any changes to the existing network infrastructure, but merely the addition of a service control point, known as a Real-Time Exchange (RTX), connected to the network and a client application embedded in the handset (although a clientless version of the handset may be provided as well).","2.2 Network Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"Within the network , an RTX , also known as a Dispatch Gateway (DG), communicates with a MSC (Mobile Switching Center)  and PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network)  using SS7\u2014ISUP\/WIN\/CAMEL (Signaling System 7\u2014Integrated Services Digital Network User Part\/Wireless Intelligent Network\/Customized Applications for Mobile Enhanced Logic) messages at a signaling plane . A bearer path  implements a TDM (Time Division Multiplexing) interface carrying PCM (Pulse Code Modulation) or TFO (Tandem Free Operation) voice frames. Support for TFO in this path  is negotiated between a BSC (Base Station Controller)  and the RTX  for each originating and terminating leg of an AVS call. The use of TFO ensures high voice quality (as voice vocoder conversion is avoided) between mobile-to-mobile calls.","When a subscriber originates an AVS call, the MSC  routes the call to the RTX . The MSC  also requests the BSC  via  to establish a radio traffic path  with a mobile station (MS)  (also known as a handset or mobile unit) via the BTS (Base Transceiver Station)  (as it does for a normal cellular call). At this time, the BSC  tries to negotiate TFO (if it is supported) on a TDM link with the far end (in this case, the RTX ).","At the same time (after the MSC  terminates the group call request to the RTX ), the RTX  identifies the terminating group users and their numbers, which may comprise an MS-ISDN (Mobile Station-Integrated Services Digital Network) number, an IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity) number, or an MDN (Mobile Directory Number).","The RTX  sends an ISUP call origination request for each terminating handset . It may send requests directly to the MSC , PSTN  or IP network  via a PDSN (Public Data Switched Network) , Router , and\/or Internet\/Intranet , depending on the routing table configuration for terminating numbers. Once the bearer path  is established, the RTX  begins a negotiation with the far end (in this case, the terminating BSC ) for each terminating leg to a handset .","Once bearer paths  are established for originating and terminating legs for an AVS call, the RTX  switches (or duplicates) voice or data from the originating handset  to all terminating handsets .","The RTX  may also use an IP network  or the Internet\/Intranet . The IP network  or the Internet\/Intranet  can be used in a toll bypass mode where two RTXs  can exchange voice traffic bypassing the PSTN . However, each RTX  is responsible for terminating traffic to its closest MSC . In this case, the IP network  or the Internet\/Intranet  is used as a backbone transport of voice traffic between two RTXs .","The IP network  or the Internet\/Intranet  can also be used for a registration and presence application. Since the MSC  will not direct a registration request from a handset  to the RTX  (because it would require changes in the MSC ), the latter does not have any information of the registered handset . To circumvent this issue, a registration and presence application runs over an IP stack in the handset . After the handset  registers for a data interface (i.e., obtaining an IP address) with the PDSN  (or Serving GSM Service Nodes (SGSN) in the case of GSM networks), the registration and presence application in the handset  registers with the RTX  using its IP address. The RTX  also uses this IP interface to update the presence information of other group members to a handset .","An alternative embodiment may use the SMS (Short Message Service) transport to carry presence messages over a data channel. The RTX  interacts with the handset  using predefined presence application related messages that are transported as SMS messages. The same messages can be transported via the PDSN  interface, if group users have data service.","During roaming, a Home Location Register (HLR)  and Visitor Location Register (VLR)  can be accessed via the MSC  and a MAP link . The HLR  and VLR  are used to track the mobile handsets  within home or foreign networks, while the RTX  is used to track the presence of members of a group within the home or foreign networks and updates the mobile handsets  for those members with the network availability of other members of the group.","A Short Message Service Center (SMSC)  is accessible via the IP network  (or other element) for the storage of text messages (SMS messages). When an SMS message is sent to a handset , the message is first stored in the SMSC  until the recipient handset  is available (e.g., a store-and-forward option).","2.3 Real Time Exchange",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"102"},"The architecture includes a Call Processing system , Presence Server , Real-Time Event Processing system , one or more Media Managers , and an SMPP (Short Message Peer-to-Peer) Transport , as well as modules for various SS7 protocols, such as MTP- (Message Transfer Part Level ) , MTP- (Message Transfer Part Level ) , MTP- (Message Transfer Part Level ) , ISUP (Integrated Services Digital Network User Part) , SCCP (Signaling Connection Control Part) , and TCAP (Transactions Capabilities Application Part)  protocols.","The Call Processing system , Presence Server , Media Managers , SMPP Transport , and other modules communicate across an IP network . The Real-Time Event Processing system  communicates directly with the Call Processing system , Presence Server , and the modules for various SS7 protocols. The modules for various SS7 protocols communicate with other entities via a SS7 Signaling Link . The SMPP Transport  communicates with a SMSC (Short Message Service Center) gateway using the SMPP protocol . The Media Managers  communicate among themselves using the H.110 protocol  (or some other protocol, such TCP\/IP).","The operation of these various components are described in more detail below, as well as in the co-pending and commonly-assigned patent applications cross-referenced above and incorporated by reference herein.","The originating handset  signals the RTX  via the wireless network , e.g., by transmitting one or more messages to the RTX . The Media Manager systems  receive the messages and pass the messages to the Call Processing system . The Call Processing (CP) system  determines whether the originating handset  has subscribed to the AVS before originating the AVS call. Upon confirmation, the Call Processing system  initiates a new AVS call. The Call Processing system  interacts with the Presence Server  and Real-Time Event Processing system  to cause the wireless network  to perform call setup with the terminating handsets  for the AVS call, and thereafter to manage the AVS call.","During the AVS call, the Call Processing system  interacts with the Media Manager systems  to maintain the H.110 channels  and assign any additional H.110 channels  required for the AVS call, which may span across multiple Media Manager systems . During the AVS call, the Media Manager systems  of the RTX  are used to mix audio streams between the originating handset  and the terminating handset , and then deliver these mixed audio streams to the originating handset  and the terminating handset . The H.110 channels  are used for passing mixed and unmixed audio streams voice between the Media Manager systems  as required.","2.4 Mobile Station Components",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["120","120"]},"Preferably, the software architecture used in the handset  provides an application programming interface (API) that supports the logic and data required within the handset  for providing cellular service, including the functions necessary for the making an AVS call generally, for providing the Connected Portfolio Services generally and for providing the Enhanced Group Calling Features for the Connected Portfolio Services specifically.","The high-level functional components of the handset  include a subscriber identity module (SIM) , encoder\/decoder , processing logic  and user interface . A client application  is provided on the SIM  that supports AVS functionality for the handset . In addition, the SIM  stores a database , which includes an address book, AVS contacts and\/or group information.","At power-on, the handset  loads the client application  necessary to support the AVS. This functionality provided includes the \u201clook and feel\u201d of the menu displays on the handset , as well as user interaction with the menu displays.","During operation, the encoder\/decoder  decodes and encodes messages, and populates specific data structures in the handset . The encoder\/decoder  checks the validity of the incoming messages by verifying mandatory parameters for each of the incoming messages. A message will not be processed further if the encoder\/decoder  fails to decode the message.","The processing logic  handles all the AVS related functionalities. The processing logic  implementation is device-specific and vendor-specific, and it interacts with the other components, including the encoder\/decoder , user interface , client application  and database .","The processing logic  provides an auto-answer mechanism for AVS calls. Specifically, when a call is received, the processing logic  automatically answers the call. The processing logic  makes use of call notification for incoming call detection and, based on various parameters received within the call notification, determines whether the call is an AVS call. If the call is an AVS call, then the processing logic  uses \u201cAT\u201d commands to answer the AVS call and turn on the speaker of the handset . (All of this takes place within a certain time period.) On the other hand, if the call is not an AVS call, then normal call processing is performed by the handset .","The processing logic  also provides \u201cfloor control\u201d using DTMF tone control. For example, in push-to-talk (P2T) calls, which are half-duplex, a determination of who may talk is based on who has the \u201cfloor.\u201d Using the processing logic  provided in the handset , appropriate DTMF tones are sent to the RTX  in accordance with specific key sequences (i.e., pressing and\/or releasing a P2T key) that indicate whether the \u201cfloor\u201d has been requested and\/or released by the user.","In addition, the processing logic  provides SMS destination control based on the type of subscriber. At the time of subscriber data provisioning, if it is determined that the handset  will use AVS based logic, then appropriate logic is invoked in the RTX  to send presence messages over SMS to the handset . Similarly, the handset  is configured at the time of provisioning to receive\/accept such SMS and respond to the RTX  appropriately.","Finally, the processing logic  also enables subscribers to track the presence of fellow members of the group in the network  on their handset , and provides a mechanism and API to carry-out contacts and group management operations on the handset , such as add member, delete member, etc.","Since most of the presence information is stored in the database , the database  is tightly integrated with the processing logic . The database  stores groups, contacts, presence and availability related information. The database  information essentially contains group and member information along with presence information associated with each group and member. Apart from group and member information, the database  also stores subscriber information, such as privileges, presence information, etc. The other components of the handset  may interact with the database  to retrieve\/update the group, members and presence information for various operations. The database  also has pointers to the native address book on the handset , to provide seamless \u201calias\u201d naming for contacts used with cellular calls, as well as AVS.","The user interface  provides a mechanism for the user to view and manage groups, group members, contacts, presence and availability. The user interface  also makes it possible to invoke the AVS from the group\/contact list screens, as described in more detail below.","2.5 Connected Portfolio Services","The RTX  and handset  work together to provide the functionality of the Connected Portfolio Services for the wireless communications network . The specifics of this functionality are described in more detail in the following sections.","3 Scheduled Conference","The Scheduled Conference service allows a moderator to schedule a conference in advance. Establishing a scheduled conference can be done by connecting to the RTX  through the handset  or via Internet access. The originator can specify how to set up the type of participant connection (Dial-In or Dial-Out) and whether a moderator (e.g., the originator) is required on the call or not.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","120","402","404","406","408","410","412"]},"The RTX  notifies each participant and originator with the conference details using SMS. For Dial-Out conferences, also known as an Instant Conference (IC), the RTX  dials each participant at the scheduled time. For Dial-In conferences, also known as a Reservationless Conference (RC), each participant simply presses the Send key on their handset  after high-lighting the bridge number within the conference details SMS.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"Block  represents the originator selecting a \u201cNew Conference\u201d option on the handset and providing the conference details via the user interface shown in . The originator then selects the conference participants from the address book, and presses the Send key on the handset to complete the scheduling of the conference, which sends an SMS to the RTX.","Block  represents the RTX sending a conference details SMS to the conference participants.","Block  represents the initiation of the conference, at the conference start time.","In Dial-In mode, the participant selects the conference details SMS on the handset and then selects the Send key on the handset to dial into the conference. The conference participants may also dial in from a landline using a global number and access code.","In Dial-Out mode, the RTX will dial out to all the participants as well as the originator.","3.1 End User Features","The main features of the Scheduled Conference include the following:\n\n","3.2 Mid Call Add\/Drop","This feature provides the user with the ability to add or drop participants to an active conference call. The user can select some specified number of participants to add to or drop from a conference call. The Mid Call Add\/Drop feature can be accessed by the user under an Options menu on the handset.","3.3 Rejoin a Conference Call","This feature allows for the originator or any participants of a conference call to rejoin an active conference call, if they have dropped at any time. The RTX  sends an SMS to the originator and all participants of the conference call with the bridge information. The end user can simply press the Send key on the handset  while displaying the SMS to rejoin the conference call. To rejoin a clientless conference, the participants can dial a global conference number and enter an access code at any time. (An SMS is not sent to clientless conference participants.)","3.4 Call Flows","The call flows for Scheduled Conference in CDMA and GSM networks can be found in co-pending and commonly assigned U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/259,102, filed Oct. 27, 2008, by Krishnakant M. Patel, Bruce Lawler, Gorachand Kundu, Ravi Ayyasamy, Ravi Shankar Kumar, Harisha Mahabaleshwara Negalaguli, Basem Ahmad Ardah, Prathap Chandana, Shan-Jen Chiou, Arun Velayudhan, and Ramu Kandula, entitled \u201cCONNECTED PORTFOLIO SERVICES FOR A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK,\u201d which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/982,650 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/023,042, which applications are incorporated by reference herein.","4 Family Connect Group Call","The Family Connect service is an Instant Conference service that utilizes the existing operator's existing family plan database and terminates calls to all the family members when a nation-wide number is dialed by the user.","The main features of Family Connect are:\n\n","Alternatively, when an operator's network does not provide a family plan database, this service provides a Web interface for the user to create\/update\/view her\/his own family members.","5 Buddy Connect Group Call","The Buddy Connect service is Instant Conference service, wherein the user creates \u201cbuddy connect\u201d groups via the Internet.","The main features of Buddy Connect are:\n\n","6 Quick","Reach","The Quick Reach service allows a user to reach a called party by making call attempts to all possible phone numbers (i.e., Customer Premise Equipment (CPE)) used or owned by the called party. The user creates Quick Reach groups via the Internet.","The main features of Quick Reach are:\n\n","7 Reservationless Conference\/Clientless Conference","A Reservationless Conference, also known as Clientless Conference, provides a \u201cMeet me on my bridge\u201d capability without a client on the handset. Each clientless conference subscriber will have a standing bridge that can be accessed at anytime. The conference owner will create an access code for each conference and provide the access code to the participants. Participants will enter the access code that was created by the conference owner and join the conference once the owner has joined the call.","7.1 Originator User Flows",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0157"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},"Block  represents the initiation of the conference, at the conference start time. The originator and the participants dial the call-in number, and are prompted by the RTX to enter the conference ID and the access code. The conference participants may dial in from a landline as well as a handset. All of the participants can rejoin the conference call at any time using the same steps.","7.2 End User Features","The main features of the Reservationless Conference include the following:\n\n","7.3 Mid Call Add\/Drop","This feature provides the user with the ability to add or drop participants to\/from an active Clientless Conference. The originator can enter the full MDN of the participant to add or drop from the keypad of the handset during an active Clientless Conference","8 Enhanced Group Calling Features","As noted above, the Connected Portfolio Services include such services as Mobile Conferencing (i.e., Scheduled\/Instant\/Reservationless Conferencing), Family Connect, Group Connect, and Quick Reach, all of which use a single number to designate a logical group of numbers.","In the case of Mobile Conferencing, Family Connect and Group Connect, the numbers represented are the conference participant numbers, family or group members' numbers, respectively. In the case of Quick Reach, the numbers represent one particular subscriber's numbers (such as home, office, mobile, etc.)","As noted above, the Enhanced Group Calling features for these Connected Portfolio Services include:\n\n","8.1 Dropping a Voicemail Leg in Group Calling Scenarios","In all variants of the Connected Portfolio Services, it is imperative that the RTX  initiating the terminating legs of the Connected Portfolio Services recognizes that one or more of the terminating legs of the Connected Portfolio Services has been diverted to voicemail and drops the terminating legs that have been diverted to voicemail from the Connected Portfolio Services. The diversion of call legs to voicemail, and the dropping those call legs from inclusion in a conference bridge, prevents the group communications from being recorded on a voicemail, which entails privacy issues, and also prevents the awkward interjection of voicemail greetings and announcements into the group communications.","The present invention's diversion to voicemail is based on two methods:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0183"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},"In Step 1, an originator (A) dials a number that represents a logical group of numbers.","In Step 2, the RTX translates the dialed number to several termination numbers to whom the call should be terminated (B, C and D).","In Step 3, the termination device C is unreachable, so the MSC diverts the call to voicemail and indicates the diversion to the RTX in an ISUP CPG message containing a diversion or \u201cforwarded-to\u201d number.","In Step 4, the RTX receives the \u201cforwarded-to\u201d number in the ISUP CPG message and checks the number against a database of voicemail destination numbers. If the diversion number is configured in the voicemail destination number database, then this leg of the call is dropped from inclusion in the service.","Note that, if the diversion number does not match a voicemail destination number in the database, then the next check performed by the RTX is the \u201c#\u201d input from user that applies, as described in the next figure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0189"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},"In Step 1, an originator (A) dials a number that represents a logical group of numbers.","In Step 2, the RTX translates the dialed number to several termination numbers to whom the call should be terminated (B, C and D).","In Step 3, the termination device D is unreachable, and a landline switch diverts the call to voicemail, but no indication is sent to the RTX indicate the call diversion.","In Step 4, the RTX waits for the user to press \u201c#\u201d to join the call. Since this leg is connected to a voicemail, no such input will be forthcoming. The RTX will timeout waiting for this input, and drops this leg of the call from inclusion in the service.","8.2 Reverse Quick Reach","As noted above, Quick Reach is a service that allows the originator to ring multiple phone numbers of the same person simultaneously, sequentially or selectively (i.e., an originating user service). Reverse Quick Reach is variation of the above service, albeit a terminating user service that applies termination call handling to the terminator's \u201cpublished mobile number\u201d during termination and allows simultaneous, sequential or selective ringing of multiple phone numbers. Specifically, when the terminating user answers one of the phone numbers, the remaining legs of the call are dropped.","The service is accomplished by arming the mobile number for terminating triggers. A Gateway MSC (GMSC)  terminating the call, which is an MSC  directly connected to the RTX , is instructed to connect to the RTX  for subscribers that are configured for this service. The RTX  then terminates the calls to all the numbers configured for this user. When the user answers at one of the numbers (and presses the \u201c#\u201d key to confirm joining the group call), the RTX  drops the remaining (unanswered) legs and connects the user to the originator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0197"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},"In Step 1, an originator (A) dials B\u2032s mobile number.","In Step 2, the GMSC queries the HLR for the terminating subscriber B and receives the trigger information which instructs the GMSC to contact the RTX.","In Step 3, the GMSC contacts the RTX, which checks B\u2032s subscription to this service and instructs the GMSC to connect the call to the RTX.","In Step 4, the RTX terminates the call to all of the destination numbers configured for B (B, C and D). The answered leg is preserved and the remaining unanswered legs are dropped from the call.","Note that, if B is not configured on the RTX for any other destination numbers, the RTX will leave itself out of the media path by instructing the GMSC to \u201cContinue\u201d in its processing of the call toward B (i.e., Step 3).","Note also that, termination to B from the RTX may trigger another query to the RTX, just as in Step 3. For the second query, the RTX instructs the GMSC to \u201cContinue\u201d processing the call toward B.","8.2.1 Quick Reach and Reverse Quick Reach Optimization","Both Quick Reach and Reverse Quick Reach are services that ultimately connect an originator to one and only one terminator. This presents an opportunity for bearer path optimization where the RTX  can exclude itself from the bearer path after the call has been answered (i.e., normal call processing in the network  can be used).","To take advantage of this optimization, the terminating call must traverse the MSC  that originated the call, which typically is the GMSC  through which the RTX  is connected. The RTX  would instruct the GMSC  to initiate a connection \u201ccut-through\u201d very similar to the cut-through that occurs during subsequent handoff scenarios, where IS-41 message directives indicate to an anchor MSC  to connect to a serving MSC  by dropping an intervening MSC  from the connection; however, in this scenario, it is the intervening RTX  that is dropped from the connection.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0177","num":"0207"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},"In Step 1, an originator (A) dials a number for B that represents a logical group of numbers.","In Step 2, the call is routed through the GMSC to the RTX.","In Step 3, the RTX terminates the call to all of the destination numbers configured for B (B and C). The answered leg (B) is preserved and the remaining leg (C) is dropped from the call.","In Step 4, knowing that B has answered the call, the RTX can then issue a facility directive to the GMSC that the circuits that need to be connected internally within the GMSC.","In Step 5, the GMSC reconfigures the connections to leave the RTX out of the media path by connecting the incoming bearer path or leg from A, represented by an associated incoming CIC (Circuit Identification Code), to the outgoing bearer path or leg to B, represented by an associated outgoing CIC.","Note that, if B is not configured on the RTX for more than one destination numbers, the RTX will leave itself out of the media path by instructing the GMSC to \u201cContinue\u201d in its processing of the call toward B (Step 3).","Note also that, termination to B from the RTX may trigger another query to RTX, just as in Step 3. For the second query, the RTX instructs the GMSC to \u201cContinue\u201d processing call toward B.","8.3 Single Number Based Group Calling","Each of the Enhanced Group Calling features, including Mobile Conferencing, Family Connect, Group Connect and Quick Reach, that employ a single number to represent a logical group of numbers, can be realized in an network  using one of the following approaches described herein.","These approaches include the deployment of a geo-redundant RTX  (i.e., a Geo-RTX), which is a redundant RTX  located at a geographically different location. Moreover, these approaches revolve around an optimal use of a block of numbers and simplifying Translation Table entries within the network  through a creative use of a temporary routing number.","These approaches collectively apply to a family of features known as \u201cConnected Applications,\u201d and are defined by Connected Applications Routing.","8.3.1 Connected Applications Routing (Approach 1)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0190","num":"0220"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},"In Step 1, the user dials 111-222-3001 for Group 1.","In Step 2, this dialing string is analyzed by the MSC (Originator: A, Dialed: 111-222-3001), and routed to RTX.","In Step 3, RTX determines from an EMS (Element Management System) Table that 111-222-3001 is assigned to RTX. RTX queries RTX to retrieve a temporary routing number.","In Step 4, RTX allocates a number from a temporary routing number block and assigns it to the call from A.","In Step 5, RTX responds back to RTX with the allocated number (444-222-6001).","In Step 6, the Analyzed Response is provided to the MSC (Connect to: 444-222-6001).","In Step 7, using a Translation Table, the MSC sends an IAM (Initial Address Message) message to RTX (Calling Party: A, Called Party: 444-222-6001).","In Step 8, RTX obtains the original dialed digits ((A, 444-222-6001)\u2192111-222-3001), and then obtains the group information based on (A, 111-222-3001).","In Step 9, the group call is completed or rejoined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0200","num":"0230"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"In Step 1, the user dials 111-222-3001 for Group 1.","In Step 2, this dialing string is analyzed by the MSC (Originator: A, Dialed: 111-222-3001), and routed to RTX.","In Step 3, RTX determines from the EMS Table that 111-222-3001 is assigned to RTX, but RTX is down (unavailable). RTX queries Geo-RTX to retrieve a temporary routing numbers.","In Step 4, Geo-RTX allocates a number from the temporary routing number block and assigns it to the call from A.","In Step 5, Geo-RTX responds back to RTX with the allocated number (666-777-1007).","In Step 6, the Analyzed Response is provided to the MSC (Connect to: 666-777-1007).","In Step 7, using the Translation Table, the MSC sends an IAM message to Geo-RTX (Calling Party: A, Called Party: 666-777-1007).","In Step 8, Geo-RTX obtains the group information based on ((A, 666-777-1007)\u2192111-222-3001).","In Step 9, the group call is completed or rejoined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0210","num":"0240"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},"In Step 1, the user dials 111-222-3002 for Group 2.","In Step 2, this dialing string is analyzed by the MSC (Originator: A, Dialed: 111-222-3002), and routed to RTX.","In Step 3, RTX determines from the EMS Table that 111-222-3002 is assigned to RTX, but RTX is down (unavailable), so RTX forwards the call to Geo-RTX, based on the EMS Table.","In Step 4, Geo-RTX allocates a number from the temporary routing number block and assigns it to the call from A.","In Step 5, Geo-RTX responds back to RTX with the allocated number (666-777-1008).","In Step 6, the Analyzed Response is provided to the MSC (Connect to: 666-777-1008).","In Step 7, using the Translation Table, the MSC sends an IAM message to Geo-RTX (Calling Party: A, Called Party: 666-777-1008).","In Step 8, Geo-RTX obtains the group information based on ((A, 666-777-1008)\u2192111-222-3002).","In Step 9, the group call is completed or rejoined.","8.3.2 Connected Applications Routing (Approach 2)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0221","num":"0251"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},"In Step 1, the user dials 111-222-3001 for Group 1.","In Step 2, this dialing string is analyzed by the MSC (Originator: A, Dialed: 111-222-3001), and routed to RTX.","In Step 3, RTX verifies the subscription for A and generates an Analyzed Response including a routing number that connects to itself, based on the EMS table.","In Step 4, RTX sends the Analyzed Response to the MSC (Connect to: 111-222-3001).","In Step 5, using the Translation Table, the MSC sends an IAM message to RTX (Calling Party: A, Called Party: 111-222-3001).","In Step 6, RTX obtains the group information based on (A, 111-222-3001).","In Step 7, the group call is completed or rejoined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0229","num":"0259"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},"In Step 1, the user dials 111-222-3001 for Group 1.","In Step 2, this dialing string is analyzed by the MSC (Originator: A, Dialed: 111-222-3001). The MSC determines that RTX is unavailable, and forwards the trigger to Geo-RTX.","In Step 3, Geo-RTX verifies the subscription for A and generates an Analyzed Response including a routing number from the temporary routing number block that connects to itself, based on the EMS, and assigns the routing number to the call from A.","In Step 4, Geo-RTX sends the Analyzed Response to the MSC (Connect to: 666-777-1001).","In Step 5, using the Translation Table, the MSC sends an IAM message to Geo-RTX (Calling Party: A, Called Party: 666-777-1001).","In Step 6, Geo-RTX obtains the group information based on (666-777-1001\u2192(A, 111-222-3001).","In Step 7, the group call is completed or rejoined.","8.3.3 Connected Applications Routing (Approach 3)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0238","num":"0268"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},"In Step 1, the user dials 111-222-3001 for Group 1.","In Step 2, using the Translation Table, the MSC sends an IAM message to RTX (Calling Party: A, Called Party: 111-222-3001).","In Step 3, RTX obtains the group information based on (A, 111-222-3001).","In Step 4, the group call is completed or rejoined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0243","num":"0273"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},"In Step 1, the user dials 111-222-3001 for Group 1.","In Step 2, this dialing string is analyzed by the MSC (Originator: A, Dialed: 111-222-3001), using the Translation Table, which identifies RTX. However, the MSC determines that RTX is unavailable. Using the Call Forwarding Table, the MSC sends an IAM message to Geo-RTX (Calling Party: A, Called Party: 666-777-3001, Original Dialed Number: 111-222-3001).","In Step 3, Geo-RTX obtains the group information based on (A, 111-222-3001).","In Step 4, the group call is completed or rejoined.","15 Conclusion","The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description, but rather by the claims appended hereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numbers represent corresponding parts throughout:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 18"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
