---
title: Method of determining profiles for widget channel viewers
abstract: In a digital content entertainment system, attributes vectors storing values for attributes of each of a plurality of widgets installed in the digital content entertainment system are obtained. A profiler component automatically creates at least one profile of a viewer of the digital content entertainment system by performing a spectral clustering process on the attributes vectors. The digital content entertainment system proactively obtains and presents digital content of interest to the viewer on a display of the digital content entertainment system based on the automatically generated viewer profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08635638&OS=08635638&RS=08635638
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08635638
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure generally relates to the field of computing and digital content usage. More particularly, an embodiment of the invention generally relates to automatically determining viewer profiles for a digital content entertainment system based on system usage.","When providing digital content for interactive television (TV) systems, there is a need to identify and\/or describe the viewer in order to target the available content to the viewer or to perform an action based on the viewer's attributes. One problem is that there is often a lack of participation on the part of the viewer in providing his or her interests or specifically entering a viewer profile. Therefore, there is a need to identify the demographics and interests of the viewer without requiring an \u201copt-in\u201d system and without forcing explicit inputs of that information from the viewer.","In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. However, various embodiments of the invention may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, procedures, components, and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the particular embodiments of the invention. Further, various aspects of embodiments of the invention may be performed using various means, such as integrated semiconductor circuits (\u201chardware\u201d), computer-readable instructions organized into one or more programs (\u201csoftware\u201d), or some combination of hardware and software. For the purposes of this disclosure reference to \u201clogic\u201d shall mean either hardware, software (including for example micro-code that controls the operations of a processor), or some combination thereof. Further, although steps of a process may be disclosed in a certain order, in various embodiments those steps may be rearranged or performed in parallel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","130","130","130","128","126","106","106","108","130","122","122","108","122","120","118","106","118","108","110","104","120","122","124","124"]},"Widgets are small Internet applications designed to complement and enhance the traditional TV watching experience and bring content, information and community features available on the Internet within easy reach of the remote control. In an embodiment, each Widget comprises a self-contained Javascript and XML application that runs in a managed runtime environment (such as the Widget Engine in one embodiment), enabling predictable and reliable operation. Widgets use the Internet to connect to the same back-end Web services that support conventional browser-based applications. These Web services can deliver a rich array of content and services to the TV Widgets. The user interface provides a convenient way of accessing Web-based information and other services on TV while concurrently watching television or another video stream. To ensure a responsive user experience, Widgets can operate continuously in the background, checking for and downloading fresh information from the Internet, even when the widgets are not visible on the TV display. The computing performance and memory resources of the Digital Content Entertainment System determine how many TV Widgets can run concurrently and receive data in the background.","Widgets  may be created by an application developer. To be made available to a viewer, a widget may be obtained via Widget Gallery Service component . In one embodiment, the Widget Gallery Service comprises a web site that offers widgets for downloading to the Widget Channel System. The Widget Gallery Service  handles back-end services for reporting, storage, security and signature verification. It provides the source for differentiated services and may be updated. The Widget Gallery Service supplies a control point for the administration of business policies, as well as services from third-party developers. The Widget Gallery may include a diverse collection of widgets from developers, service providers and consumer electronics manufacturers, all of whom may use the Widget Channel API  to develop widgets. The Gallery Widget  comprises a component of the Widget Channel System that provides the capability for viewers to download new widgets to the Digital Content Entertainment System. It is a special purpose platform widget that connects to back-end Widget Gallery Service , and which manages widget downloads to the Digital Content Entertainment System. The Gallery Widget can be used to help ensure only trusted widgets are downloaded. It can also present viewers with a selection of widgets that are available to download and run on the Digital Content Entertainment System.","Once the Widget Gallery Service processes a new Widget , the widget may be stored as one of the Widgets  available for use by a viewer of the Digital Content Entertainment System . When a viewer is using the Digital Content Entertainment System, the viewer may select a Widget  to be run by Widget Engine  (a managed run-time environment).","Individual viewers can find and select the Widgets they prefer using Search Widget . For example, a sports aficionado can download a sports Widget to stay current on scores and other sports related news with the press of a button, while still viewing the current program on display monitor (such as a TV). Viewers can use Widgets to find more information about their favorite team, or choose to interact more deeply by having the Widget take over the full screen. Service providers may provide viewers with continuous updates and recommendations about content of special interest to them.","Once the viewer finds a desirable widget, the viewer may download and install the widget to the viewer's Widget Channel System. In an embodiment, the Search Widget may include a \u201csearch by categories\u201d widget, where the categories represent attributes such as demographics, interests of viewers, genres of content, and the like. For example, one category may be age demographics, which may include values of children, ages 0-2, 2-4, 5-7, 8-10, 11-12, family, teen, young adult, adult, senior citizen, and so on. Another example category may be the gender of the viewer. Another example category may be location of the Digital Content Entertainment System, as represented by a zip code, a city, a state, or a country. Another example category relates to content genre, such as sports, drama, comedy, news, etc. Many categories of widgets may be available to search for using a Search Widget, and these examples are illustrative and not limiting. Each category may be represented by an associated attribute and attribute value for the widget. For example, for an entertainment widget geared to 5 to 7 year old boys in Los Angeles, Calif., the widget may have the attributes of age, gender, location, and the attribute values of 5-7, male, and 90210, respectively.","As viewers select, download, install, and run widgets over time, information may be collected regarding widget usage by one or more viewers. In an embodiment, this information may be used to automatically determine profiles of viewers of the Digital Content Entertainment System. In an embodiment, the determining of profiles may be performed by a Profiler  component of the Digital Content Entertainment System. Profiler component may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or a combination of these implementations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["206","202","200","204","132","206","206","208","132"]},"Profiler  may be activated to automatically determine profiles for the viewers of the Digital Content Entertainment System without explicitly polling the viewers for input data. That is, the Profiler determines profiles based on observed viewing and widget control behavior of the viewers. In one embodiment, the Profiler uses the widget attribute information stored in the Widget Attributes Database to determine the profiles. Operation of the Profiler to determine and\/or update profiles for viewers may be performed at certain points in time, depending on the specific implementation of the Profiler. For example, in an embodiment, the Profiler may be executed once per week, once every two weeks, once per month, or another selected time frame. In another embodiment, the Profiler may be executed once for every specified number of new widgets installed (e.g., every 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, etc.). In an embodiment, the Profiler may be executed whenever a widget is uninstalled. In an embodiment, viewer profiles may be stored in a storage device within the Digital Content Entertainment System.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["300","302","132","304","306","308","310","312"]},"At block , the average of the age attribute values may be computed based on the cluster that a selected attribute vector (representing the widget being analyzed) belongs to, in order to determine the age for the at least one viewer profile. At block , a majority vote may be performed on the gender attribute values based on the cluster that a selected attribute vector belongs to, in order to determine the gender for the at least one viewer profile. At block , the Profile may compute a ranking list of the rest of the attributes (other than age, gender, zip code, and income level), based on the number of the attribute values that are present. In various embodiments, any number of additional attributes may be used. In an embodiment, another attribute may be genre. For example if for a genre attribute there are 15 \u2018Fiction\u2019 widgets and 10 \u2018Nature\u2019 widgets, then the ranking list will have \u2018Fiction\u2019 first and \u2018Nature\u2019 second with a weight for each entry. In an embodiment, the weight may be computed as a normalization, i.e., \u2018Fiction=15+10\/25\u2019. At block , the Profiler may create one profile per cluster by using the determined age, gender, zip code, income level, and ranking list. In an embodiment, the Profiler may combine multiple attribute vectors to represent a single viewer and the viewer's profile. The result of the profiling process may be a set of one or more viewer profiles corresponding to each of one or more viewers.  is an example of a set of profiles which may be determined by the automatic profile determining process.","Once a viewer profile has been determined, the viewer profile may be referenced by the Widget Channel System in order to proactively obtain and present digital content and\/or widgets that may be likely to be of interest to the viewer at block . The selected digital content and\/or widgets may be shown on a display coupled to the Digital Content Entertainment System.","The process for automatically determining viewer profiles as described herein does not use an \u201copt-in\u201d strategy, does not require viewer registration, respects the privacy of the viewer (due to no querying for name, address, or other private information), and does not require a viewer login or explicit profile enrollment. Furthermore, embodiments of the present invention do not assume a certain number of household members (viewers) or groups in the home.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 1-6","FIG. 7"],"b":["600","600","600","610","608","130","604","608","130"]},"Various operations discussed herein may be performed by processor  in some embodiments. Processor  may include a general purpose processor, or other types of a processor (including a reduced instruction set computer (RISC) processor or a complex instruction set computer (CISC)). Processor  may have a single or multiple core design. Processors  with a multiple core design may integrate different types of processor cores on the same integrated circuit (IC) die. Also, the processors  with a multiple core design may be implemented as symmetrical or asymmetrical multiprocessors. Moreover, some of the operations discussed with reference to  may be performed by one or more components of the Media Processing System .","Memory  may store data, including sequences of instructions that are executed by the processor , or by any other device included in the media processing system . Furthermore, memory  may store one or more of the programs or algorithms discussed herein such Profiler  to perform automatic determination of viewer profiles, instructions corresponding to executables, mappings, etc. The same or at least a portion of this data (including instructions) may be stored in a hard disk drive (not shown in ) and\/or one or more caches within processors . In one embodiment of the invention, the memory  may include one or more volatile storage (or memory) devices such as random access memory (RAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), static RAM (SRAM), or other types of storage devices. Nonvolatile memory may also be utilized such as a hard disk.","In an embodiment, Media Processing System  may include a memory controller  to interface with memory  and other components internal to the media processing system. System interconnect  comprises a bus for interconnecting components within the media processing system. NAND flash controller  may be coupled to a NAND storage device (not shown) for purposes of secure booting and code\/data storage and to system interconnect . A multi-format hardware decoder  may be included to decode single stream and multi-stream video data in various well known formats. In an embodiment, decoder performs multi-stream decode and display of up to 1920\u00d71080p at 60 frames per second and single stream decode and display at approximately twice that rate. Display processor  may provide scaling, noise reduction, and motion adaptive de-interlacing operations on video data. Graphics processor  may provide a three dimensional (3D) shader architecture. Video display controller  may provide universal planes supporting both video and graphics pixels, blending operations supporting sideband, global, and per-pixel alpha blending per plane, and scaling operations. Transport processor  may provide programmable transport demux and two serial transport stream interfaces. Security processor  may provide two smart card interfaces, high definition content protection (HDCP) for high definition media interface (HDMI) data transfers, and hardware acceleration of security processing. Digital signal processor (DSP)  may support audio decoding operations. General input\/output (I\/O)  may support connections over well known interfaces such as universal serial bus (USB), serial advanced technology attachment (SATA), and Ethernet, and may connect to computer networks such as the Internet. Audio and Video I\/O  may provide an interface to display  for output of video data as well as an interface to speakers (not shown) for audio output.","In an embodiment of the invention, display  may be a flat panel display that communicates with audio and video I\/O  through, for example, a signal converter that translates a digital representation of an image stored in a storage device such as video memory or system memory into display signals that are interpreted and displayed by the display . The display signals produced by the audio and video I\/O  may pass through various control devices (not shown for simplicity) before being interpreted by and subsequently displayed on the display .","Digital Content Entertainment System  may include volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory (or storage). For example, nonvolatile memory may include one or more of the following: read-only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically EPROM (EEPROM), a disk drive, a floppy disk, a compact disk ROM (CD-ROM), a digital versatile disk (DVD), flash memory, a magneto-optical disk, or other types of nonvolatile machine-readable media that are capable of storing electronic data (e.g., including instructions).","In various embodiments of the invention, the operations discussed herein, e.g., with reference to , may be implemented as hardware (e.g., logic circuitry), software (including, for example, micro-code that controls the operations of a processor such as the processors discussed with reference to ), firmware, or combinations thereof, which may be provided as a computer program product, e.g., including a tangible machine-readable or computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions (or software procedures) used to program a computer (e.g., a processor or other logic of a computing device) to perform an operation discussed herein. The machine-readable medium may include a storage device such as those discussed herein.","Reference in the specification to \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least an implementation. The appearances of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d in various places in the specification may or may not be all referring to the same embodiment.","Also, in the description and claims, the terms \u201ccoupled\u201d and \u201cconnected,\u201d along with their derivatives, may be used. In some embodiments of the invention, \u201cconnected\u201d may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. \u201cCoupled\u201d may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However, \u201ccoupled\u201d may also mean that two or more elements may not be in direct contact with each other, but may still cooperate or interact with each other.","Additionally, such computer-readable media may be downloaded as a computer program product, wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer (e.g., a server) to a requesting computer (e.g., a client) by way of data signals, via a communication link (e.g., a bus, a modem, or a network connection).","Thus, although embodiments of the invention have been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that claimed subject matter may not be limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather, the specific features and acts are disclosed as sample forms of implementing the claimed subject matter."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The detailed description is provided with reference to the accompanying figures. The use of the same reference numbers in different figures indicates similar or identical items.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 2 and 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
