---
title: Social networking management server
abstract: A social media management server (MS) provides a single authentication point for a client device to log in to multiple social networking accounts. Through the MS, the client device can pull social networking updates to it or have them pushed to the client device. Also, the MS provides a set of APIs for all enabled client devices to interact with social networking sites/services. The MS updates APIs between itself and the social networking sites/services without changing the APIs between itself and client devices in that only mandatory changes in the MS-to-social networking servers APIs are propagated to the APIs between the MS and client devices to reduce the API update requirements on the client side.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495710&OS=09495710&RS=09495710
owner: SONY CORPORATION
number: 09495710
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100920
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The present application relates generally to social networking management servers for managing user access to multiple user social networking accounts.","\u201cSocial media\u201d is term that encompasses an Internet subset: websites that primarily allow users to interact with each other in a variety of ways. Well known social media sites include Facebook\u00ae, Twitter\u00ae, and MySpace\u00ae. A social network service, typically embodied by a social network server on the Internet, focuses on the online building and reflecting social networks or social relations among people, e.g., who share interests and\/or activities. The process of building online communities through social networking Internet sites hosted by social networking Internet servers is often accomplished both through \u2018groups\u2019 and \u2018friends lists\u2019 that allow greater interaction on websites. Social networking sites allow people to easily and simply create their own online page or profile and to construct and display an online network of contacts. Such sites have met with success: more than four in five US online adults now participate in or consume social media at least once a month. Almost one-quarter of U.S. online adults are creators, i.e., people who write blogs, upload original audio or video to their online \u201cfriends\u201d, or post stories online.","As understood, as social networking sites proliferate, users often become members of multiple sites. As also understood herein, managing the various authorizations to log on to multiple sites along with contending with varying and different application programming interfaces (APIs) provided by the various sites can grow into time consuming tasks, as many user typically wish to exchange the same information over more than a single social networking site simultaneously.","Accordingly, a computing device includes a processor and a video display controlled by the processor. The processor presents on the video display a user interface (UI) to enable a user to manage plural social networking accounts. The processor sends to a management server (MS) information related to plural social networking site accounts in which a user of the client device is enrolled, with the client device subsequently logging in to the plural social networking accounts by a single login with the MS.","In some embodiments, once login by the client device at the MS is successful, the client device presents a list of all the current social networking accounts, thereby enabling a user to select one or more accounts and interact with each or all of them directly. Data transfer and communication do not go through the MS but rather are communicated directly between the client device and an appropriate social networking site server (SS).","As set forth further below, if desired the processor causes a pull UI to be presented on the display to enable a user to pull related update\/notification RSS feeds from one or more SS. Additionally or in lieu of the pull UI the processor may cause a push UI to be presented on the display to enable a user to cause the MS to request updates from all SS with which the user has accounts, using the account information provided by the user. The client device receives the updates through the MS.","In non-limiting examples the push UI permits the user to select to have updates from all social networking accounts of the user or to select only specific social networking accounts from which updates are pushed. The processor may further cause a disposition UI to be presented on the display to allow a user to select what to do with updates received from a SS. The disposition UI can enable a user to select to have updates automatically pop up on the display as the updates are received or stored in an inbox for later access.","In another aspect, a social media management server (MS) provides a single authentication point for a client device to log in to multiple social networking accounts. The MS provides a set of application programming interfaces (APIs) for the client device to interact with social networking servers (SS). Also, the MS updates at least some APIs between itself and the SS without changing APIs between itself and the client device in that only mandatory changes in MS-to-SS APIs are propagated to APIs between the MS and client device.","In another aspect, a method includes using a management server (MS) as a single login gateway for a client to log in to plural social networking site servers (SS) using a single user name and password sent to the MS. The method also includes updating application programming interfaces (API) between the MS and client device responsive to a determination that an API between the MS and a SS has been changed with a mandatory change and not updating API between the MS and client device responsive to a determination that an API between the MS and a SS has been changed with a non-mandatory change.","The details of the present invention, both as to its structure and operation, can best be understood in reference to the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals refer to like parts, and in which:","Referring initially to , a social networking client device  such as a TV (as shown) or a personal digital assistant, laptop computer, personal computer (PC), \u201csmart\u201d wireless telephone, etc. includes a housing  bearing a digital processor . The processor  can control a visual display  and an audible display such as one or more speakers. The processor  may access a media player module such that the device  has media decoding capability.","To undertake present principles, the processor  may access one or more computer readable storage media  such, as but not limited to RAM-based storage, a chip implementing dynamic random access memory (DRAM)) or flash memory or disk storage. Software code implementing present logic executable by the device  may be stored on one of the memories shown to undertake present principles. Also, one or more Internet browsers may be stored on the medium  and executed by the processor  to access servers on the Internet.","The processor  can receive user input signals from various input devices, including a keyboard or keypad  (hereinafter \u201ckeypad\u201d without loss of generality), a point and click device such as a TV remote control (RC) , etc. A network interface  such as a wired or wireless modem or wireless telephony transceiver may also be provided and may communicate with the processor  so that information can be exchanged between the client device  over the Internet  with a social networking management server (MS)  and plural social networking site servers (SS) . The MS server  includes one or more server processors  and one or more server storage devices  bearing computer readable instructions that may be accessed by the processor  to execute relevant logic discussed below. The memories herein are contemplated to be non-transitory. The SS  likewise have respective processors and computer readable storage media. When the client device  is embodied as a TV as shown, it includes a TV tuner .","In accordance with present principles and as described more fully below, the client device  is enabled to both pull social networking \u201creally simple solution\u201d (RSS) feeds from the SS  and to have such feeds pushed to it. Such RSS feeds typically are for publishing frequently updated works such as blog entries, audio, and video and usually include text and metadata such as publication date and author name. These feeds benefit social networking site \u201cfriends\u201d who wish to subscribe to timely updates from other members of the social network.","Furthermore, as discussed below present principles provide for a seamless and single set of APIs between the MS  and various types of client devices so that API changes on the client side are minimized. Also, the MS  manages house-keeping and changes with social networking services' APIs and provides authentication for client devices. Data communication bandwidth of the MS  is reduced because client devices communicate directly with the SS  after authentication, so that any necessary scaling can be done by the SS .","Now referring to , at block  the client device  informs the MS  of all the social networking site accounts the user of the client device is enrolled in. Proceeding to block  the MS  establishes a single login for a management account for the client device  by which the client device  can log in simultaneously to all social networking sites to which it belongs. In one example embodiment the MS  does this by presenting a UI on the client device  instructing the user to enter a universal social networking site name and password. Then, at block , for subsequent user logins to the MS  the MS  determines whether authentication is successful. If so, at block  the MS  automatically logs the client device  onto the various SS  associated with the user's social networking sites by using the account information provided at block  and specifically by providing the respective user name and password to each SS .","Once login by the client device  at the MS  (and, hence, the SS ) is successful, the client device  is presented with a list of all the current social networking services. The client device enables a user to select one or more services and interacts with each or all of them directly. After this point, data transfer and communication does not go through the MS  but rather is between the client device  and appropriate SS .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["48","30","12","30","32","50","30","32","52","54","12","30","52","30","12","30","12"]},"As an example, suppose a SS  determines that it wishes to add a field requesting the user's salary. Such information normally is not required by Internet servers, but is optional on the user's part. Accordingly, in such a scenario the client device API would remain unchanged, with the MS  simply ignoring the salary request from the SS . On the other hand, if a SS  changes its privacy policy and mandates that users agree to the change, then the MS  propagates the API change at block  to change the client device API accordingly.","Now moving to , at block  the SS  receiving a social networking site update for the user of the client device  provides an update address such as a uniform resource locator (URL) to the MS . The MS  causes the address to be presented to the client device  so that a user can click on the link at block  to pull related update\/notification RSS feeds from the SS . At block , in response to the user selection the SS  sends the RSS feeds to the client device . In this way, a device client can receive updates and notification via RSS feeds by \u201cpulling\u201d a URL provided by the social networking service SS .","In contrast,  shows that the client device  may receive such RSS feeds from a SS  through a hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) GET request. Specifically, at block  the MS  provides a \u201cpush\u201d API for all the user's social networking services\/sites to post status\/updates\/notification. The user then points an update\/status URL of the client device  to this API and for send operations from the client device , all of the electronic clients that belong or follow\/subscribe to his\/her account will receive updates\/status\/notification in real-time. An example API is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"http:\/\/ms.internetv.sony.tv\/shareFromWorld\/?service_id=4&service_name=Facebook&acc"},{"entry":"ount_id=104532&timestamp=2010-02-05T10:00:00-"},{"entry":"06:00&sig=F2305562068CA0959DE6437EF382GH65&header=this is the header of the"},{"entry":"status, update or notification&body=this is the message body&geolocation=43.04.50.3."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"(ms = MS 32, \u201csig\u201d is used to verify the authenticity of the HTTP GET). The SS 32 in the above example supports the Facebook service."}]}}}}},"For receiving updated from the various SS , at block  the user of the client device  clicks on the push URL causing the MS  at block  to request updates such as RSS feeds from all SS  with which the user has accounts, using the account information provided by the user at block  of . Proceeding to block , updates are sent by the SS  through the MS  to the client device  albeit without being permanently stored at the MS . The client device  thus has updates sent from all SS  with which it has accounts pushed to it using the logic of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["72","18","72","70","30","32","68"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["74","18","32","18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Facebook:"},{"entry":"http:\/\/ms.internetv.sony.tv\/shareToWorld\/?service_id=4&service_name=Facebook&accou"},{"entry":"nt_id=104532&timestamp=2010-02-05T10:00:00-"},{"entry":"06:00&sig=F2305562068CA0959DE6437EF382GH65&header=Check out cool"},{"entry":"video&body=Video about Sony newest 3-D glassless"},{"entry":"TV&geolocation=43.04.50.30&photo=meOnMyNewCouchWatching3-"},{"entry":"DBraviaTV.jpg&video=cool3-DBraviaDemo.avi."},{"entry":"Twitter:"},{"entry":"http:\/\/ms.internetv.sony.tv\/shareToWorld\/?service_id=3&service_name=Twitter&account"},{"entry":"_id=104&timestamp=2010-02-05T10:00:00-"},{"entry":"06:00&sig=F2305562068CA0959DE6437EF382GH659934&header=My lazy"},{"entry":"status&body=Watching Hancock&geolocation=43.04.50.32."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The interaction with social networking services includes uploading media files (photo, music, video, etc), posting texts (updates, comments, status, etc), getting text updates and notifications via RSS feeds or other scheduling\/notification system provided by the social networking service, and broadcasting texts to one or multiple social networking service. The seamless set of API provide a single interface for existing and new client devices to quickly connect and interact with a wide variety of social networking sites. The API enable fast development on the client side since the adherence to the social networking services' APIs have already been established by the MS . Since all the client devices use the same set of APIs, and all the house-keeping and necessary communication channel is performed by the MS , future social networking services can be easily added\/included into the \u201csocial networking service lists\u201d that are available to the client devices. The client device does not need to perform a software update to access and enjoy a new social networking service. Once the new social networking service has coordinated information exchange with the MS , it can be added and activated by the MS .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["76","18","32"]},"While the particular SOCIAL NETWORKING MANAGEMENT SERVER is herein shown and described in detail, it is to be understood that the subject matter which is encompassed by the present invention is limited only by the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
