---
title: Mobile application performance management
abstract: In one embodiment, a non-transitory processor-readable medium stores code representing instructions that when executed cause a processor to receive a first signal including a performance datum associated with a first mobile application resident at a mobile device. The code can further represent instructions that when executed cause the processor to receive a second signal including a performance datum associated with a second mobile application resident at the mobile device. The code can further represent instructions that when executed cause the processor to send, based on the first signal and the second signal, a third signal including at least one performance metric based at least in part on the performance datum associated with the first mobile application and the performance datum associated with the second mobile application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09158650&OS=09158650&RS=09158650
owner: Boxtone, Inc.
number: 09158650
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110511
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61\/370,482 entitled \u201cMobile Application Performance Management\u201d filed on Aug. 4, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Embodiments described herein relate generally to software performance analysis and management, and more particularly to methods and apparatus for mobile device application performance analysis and management.","Developers of mobile device software applications generally seek to optimize the end-user experience to make an application more desirable to consumers. A key part of this optimization is improving application execution speeds and minimizing performance anomalies and errors. Many software developers perform a series of tests on their applications to discover such errors, often through one or more rounds of user testing of limited-release \u201calpha\u201d or \u201cbeta\u201d versions of an application. However, results of such tests are often insufficiently robust given their relatively limited scope and scale. Thus, many performance anomalies and errors often go undiscovered by mobile application developers, resulting in suboptimal application performance.","Thus, a need exists for methods and apparatus that programmatically gather mobile application performance and error information, correlate the information with other relevant data about the mobile device on which the application is being executed and report the information for subsequent developer analysis. A need further exists for methods and apparatus that gather, correlate and report such information in a manner that minimizes strain on the limited computation hardware and battery resources present in most mobile devices. Such functionality can inform updates and improvements to mobile device applications issued by the developer.","In one embodiment, a non-transitory processor-readable medium stores code representing instructions that when executed cause a processor to receive a first signal including a performance datum associated with a first mobile application resident at a mobile device. The code can further represent instructions that when executed cause the processor to receive a second signal including a performance datum associated with a second mobile application resident at the mobile device. The code can further represent instructions that when executed cause the processor to send, based on the first signal and the second signal, a third signal including at least one performance metric based at least in part on the performance datum associated with the first mobile application and the performance datum associated with the second mobile application.","A mobile application performance management system can include one or more mobile devices, each executing one or more mobile applications (\u201capps\u201d). Any of the one or more mobile devices can execute at least one expert process configured to receive, analyze and\/or report performance, error, event and\/or other information from one or more mobile apps executing at that mobile device. The expert process can be any combination of hardware and\/or software (executing in hardware) instantiated at a mobile device. In some embodiments, the expert process can be a software module resident in memory of a mobile device, and in communication with at least one mobile app instantiated at that mobile device. The expert process can optionally exchange mobile app information (e.g., performance and\/or error information) according to a predefined Application Programming Interface (API). The one or more mobile apps can be defined based at least in part on a predefined Software Development Kit (SDK) configured to enable use of the API by a mobile app.","Each of the mobile devices can be configured to exchange information via a network, such as a cellular data network, a wired and\/or wireless computer network, etc. For example, each of the mobile devices can be configured to communicate with an enterprise application server via a private enterprise network. Each of the mobile devices can additionally or alternatively be configured to communicate with a cloud application server via, for example, a public network (such as the Internet). Additionally, each of the mobile devices can communicate with a management server via a public or private network. In some embodiments, a mobile enterprise app instantiated at a mobile device can exchange enterprise application data packets with a server-side enterprise application executing at an enterprise application server. In some embodiments, a mobile cloud-based app instantiated at a mobile device can exchange cloud-based application data packets with a cloud-based application executing at a cloud application server.","An expert process executing at a mobile device can optionally perform one or more analytic operations on performance and\/or other data (e.g., error data) received from one or more mobile apps to define performance metric information associated therewith. In some embodiments, the expert process can send, via a network, the received performance information and\/or calculated performance metric information. For example, an expert process can send performance information associated with a mobile app to a management server. The management server can be any combination of hardware and\/or software configured to receive, aggregate, analyze and\/or report (e.g., send, display, etc.) performance, performance metric, error, alert, event, and\/or other information associated with the one or more mobile devices. In some embodiments, the management server can be physically and\/or logically located within a private network, such as an enterprise network. Alternatively, the management server can be in communication with multiple networks and\/or mobile devices associated with multiple organizations and\/or entities. In some embodiments, the management server can receive additional mobile app performance information from one or more enterprise application servers and\/or cloud-based application servers. In this manner, the management server can receive information from, and\/or associated with, various mobile app types.","Upon receipt of mobile app information from an expert process, enterprise application server and\/or cloud-based application server, the management server can store the received mobile app information at a memory. In some embodiments, the management server can perform one or more operations on the received information, such as one or more analytic operations configured to calculate average, aggregate, periodic, and\/or other metrics associated with the received mobile app data. The management server can then optionally send the calculated performance metrics to a client device for storage and\/or display. For example, the management server can send the received and\/or calculated information to a client device in response to a user-initiated request or according to a periodic reporting schedule.","The management server can also perform one or more operations in response to a received signal indicating an error or other alert associated with a mobile app. For example, the management server can send a signal to a mobile device at which a mobile app experiencing the error is executing. The signal can include instructions to cause the mobile device and\/or the mobile app to change a system, user, or application setting, and\/or perform one or more other operations configured to remedy the error.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","110","120","130","150","160","170","140","110","120","130","111","113","121","123","131","133","110","120","130","110","120","130","115","125","135","150","152","154","170","172","174","160","162","164","160","100","110","120","130","160"]},"Each or any of the mobile devices ,  and  can be any application-enabled mobile device capable of exchanging information with other computing devices via a communications network. For example, the mobile devices ,  and  can each be any of: a cellular telephone, smartphone, personal digital assistant (PDA), laptop, notebook, netbook or tablet computer, smart meter, or other fixed or portable communication and\/or computing device. The mobile devices ,  and  can each include communication hardware and\/or software configured to send information to and\/or receive information from other computing devices, such as the other computing devices disclosed herein. Although three mobile devices are shown in , in some embodiments any non-zero number of mobile devices may be included in the mobile application performance management system .","Each of the expert processes ,  and  included in the mobile devices ,  and , respectively, can be any combination of hardware and\/or software (executing in hardware) configured to receive, measure, calculate and\/or report information associated with a mobile app. For example, the expert process  executing on the mobile device  can be configured to receive performance, error, anomaly, alert, event and\/or feature information associated with one or more of the mobile apps -. More specifically, the expert process  can receive the above-described information in accordance with one or more predefined protocols and\/or communication standards, such as an Application Programming Interface (API) defined for communication between a mobile app and an expert process such as the expert process . In some embodiments, the expert processes ,  and  can receive the above-described information according to a predetermined and\/or predefined schedule. Alternatively, the expert processes ,  and  can receive performance information from one or more mobile apps in response to the occurrence of an event (e.g., an error) at one of the mobile apps -, - and -, respectively. In the example, the expert process  can accordingly send this received, measured, calculated and\/or reported information to the management server  via the network . Although not shown in , any of the expert processes ,  and  can receive information from any of the enterprise application server , the management server  and the cloud application server , via the network . Although not shown in , in some embodiments any of the expert processes , , and  can alternatively be embedded within a mobile application, such as any (e.g., one or more) of the mobile apps -, - and -, respectively. In such embodiments, the embedded expert process can send information associated with the mobile application in which it is embedded to another expert process operating at the mobile device and\/or directly to a server (e.g., the management server ).","Each or any of the apps -, - and - can be a mobile application configured to execute on a mobile device, such as the mobile devices ,  and , respectively. One or more of the mobile apps -, - and - can be a client-side mobile app associated with an enterprise application, such as one of the enterprise applications  and  (described below). In some embodiments, one or more of the mobile apps -, - and - can be a client-side mobile app associated with a cloud application, such as one of the cloud applications  and  (described below). Although not shown in , any of the mobile apps -, - and - can be configured to send, to an expert process, information associated with that mobile app. For example, the mobile app  can optionally send performance, error, event and\/or other information to the expert process  executing at the mobile device . In the example, the expert process  can then send the received information, and\/or one or more metrics derived therefrom, to the management server  via the network  (as described further below).","The network  can be any computer or information network capable of marshalling and transmitting data between two or more hardware devices. For example, the network  can be a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN) or the Internet. In some embodiments, the network  can be comprised of one or more wired and\/or wirelessly connected hardware devices. As shown in , the network  can operatively couple and\/or connect or more of the mobile devices ,  and  to any of the enterprise application server , the management server  and the cloud application server .","The enterprise application server  can be any combination of hardware and\/or software (executing in hardware) configured to execute one or more enterprise applications, such as the enterprise applications  and . For example, the enterprise application server  can be a server device configured to execute an accounting system, corporate e-mail server application, and\/or other application configured to provide functionality to one or more client devices associated with an organization (e.g., one or more of the mobile devices ,  and ). In some embodiments, the enterprise application server  can be operatively and\/or physically coupled to the network  via, for example, a wired and\/or wireless connection, via, for example one or more line cards, wired and\/or wireless Ethernet cards, etc. Although not shown in , the enterprise application  and\/or the enterprise application  can be configured to send one or more signals to the management server  via the network . For example, the enterprise application  can send one or more signals including information associated with performance of the enterprise application  and\/or one or more alerts, events or errors associated therewith.","The management server  can be any combination of hardware and\/or software (executing in hardware) configured to execute one or more management applications associated with the mobile devices ,  and  and\/or one or more apps executing thereon. As shown in , the management server  includes the analytics module  and the reporting module . In some embodiments, the management server  can be a server device operatively and\/or physically coupled to the mobile devices ,  and  via the network . The management server  can optionally, via the analytics module , perform one or more operations, calculations and\/or determinations associated with the mobile devices ,  and  and\/or the mobile apps executing thereon (e.g., the mobile apps -, - and -). For example, the analytics module  can perform the one or more operations, calculations and\/or determinations on and\/or with the performance, error, anomaly, event and\/or feature information received from one or more of the expert processes , ,  (as described above). In another example, the reporting module  can be configured to output information associated with the mobile devices ,  and , the expert processes ,  and  and\/or the mobile apps -, - and -. More specifically, the reporting module  can output, at a display, results from one or more operations performed by the analytics module . Alternatively, the reporting module  can send one or more signals to another device for output thereat. In some embodiments, the management server  can include one or more modules configured to perform an error correction task associated with a mobile app executing at a mobile device (not shown in ).","The cloud application server  can be any combination of hardware and\/or software configured to execute one or more cloud-based applications, such as the cloud application  and the cloud application . As shown in , the cloud application server  can be operatively and\/or physically coupled to the network  via a wired and\/or wireless link. As also shown in , the cloud application  and\/or the cloud application  can communicate with any of the mobile devices ,  and  via the network . In some embodiments, the cloud application  and the cloud application  can be any cloud-based software application, such as a cloud-based e-mail application, a cloud-based word processing application, a cloud-based storage application, etc. Although not shown in , the cloud application  and the cloud application  can be configured to send one or more signals to the management server  via the network . For example, the cloud application  can send one or more signals including information associated with performance of the cloud application  and\/or one or more alerts, events or errors associated therewith.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","110","120","130","200","210","220","230","240","220","221","222","223","200","200"]},"The processor  can be any processor (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or a field programmable gate array (FPGA)) configured to execute one or more instructions received from, for example, the memory . In some embodiments, the processor  can be a mobile device microprocessor specifically designed to execute on or within a mobile device. As shown in , the processor  can be in communication with any of the memory , the display  and the line card . In some embodiments, the processor  can accordingly send information (e.g., data, instructions and\/or network data packets) to and\/or receive information from any of the memory , the display  and the line card .","The memory  can be any memory (e.g., a RAM, a ROM, a hard disk drive, an optical drive, other removable media) configured to store information (e.g., a mobile operating system, one or more apps, one or more expert processes, media content, text content, contact information, etc.). As shown in , the memory  can include a mobile app , a mobile app  and an expert process . In some embodiments, the memory  can include instructions (e.g., code) sufficient to define and\/or execute the mobile app , the mobile app  and the expert process . Each of the mobile apps  and  can optionally be similar to any of the mobile apps -, - and - discussed in connection with  above. The expert process  can optionally be similar to any of the expert processes ,  and  also discussed in connection with  above. In some embodiments, any of the mobile apps - and\/or the expert process  can be stored at the memory  at a time of purchase of the mobile device . Alternatively, any of the mobile apps - and\/or the expert process  can be stored at the memory  in response to a download initiated by a user of the mobile device  (e.g., a download from an online marketplace such as an app store, a download performed in response to an instruction from an enterprise server to which the mobile device is connected, etc.).","The memory  can also alternatively store one or more resources (e.g., software resources such as drivers, code libraries, etc.) associated with the mobile app , the mobile app  and the expert process . In some embodiments, the memory  can further store mobile app performance information received and\/or calculated by the expert process , such as mobile app performance, error, alert, event and\/or other reporting information.","The display  can be any display configured to display information to a user of the mobile device . For example, the display  can be a liquid crystal display (LCD), a light-emitting diode (LED) display, an organic light-emitting diode (OLED) display, a touchscreen, a tactile display, or other screen or display type. As shown in , the display  can receive information from the memory  and\/or the processor . Although not shown in , in some embodiments the display  can receive information from the processor  and\/or the memory  via one or more intermediary modules, such as one or more embedded hardware modules (e.g., a video hardware module). In some embodiments, the display  can display information associated with one or more of the apps  and .","The line card  can be a hardware module (e.g., a wired and\/or wireless Ethernet card, a cellular network interface card) configured to transmit information (e.g., data packets, cells, etc.) from and receive information at the mobile device . As shown in , the line card  can be operatively and\/or physically coupled to the processor . In this manner, the processor  can, via the line card , exchange information with one or more other devices via a network (e.g. the cloud application server  and the network  discussed in connection with  above).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","160","300","310","320","330","320","321","322","323","300","300"]},"The processor  can be any processor (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or a field programmable gate array (FPGA)) configured to execute one or more instructions received from, for example, the memory . As shown in , the processor  can be in communication with any of the memory  and the line card . In some embodiments, the processor  can accordingly send information (e.g., data, instructions and\/or network data packets) to and\/or receive information from any of the memory  and the line card .","The memory  can be any memory (e.g., a RAM, a ROM, a hard disk drive, an optical drive, other removable media) configured to store information (e.g., a server operating system, a desktop operating system, one or software applications, etc.). As shown in , the memory  can include an analytics module , a reporting module  and an error correction module . In some embodiments, the memory  can include instructions (e.g., code) sufficient to define and\/or execute the analytics module , the reporting module  and the error correction module . The memory  can also alternatively store one or more resources (e.g., software resources such as drivers, code libraries, etc.) associated with the analytics module , the reporting module  and the error correction module . In some embodiments, the memory  can further store mobile app performance information received from one or more mobile devices, mobile app performance metrics calculated based thereon, etc.","As described in connection with the analytics module  of , the analytics module  can optionally be a software module configured to perform one or more operations on information associated with one or more mobile apps. For example, the analytics module  can perform one or more performance calculations associated with one or more mobile apps, such as average performance speed, average number of errors, total number of errors, average crash rate, total number of crashes, average startup time, average uptime, processor usage rates, network connectivity status, network connectivity history, etc. In some embodiments, the analytics module  can perform the above-described calculations and\/or one or more other calculations for multiple instances of the same mobile app stored, instantiated and\/or executing at multiple mobile devices. In this manner, the analytics module  can determine and\/or display to a user a performance level for a given mobile app, for a given group of mobile apps, etc. Additionally, the analytics module  can optionally determine any of the above-described metrics for a given period of time (e.g., a user-specified period of time, a predetermined interval of time, etc.).","As described in connection with the reporting module  of , the reporting module  can optionally be a software module configured to define and\/or output (e.g., display at a visual display or other output device) mobile app performance information associated with one or more mobile apps instantiated at one or more mobile devices. More specifically, the reporting module  can define one or more reports (e.g., periodic reports, on-demand reports, event-driven reports) including analytics and\/or other performance information calculated by the analytics module . For example, the reporting module  can receive performance information associated with a given mobile app instantiated and\/or executing at multiple mobile devices, and define a report indicating one or more performance metrics associated therewith. In the example, the reporting module  can next send the report for output at a display (e.g., a display of a client device operatively coupled to the management server ). In some embodiments, the reporting module  can optionally store the report at a memory for later access and\/or retrieval, such as a database or other memory operatively coupled to the management server  (not shown in ). In this manner, the reporting module  can store mobile app performance information for subsequent access and\/or use in determining long-term analytics, performance analytics and the like for a given mobile app, set of mobile apps, etc.","The error correction module  can be any combination of hardware and\/or software (e.g., a software module) configured to receive, from a mobile device, an indication of an error, alert and\/or anomaly, and accordingly perform one or more operations configured to remedy the indicated issue. For example, the error correction module  can receive, from a mobile device operatively coupled to the management server  (not shown in ), a signal including an indication that the mobile device has an amount of available memory below a predetermined threshold, that the mobile device has an amount of remaining battery power below a predetermined threshold, and\/or that the mobile device is currently unable to connect to a specified network and\/or network resource.","In some embodiments, the error correction module  can, in response to the received signal, perform one or more actions. For example, the error correction module  can optionally send a response signal to the mobile device that includes a response message for review by a user of the mobile device. The response message can be a text, audio and\/or video message, and can include one or more instructions configured to enable the user to remedy the error or other issue indicated by the original error signal. For example, if the original error signal includes an indication that the mobile device is low on battery power, the response message can include an instruction to disable one or more unneeded mobile device services (e.g., Wi-Fi connectivity, Bluetooth connectivity, etc.), to reduce screen brightness, close one or more unused or infrequently-used mobile apps, etc. Alternatively, if the original error signal includes an indication that the amount of available memory currently available on the mobile device is below a predetermined threshold, the response message can include an instruction to clear one or more caches of the device, use an external memory (e.g., a flash memory device) to supplement the mobile device memory, close and\/or delete one or more mobile apps stored at the mobile device, etc.","In some embodiments, the error correction module  can, in response to the received signal, send a response signal including an instruction configured to cause the mobile device to automatically perform one or more of the actions described above. In this manner, the error correction module  can receive indication of an error or other issue at a mobile device and automatically remedy the error without user intervention or assistance.","The line card  can be a hardware module (e.g., a wired and\/or wireless Ethernet card, a cellular network interface card) configured to transmit information (e.g., data packets, cells, etc.) from and receive information at the management server . As shown in , the line card  can include ports  and , and can be operatively and\/or physically coupled to the processor . In this manner, the processor  can, via the line card , exchange information with one or more other devices via a network (e.g., a mobile device, a cloud application server, an enterprise application server, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["410","420","430","450","460","470","440","450","460","480","460","465","440","410","420","430","410","411","413","415","420","421","423","425","430","431","433","435","450","452","454","460","462","464","470","472","474"]},"The mobile devices ,  and  can be similar to the mobile devices ,  and  described in connection with  above. In some embodiments, any of the mobile devices ,  and  can be a cellular telephone (e.g., a smart phone), a tablet computing device, or other mobile computing device. Each of the mobile apps -, - and - can be similar to the mobile apps -, - and - of . Each of the enterprise application server , the enterprise application  and the enterprise application  can be similar to the enterprise application server , the enterprise application  and the enterprise application , respectively, of . Each of the management server , the analytics module  and the reporting module  can be similar to the management server , the analytics module  and the reporting module , respectively, of . In some embodiments, the management server  can be included in and\/or in communication with an enterprise network (e.g., the enterprise network ), and can accordingly be managed by one or more members of the enterprise. Alternatively, the management server  can be managed by a centralized entity configured to administer the analytics module  and\/or the reporting module  on behalf of one or more external entities (and thus one or more mobile devices associated with those entities). Each of the cloud application server , the cloud application  and the cloud application  can be similar to the cloud application server , the cloud application  and the cloud application , respectively, of . In some embodiments, the network  can be similar to the network  described in connection with  above.","The management client  can be any valid combination of hardware and\/or software (e.g., a client hardware device executing software) configured to allow an administrator of the mobile application performance management system to exchange information with the management server . For example, the management client  can be a personal or server computing device, such as a desktop, laptop, notebook, netbook or tablet computer. Alternatively, the management client can be a mobile device, such as a cellular telephone, smart phone, personal digital assistant (PDA), etc. As shown in , the management client  can communicate with the management server via the network . Alternatively, in some embodiments, the management server  can be positioned and\/or configured to communicate directly with the management server , and\/or to communicate with the management server  via the enterprise network .","The enterprise network  can be any computer or information network owned and\/or operated by, or on behalf of, a given organization. Similar to the network , the enterprise network  can be capable of marshalling and transmitting data between two or more hardware devices. For example, the enterprise network  can be a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), or a virtual private network (VPN) operating over a public network, such as the Internet. In some embodiments, the enterprise network  can be comprised of one or more wired and\/or wirelessly connected hardware devices. As shown in , the enterprise network  can operatively couple and\/or connect the enterprise server  (including, e.g., one or more of the enterprise applications  and ) and the management server  (including, e.g., one or more of the analytics module  and the reporting module ). Although not shown in , in some embodiments the enterprise network  can exchange signals and\/or data between one or more of the mobile devices ,  and  and the enterprise server  and\/or the management server . In this manner, the management server  can provide connectivity between one or more client-side enterprise mobile apps (executing at one or more of the mobile devices ,  and ), one or more of the enterprise applications  and , and one or more of the analytics module  and the reporting module .","As shown in , the expert process  (hosted at the mobile device ) can send a signal  to the enterprise application  via the network . In some embodiments, the expert process  can send the signal  to the enterprise application  via the enterprise network . The signal  can include, for example, performance and\/or analytics information associated with one or more client-side enterprise mobile apps instantiated at the mobile device  (e.g., one or more of the mobile apps -). Alternatively, the signal  can include a typical data packet sent as part of the execution of an mobile enterprise app. For example, the signal  can include a portion of an enterprise e-mail message for processing by the enterprise application .","Upon receipt of the signal  from the mobile device  via the network , the enterprise application  can perform one or more operations thereon and\/or in response thereto. For example, the enterprise application  can send a response signal (not shown in ) to the mobile device . Alternatively, the enterprise application  can perform one or more analytics operations using, at least in part, mobile enterprise app performance information included in the signal . For example, the enterprise application  can use the mobile enterprise app performance information included in the signal  along with other mobile enterprise app performance information associated with other instances of the same mobile enterprise app to determine aggregate and\/or average performance metrics for that mobile enterprise app.","Having defined the above-described performance metrics, the enterprise application  can send a signal  to the management server  via the enterprise network . The signal  can optionally include the performance metrics defined by the enterprise application  and\/or other information associated therewith. In this manner, the enterprise application  can aggregate and\/or calculate performance and\/or other analytic information associated with an enterprise mobile app to be stored and\/or used by the analytics module  in performing additional analytic operations. Said differently, the enterprise application  (executing at the enterprise application server ) can, in conjunction with the expert process  (executing at the mobile device ), compile, define and\/or report enterprise mobile app performance, error, anomaly and\/or event information to the analytics module  (executing at the management server ).","As also shown in , the expert process  (instantiated at the mobile device ) can send a signal  to the analytics module  (executing at the management server ) via the network . The signal  can optionally include performance, error, anomaly, alert, event and\/or other information associated with one or more of the mobile apps - executing at the mobile device . In some embodiments, the signal  can be sent according to a predefined schedule, such as a periodic reporting schedule defined to provide the analytics module  with periodic performance information from the mobile device . Alternatively, the signal  can be sent in response to the occurrence of a given event at the mobile device , such as an error occurring within the mobile app . Alternatively, the signal  can be sent in response to a request from the analytics module . This request can optionally be sent according to a predetermined schedule or in response to a user-directed command received from the management client .","Upon receipt of the signal , the analytics module  can perform one or more additional analytics operations thereon. For example, the analytics module  can use performance information included in the signal  to define and\/or calculate one or more performance metrics for the mobile device . Alternatively or additionally, the analytics module  can use performance information associated with, for example, the mobile app , to calculate one or more average or aggregate performance metrics for multiple instances of the mobile app  (e.g., other instances of the mobile app  executing at one or more other mobile devices (not shown in )).","As further shown in , the expert process  (instantiated at the mobile device ) can send a signal  to the cloud application  (instantiated at the cloud application server ) via the network . The signal  can include, for example, mobile app performance information associated with one or more of the mobile apps - executing at the mobile device . In some embodiments, prior to sending the signal , the expert process  can aggregate and\/or perform one or more operations or calculations on mobile app performance information received from one or more of the mobile apps -. In such embodiments, the signal  can include, at least in part, results of the one or more operations.","Alternatively, the signal  can include typical application communication between one of the mobile apps - and the cloud application . For example, the mobile app  can be a cloud-based application mobile client, such as a mobile e-mail client app. In the example, the signal  can include a request to receive, from the cloud application , any new e-mail messages associated with an e-mail account of a user of the mobile device .","Upon receipt of the signal  from the mobile device  via the network , the cloud application  can perform one or more operations thereon and\/or in response thereto. For example, the cloud application  can send a response signal (not shown in ) to the mobile device  including, for example, the requested e-mail or other information. Alternatively, the cloud application  can perform one or more analytics operations using, at least in part, mobile app performance information included in the signal . For example, the cloud application  can use the mobile app performance information included in the signal  along with other mobile app performance information associated with other instances of the same mobile enterprise app to determine aggregate and\/or average performance metrics for that mobile app.","Having defined the above-described performance metrics, the cloud application  can send a signal  to the management server  via the network . The signal  can optionally include the performance metrics defined by the cloud application  and\/or other information associated therewith. In this manner, the cloud application  can aggregate and\/or calculate performance and\/or other analytic information associated with an enterprise mobile app to be stored and\/or used by the analytics module  in performing additional analytic operations. Said differently, the cloud application  (executing at the cloud application server ) can, in conjunction with the expert process  (executing at the mobile device ), compile, define and\/or report enterprise mobile app performance, error, anomaly and\/or event information to the analytics module  (executing at the management server ).","As also shown in , the management server  can send a signal  to the management client  via the network . In some embodiments, the signal  can include performance metric information associated with one or more of the mobile devices ,  and  and\/or the mobile apps -, - and -. The signal  can also optionally include additional performance, error, anomaly, event, alert and\/or other information associated with one or more mobile devices and\/or mobile apps as calculated by the analytics module . In some embodiments, the reporting module  can send the signal  in response to one or more request signals received from the management client  (not shown in ). The one or more request signals can optionally be sent in response to user input received at the management client . Alternatively, the one or more request signals can be sent by the management client  according to a predetermined schedule.","Upon receipt of the signal , the management client  can output, at a display, the mobile app performance information described above. For example, the management client  can output, at a monitor, projector, or other visual output device, one or more charts, graphs, tables, videos, or other graphics describing the mobile app performance information. Alternatively or additionally, the management client  can send the mobile app performance information included in the signal  to a memory, such as an internal or external database, for storage and\/or subsequent display.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":"500"},"The expert process can be any combination of hardware and\/or software (executing in hardware) configured to receive, process and\/or transmit mobile application information, such as the mobile app datum described above. In some embodiments, the expert process can be a running software module (i.e., a process) executing at the mobile device. The expert process can be loaded onto\/stored at the mobile device via a network download (via, e.g., an organization intranet or the Internet), pre-sale installation process, etc. The expert process can be configured to run resident in a memory of the mobile device, and to receive information periodically from one or more mobile apps also running resident in the memory of the mobile device. Alternatively, the expert process can receive the above-described information from one or more mobile apps on an event-driven basis, i.e., when a given event (e.g., an application error, alert, etc.) occurs within a currently-executing mobile app. In some embodiments, the expert process can alternatively be embedded within a mobile application. In such embodiments, the embedded expert process can send information associated with the mobile application in which it is embedded to another expert process operating at the mobile device and\/or directly to a server, such as a management server, cloud server and\/or enterprise server.","In some embodiments, one or more mobile apps executing at the mobile device can be designed to communicate with the expert process according to a predefined API. In such embodiments, the mobile apps can optionally be designed, configured and or coded to utilize a predefined Software Development Kit (SDK) designed to enable communication between a mobile app and an expert process. The one or more mobile apps can be any application capable of executing at a mobile device, such as a productivity, communication, entertainment, or other mobile application type. The mobile device can optionally be similar to any of the mobile devices ,  and  described in connection with  above. As such, the mobile device can be a cellular telephone, smartphone, tablet computing device, etc.","The mobile app datum can be included in a signal received at a mobile application management server. More specifically, the mobile app datum can be received from the expert process, via a network, at a server and\/or other computing device configured to receive performance data associated with one or more mobile apps instantiated and\/or executing at one or more mobile devices. In some embodiments, the mobile application management server can be associated with and\/or administered by a single organization. Alternatively, the mobile application management server can be administered by a hosting entity, and can receive mobile application performance data associated with one or more mobile devices associated with one or more entities.","An enterprise mobile app datum can be received from an enterprise application server of an enterprise application, . More specifically, the management server described in connection with step  above can receive, via a network, a mobile application performance datum of an enterprise application (e.g., an enterprise e-mail application, document management application, productivity application, etc.). The mobile application performance datum of the enterprise application can include, for example, one or more errors, alerts and\/or other events occurring within the enterprise application and\/or mobile enterprise app. In some embodiments, the enterprise mobile app datum can be received via an enterprise network to which the mobile device is connected and\/or an external network, such as the Internet. The enterprise mobile app datum can be received from an enterprise application server hosting one or more server-side hardware and\/or software modules. In this manner, the management server can receive individual and\/or aggregate performance metrics and\/or statistics defined, calculated and\/or produced by the enterprise application server for one or more instances of the enterprise application.","A cloud-based mobile app datum can be received from a cloud application server of a cloud-based application, . More specifically, the management server described in connection with step  above can receive, via a network, mobile application performance data of a cloud-based application (e.g., a cloud-based e-mail application, document management application, productivity application, etc.). The mobile application performance datum of the cloud-based application can include, for example, one or more errors, alerts and\/or other events occurring within the cloud-based application and\/or mobile cloud-based app. In some embodiments, the cloud-based mobile app datum can be received via a network to which the mobile device is connected, such as a local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), an organization intranet and\/or the Internet. The cloud-based mobile app datum can be received from a cloud application server hosting one or more server-side hardware and\/or software modules. In this manner, the management server can receive individual and\/or aggregate performance metrics and\/or statistics defined, calculated and\/or produced by the cloud application server for one or more instances of the cloud-based application.","The management server can aggregate the received mobile app data and perform analysis thereon, . More specifically, the management server can perform one or more operations configured to determine aggregate, average, periodic and\/or other mobile app performance information. For example, the management server can determine one or more performance metrics for all instances of all mobile apps running at a given mobile device or set of mobile devices, for all instances of a specific mobile app running at multiple mobile devices, for a single instance of a given enterprise mobile app executing at a single mobile device, for a single instance of a given cloud-based mobile app executing at a single mobile device, etc. In some embodiments, the management server can store the calculated performance metrics at a memory, such as a local hard drive, volatile or non-volatile memory, an external database, etc.","The management server can output one or more reports based on the above-described analysis operations, . For example, the management server can output, at a display, one or more charts, graphs, graphics, illustrations, tables, or other visual or audio representations that indicate the calculated performance metrics. In some embodiments, the management server can output the performance metric information via an application executing at the management server, such as a web browser, a productivity or presentation application, a multimedia application, a television application, etc. As discussed in connection with  above, the management server can optionally send at least a portion of the calculated performance metrics to a client device, via a network, such that the calculated performance metric information is output at the client device (e.g., the management client  described in connection with  above).","The management server can send one or more alerts based on the received data and\/or analysis operations, . More specifically, upon receipt of a mobile app datum (e.g., an error or alert) and\/or upon determination of a specified trend (e.g., a performance metric below a predetermined threshold), the management server can define and send one or more alerts to one or more devices. For example, the management server can send, via a local or private network (e.g., the Internet, an organization intranet, an organization enterprise network), one or more signals indicating the error, alert, or other event. In this manner, the management server can send notification to one or more concerned individuals, thereby allowing the individuals to take any appropriate responsive action.","Although not shown in , in some embodiments the management server can next send at least a portion of the received mobile app data, one or more of the generated reports and\/or one or more of the above-described alerts to a management client. The management client can be, for example, a client device and\/or software module similar to the management client  described in connection with  above. In this manner, the management server can provide information enabling a user of the management server to take responsive action (e.g., corrective action) based at least in part on the received information.","In some embodiments, the management server can take one or more predefined corrective actions based at least in part on the above-described received data and\/or analysis operations. For example, as described in connection with  above, the management server can send, to the mobile device, one or more signals, alerts and\/or messages configured to change one or more settings or functions of the mobile device and\/or instruct a user of the mobile device to do so.","Some embodiments described herein relate to a computer storage product with a computer-readable medium (also can be referred to as a processor-readable medium) having instructions or computer code thereon for performing various computer-implemented operations. The media and computer code (also can be referred to as code) may be those designed and constructed for the specific purpose or purposes. Examples of computer-readable media include, but are not limited to: magnetic storage media such as hard disks, floppy disks, and magnetic tape; optical storage media such as Compact Disc\/Digital Video Discs (CD\/DVDs), Compact Disc-Read Only Memories (CD-ROMs), and holographic devices; magneto-optical storage media such as optical disks; carrier wave signal processing modules; and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code, such as Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs), and Read-Only Memory (ROM) and Random-Access Memory (RAM) devices.","Examples of computer code include, but are not limited to, micro-code or micro-instructions, machine instructions, such as produced by a compiler, code used to produce a web service, and files that contain higher-level instructions that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example, embodiments may be implemented using Java, C++, or other programming languages (e.g., object-oriented programming languages) and development tools. Additional examples of computer code include, but are not limited to, control signals, encrypted code, and compressed code.","While various embodiments have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, not limitation, and various changes in form and details may be made. Any portion of the apparatus and\/or methods described herein may be combined in any combination, except mutually exclusive combinations. The embodiments described herein can include various combinations and\/or sub-combinations of the functions, components and\/or features of the different embodiments described. In some embodiments, a processor-readable medium can comprise code representing instructions that when executed cause a processor to receive, at a mobile device, a first performance datum defined by an application installed on the mobile device. The code can further cause the processor to define a performance report, the performance report being associated with the application and being based at least in part on a correlation between the first performance datum and at least one of: at least one status datum associated with one or more components of the mobile device; at least one environment variable value defined by an operating system installed on the mobile device; status information associated with a communication network to which the mobile device is currently connected; and a second performance datum defined by the application. The code can further cause the processor to send the performance report.","A processor-readable medium can comprise code representing instructions that when executed cause a processor to receive a first performance report from a mobile device, the first performance report including information associated with at least one performance characteristic of a mobile application installed on the mobile device. The code can further cause the processor to receive a second performance report from a server device, the second performance report including information associated with at least one performance characteristic of a cloud-based device application. The code can further cause the processor to output a performance anomaly report, the performance anomaly report being based at least in part on at least one of: a portion of the first performance report; and a portion of the second performance report."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
