---
title: Method for conference call prompting from a locked device
abstract: A method for joining a conference call from a communication device, the communication device having a locked state and an unlocked state. The method includes displaying an interface on the communication device while the communication device is in the locked state, the interface including an option to join a scheduled conference call, receiving an input for selection of the option while the communication device is in the locked state, unlocking the communication device to the unlocked state, and sending a communication to a second communication device for establishing a conference call session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583097&OS=08583097&RS=08583097
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08583097
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20110323
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Example embodiments relate to conference call systems and methods, and in particular to a method and communication device for joining a conference call.","During a conference call, voice or media connections are typically made between two or more communication devices such as telephones or mobile phones.","In some conventional devices, the user of a mobile device is himself responsible for keeping track of when to join a conference call. At the time of the conference call, the user typically first unlocks his mobile device, followed by dialing into the conference call. Further, additional functions and commands may also need to be performed onto the mobile device after unlocking in order to join the conference call.","Another difficulty is that unauthorized participants may attempt to join a conference call. The participants of a conference call are sometimes loosely defined wherein original invitees can forward invitations to others who can then participate. With only rudimentary security procedures such as a conference call dial-in number and access code almost anyone from any location can be a conference call participant, which could compromise security.","Other difficulties with existing teleconferencing systems will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description below.","Similar reference numerals may have been used in different figures to denote similar components.","Some example embodiments generally relate to conference call prompting from a locked device.","In some example embodiments, at or before the time of a conference call, a locked device may display a prompt that shows that a conference call is starting. This prompt may allow the user to join or snooze the scheduled conference call. If the user elects to join the conference call, the device may further require password entry to unlock the device. Once unlocked, the device may then contact a conference call server, for joining of the conference call.","In some further example embodiments, the client device may join a conference in a secure fashion so that only authenticated devices can join. This may provide a mechanism for a secure join. A unique identifier that is tied to a device, such as a device PIN (personal identification number) or mobile identifier may be used to authenticate the user.","In one aspect, there is provided a method for joining a conference call from a communication device, the communication device having a locked state and an unlocked state. The method includes displaying an interface on the communication device while the communication device is in the locked state, the interface including an option to join a scheduled conference call, receiving an input for selection of the option while the communication device is in the locked state, unlocking the communication device to the unlocked state, and sending a communication to a second communication device for establishing a conference call session.","In another aspect, there is provided a communication device including a controller configured for operating the communication device in a locked state or an unlocked state, a communications subsystem, a display for displaying an interface on the communication device while the communication device is in the locked state, the interface including an option to join a scheduled conference call, and an input device for receiving an input for selection of the option while the communication device is in the locked state. The controller is further configured for unlocking the communication device to the unlocked state, and sending a communication to a second communication device for establishing a conference call session.","In another aspect, there is provided a non-transitory computer readable medium having recorded thereon statements and instructions for execution by a communication device for joining a conference call, said statements and instructions comprising code means for performing the method.","Example embodiments relate to the control and management of conference call communications. Although reference may be made to \u201ccalls\u201d and \u201ctalk\u201d in the description of example embodiments below, it will be appreciated that some of the described systems and methods may be applicable to session-based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. Reference to calls may for example include shared data (e.g. presentation content) as well as media sessions which may for example include video and\/or audio. The various communications may include both synchronous and asynchronous communications to implement such \u201ccalls\u201d.","Reference is now made to , which shows, in block diagram form, an example system, generally designated , for the control and management of communications. The system  includes an enterprise or business system , which in many embodiments includes a local area network (LAN). In the description below, the enterprise or business system  may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network  may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.","The enterprise network  may be connected, often through a firewall , to a wide area network (WAN) , such as the Internet. The enterprise network  may also be connected to a public switched telephone network (PSTN)  via direct inward dialing (DID) trunks or primary rate interface (PRI) trunks.","The enterprise network  may also communicate with a public land mobile network (PLMN) , which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network (WWAN) or, in some cases, a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN  may be made via a relay , as understood in the art.","The enterprise network  may also provide a wireless local area network (WLAN) featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs  may exist outside the enterprise network . For example, WLAN may be connected to WAN .","The system  may include a number of enterprise-associated mobile devices  (only one shown). The mobile devices  may include devices equipped with communications modules for cellular communication through the PLMN , mobile devices equipped for Wi-Fi communications over one of the WLANs , or dual-mode devices capable of both cellular and data communications. WLANs  may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.","It will be understood that the mobile devices  include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN  and\/or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments, the PLMN  and mobile devices  may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols, including GSM, GPRS, CDMA, EDGE, UMTS, EvDO, HSPA, 3GPP, or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device  may roam within the PLMN  and across PLMNs, in known manner, as the user moves. In some instances, the dual-mode mobile devices  and\/or the enterprise network  are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN  and a WLAN , and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions (such as voice calls) from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual-mode device  to the WLAN  interface of the dual-mode device , and vice versa.","The mobile devices  may be various types of communication devices. Such mobile devices  may include \u201cClass A\u201d devices, which are able to function continuously as dual-mode devices, capable of both media and data communications. Mobile devices  may also include \u201cnon-Class A\u201d devices, which may function as dual-mode devices for initialization or prior to connection with the enterprise communications platform , but may lose data functionality once a media session (e.g., voice call) is established. The enterprise network  may also include additional client devices which are voice-only or media-only devices, which may be digital or analog for communication with the PSTN or PLMN, and which may not have data capabilities (herein referred to as \u201cvoice-only\u201d or \u201cmedia-only\u201d devices). In other embodiments, the mobile devices  may include any suitable client device configured with the communications functionality described herein, and may for example include computer devices, relays, proxies, gateways and any appropriate User Agents (as defined in SIP).","The enterprise network  typically includes a number of networked servers, computers, and other devices. For example, the enterprise network  may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers  (one shown). The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network  may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets  (one shown).","The enterprise network  may include one or more mail servers, such as mail server , for coordinating the transmission, storage, and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server\u2122 and the IBM Lotus Domino\u2122 server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information, such as an e-mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network  in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application, such as an e-mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user's computer  connected to the enterprise network  within the enterprise. In some embodiments, the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer, for example at another location via the WAN  using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application, the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others, within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server  to send a composed message to the addressee, often via the WAN .","The relay  serves to route messages received over the PLMN  from the mobile device  to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay  also pushes messages from the enterprise network  to the mobile device  via the PLMN .","The enterprise network  also includes an enterprise server . Generally, the enterprise server  is configured to collectively serve the needs of the enterprise network , for example to provide and\/or synchronize messaging, contacts and calendaring information between servers, desktop workstations , and mobile devices . Together with the relay , the enterprise server  functions to redirect or relay incoming e-mail messages addressed to a user's e-mail address within the enterprise network  to the user's mobile device  and to relay incoming e-mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device  out to the intended recipients within the WAN  or elsewhere. The enterprise server  and relay  together facilitate \u201cpush\u201d e-mail service for the mobile device  enabling the user to send and receive e-mail messages using the mobile device  as though the user were connected to an e-mail client within the enterprise network  using the user's enterprise-related e-mail address, for example on computer .","As is typical in many enterprises, the enterprise network  includes a Private Branch eXchange (although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP-PBX, for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both)  having a connection with the PSTN  for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX  is connected to the PSTN  via DID trunks or PRI trunks, for example. The PBX  may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit-switched connections through the PSTN  and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments, the PBX  may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX  is also connected to the enterprise network  and, through it, to telephone terminal devices, such as digital telephone sets , softphones operating on computers , etc. Within the enterprise, each individual may have an associated extension number, sometimes referred to as a PNP (private numbering plan), or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX  to the PSTN  or incoming from the PSTN  to the PBX  are typically circuit-switched calls. Within the enterprise, e.g. between the PBX  and terminal devices, voice calls are often packet-switched calls, for example Voice-over-IP (VoIP) calls.","The enterprise network  may further include a Service Management Platform (SMP)  for performing some aspects of messaging or session control, like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP  may, in some cases, also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP  and PBX  may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform, generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform  and, in particular, the SMP , is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX  and\/or DID\/PRI trunks. Although the SMP  may be implemented on a stand-alone server, it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent\/server as a logical software component. As will be described below, the SMP  may be implemented as a multi-layer platform.","The enterprise communications platform  implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between, for example, a circuit-switched call and a VoIP call, or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments, in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform  provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant, interactive voice response (IVR), call forwarding, voice mail, etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users, such as blocking international calls or 1-900 calls. In many embodiments, Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) may be used to set-up, manage, and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform , for example, Web Services, Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) protocol, Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), and various custom Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), as will be described in greater detail below.","One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform  is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example, the enterprise communications platform  may allow the mobile device  to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone, such as the digital telephone set  or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing, enterprise voice mail, conferencing, call transfer, call park, etc.","Reference is now made to , which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system .  illustrates an embodiment intended for use in a circuit-switched TDM context. The PBX  is coupled to the SMP  via PRI connection  or other suitable digital trunk. In some embodiments, the PRI connection  may include a first PRI connection, a second PRI connection, and a channel service unit (CSU), wherein the CSU is a mechanism for connecting computing devices to digital mediums in a manner that allows for the retiming and regeneration of incoming signals. It will be appreciated that there may be additional or alternative connections between the PBX  and the SMP .","In this embodiment, the SMP  assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as \u201cFirst Party Call Control\u201d. Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX  are handled by the SMP  in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise, for example, are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter, a call leg is established from the SMP  to the called party within the enterprise, and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly, the SMP  includes a digital trunk interface  and a digital signal processing (DSP) conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge  performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features, such as conferencing, call transfer, etc. The digital trunk interface  may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards, e.g. Intel Dialogic cards, interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface  may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as, for example, a Host Media Processing (HMP) processor.","The SMP  may include various scripts  for managing call processing. The scripts  are implemented as software modules, routines, functions, etc., stored in non-volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts  may implement call flow logic, business logic, user preferences, call service processes, and various feature applications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["16","18","18","18"]},"The call control server  is coupled to the PBX , for example through the LAN, enabling packet-based communications and, more specifically, IP-based communications. In one embodiment, communications between the PBX  and the call control server  are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words, the call control server  uses SIP-based communications to manage the set up, tear down, and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment, the call control server  may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA-269 or ECMA-323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications (CSTA).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["14","18","74","74","18","72","76","72","76","72","74"]},"The SIP server  interacts with the media server  using SIP-based media handling commands. For example, the SIP server  and media server  may communicate using Media Server Markup Language (MSML) as defined in IETF document Saleem A., \u201cMedia Server Markup Language\u201d, Internet Draft, draft-saleem-msml-07, Aug. 7, 2008. The media server  may be configured to perform Host Media Processing (HMP).","Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system  will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art. For example, in example embodiments the service management platform  may be separate from the PBX ; or the service management platform  may include a cloud-based system.","Reference is now made to , which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system  with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment, the SMP  is a multi-layer platform that includes a protocol layer , a services layer  and an application layer . The protocol layer  includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer  includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally, the application layer  includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.","Specifically, the protocol layer  preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example, the protocol layer  can include, among other things, a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP , a Web Services protocol , an Application Programming Interface or API , a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI , and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols - are plug-ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network , which will be further described below.","Although SIP  may be utilized, it is appreciated that the system  can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art, SIP is the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) standard for multimedia session management, and more specifically is an application-layer control protocol for establishing, maintaining, modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art, the SIP protocol  includes two interfaces for signaling: SIP-Trunk (hereinafter referred to as \u201cSIP-T\u201d) and SIP-Line (hereinafter referred to as \u201cSIP-L\u201d). Specifically, the SIP-T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non-specific entity or not registered (i.e., when communicating between two network entities). In contrast, the SIP-L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered (i.e., when dialing to a specific extension). SIP is defined in J. Rosenberg et al., \u201cRFC 3261\u2014Session Initiation Protocol\u201d (June 2002), the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.","The SMP  also includes a plurality of enablers, among other things, a VoIP enabler , a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler , a conference services enabler , a presence enabler  and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers - are used by corresponding services in the services layer  that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer  is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example, a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler, and an emergency response application may use the phone call service, an Instant Messenger service, a video call service, and email service and\/or a conference service.","The application layer  may include a conference services application  that, together with the conference services enabler , enables multiple communication devices (including desk telephones and personal computers) to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in , the conference server  is provided in the enterprise network  and is in communication with the conference services enabler  preferably through the SIP protocol , although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate, such as the Web Services protocol  or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below, the conference call server  is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices (i.e., mobile devices , telephones , and computers ).","Example conference call systems and methods in accordance with example embodiments will now be described, referring now to , which shows the system  when used or configured as a conference call system. As shown, the enterprise communications platform  includes the conference server  for providing conference call services for a number of client devices such as mobile devices , illustrated as one designated host device and one or more participant devices , , . The mobile devices  may collectively form a conference call group. The host device is generally the mobile device  or associated user who schedules and hosts a conference call session, and may for example be permitted to perform such hosting functions as roll call, mute all, broadcast only, conference lock, etc.","In some example embodiments, during a conference call session, the enterprise communications platform  can receives Global Positioning System (GPS) information from at least some of the participant devices , and can send the received GPS information to the devices , to provide location based positioning services between the devices .","The enterprise communications platform  and the associated conference server  may be used for generally executing conference call functions. As described above, in example embodiments, the enterprise communications platform  may include or be coupled to the media server  (), wherein the enterprise communications platform  controls the media handling and media sessions of the media server .","Referring still to , in order to implement some of the conference call functions described herein, the enterprise communications platform  may communicate with the mobile devices  by way of media sessions and\/or control sessions. Specifically, as shown in , the mobile devices  communicates via media sessions  (shown as solid lines) and control sessions  (shown as dashed lines to distinguish from the media sessions ). For example, the designated host device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . In some embodiments, as shown, the participant device may merely communicate via media session over the PLMN  () or PSTN  () only (without an associated control session).","In some example embodiments, the media sessions may be facilitated by the enterprise communications platform  by way of Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) media sessions, and may include voice calls, video calls, circuit-switched calls or VoIP calls. In order to generate or establish a conference call session, the enterprise communications platform  connects or links at least some of the call legs of each media session . The particular methods and processes for connecting of media sessions  into a conference call session would be understood by those skilled in the art, which may for example be implemented by media shuffling or SDP (Session Description Protocol) media shuffling, etc.","In some example embodiments, a data connection (e.g. the same data connection as used by the control sessions ) can be further used to provide additional data sharing between mobile devices . For example, during a conference call, the host mobile device may provide or transfer a data file to the remaining mobile devices . Data sharing may also include Web Services or sharing of presentation content.","Reference is now made to  which illustrates in detail a mobile device  in which example embodiments can be applied. The mobile device  is a two-way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities, and the capability to communicate with other computer systems, for example, via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device , in various embodiments the mobile device  may be a handheld device, a multiple-mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication, a smartphone, a mobile telephone or a PDA (personal digital assistant) enabled for wireless communication.","The mobile device  includes a rigid case (not shown) housing the components of the mobile device . The internal components of the mobile device  may, for example, be constructed on a printed circuit board (PCB). The description of the mobile device  herein mentions a number of specific components and subsystems. Although these components and subsystems may be realized as discrete elements, the functions of the components and subsystems may also be realized by integrating, combining, or packaging one or more elements in any suitable fashion. The mobile device  includes a controller comprising at least one processor  (such as a microprocessor) which controls the overall operation of the mobile device . The processor  interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem  for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network (e.g. WAN  and\/or PLMN ) to perform communication functions. The processor  interacts with additional device subsystems including a display  such as a liquid crystal display (LCD) screen or any other appropriate display, input devices  such as a keyboard and control buttons, persistent memory , random access memory (RAM) , read only memory (ROM) , auxiliary input\/output (I\/O) subsystems , data port  such as a conventional serial data port or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) data port, speaker , microphone , short-range communication subsystem  (which may employ any appropriate a wireless (e.g., RF), optical, or other short range communications technology), and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in  perform communication-related functions, whereas other subsystems may provide \u201cresident\u201d or on-device functions.","Display  may be realized as a touch-screen display in some embodiments. The touch-screen display may be constructed using a touch-sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the visible element of display . The touch-sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch-sensitive input device and the processor  interacts with the touch-sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.","The wireless communication subsystem  includes one or more communication systems for communicating with wireless WAN base stations  and wireless LAN access points  within the wireless network. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem  depends on the wireless network in which mobile device  is intended to operate. The mobile device  may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.","The processor  operates under stored program control and executes software modules  stored in memory such as persistent memory  or ROM . The processor  can execute code means or instructions. ROM  may contain data, program instructions or both. Persistent memory  may contain data, program instructions or both, in some embodiments is rewritable under control of processor , and may be realized using any appropriate persistent memory technology, including EEPROM, EAROM, FLASH, and the like. As illustrated in , the software modules  comprise operating system software  and software applications .","Software modules  or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM  is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory, this is merely one example, and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.","The software applications  may further include a range of applications, including, for example, an e-mail messaging application, address book, calendar application, notepad application, Internet browser application, voice communication (i.e., telephony) application, mapping application, or a media player application, or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications  may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements (e.g., text fields, input fields, icons, etc.) in the user interface (i.e., the display ) according to the application.","The modules  may further include a security module or application which is configured for operating the device  in a locked state or an unlocked state. In the locked state, typically numerous functions of the device  are restricted, for example to prevent other users from accessing the device  or to prevent accidental typing or dialing out from the keyboard. For example, access to at least some applications such as e-mail, web browsing, or media player may be restricted from the device . The device  would typically need to be unlocked for subsequent operation of the device , for example by entering a password or other user identifier. In some example embodiments, the device  may be unlocked by typing in a non-random specified keyboard sequence such as ASTERISK (*) SEND, or the like.","The modules  may further include a Global Positioning System (GPS) module or application which is configured for detection of a geographical position of the device , for example by correlating existing satellites. The GPS module may also receive from the enterprise communications platform  the geographical positions of the other devices .","In some embodiments, the auxiliary input\/output (I\/O) subsystems  may comprise an external communication link or interface, for example, an Ethernet connection. The auxiliary I\/O subsystems  may further comprise one or more input devices, including a pointing or navigational tool such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel, or one or more output devices, including a mechanical transducer such as a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile device  (e.g., receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call), or for other purposes such as haptic feedback (touch feedback).","In some embodiments, the mobile device  also includes one or more removable memory modules  (typically comprising FLASH memory) and one or more memory module interfaces . Among possible functions of the removable memory module  is to store information used to identify or authenticate a user or the user's account to wireless network (e.g. WAN  and\/or PLMN ). For example, in conjunction with certain types of wireless networks, including GSM and successor networks, the removable memory module  is referred to as a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM. The memory module  is inserted in or connected to the memory module interface  of the mobile device  in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network.","The mobile device  stores data  in a persistent memory . In various embodiments, the data  includes service data comprising information required by the mobile device  to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network (e.g. WAN  and\/or PLMN ). The data  can also include, for example, scheduling and connection information for connecting to a scheduled conference call.","The mobile device  also includes a battery  which furnishes energy for operating the mobile device . The battery may be coupled to the electrical circuitry of mobile device  through a battery interface , which may manage such functions as charging the battery from an external power source (not shown) and the distribution of energy to various loads within or connected to the mobile device . Short-range communication subsystem  is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile device  and different systems or devices, which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example, the short-range communication subsystem  may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components, or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a BLUETOOTH communication module to provide for communication with similarly-enabled systems and devices.","A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations, including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device  during or after manufacture. Additional applications and\/or upgrades to the operating system software  or software applications  may also be loaded onto the mobile device  through the wireless network (e.g. WAN  and\/or PLMN ), the auxiliary I\/O subsystem , the data port , the short-range communication subsystem , or other suitable subsystem such as . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed, for example, written into the program memory (e.g., the persistent memory ), or written into and executed from the RAM  for execution by the processor  at runtime.","The mobile device  may provide two principal modes of communication: a data communication mode and an optional voice communication mode. In the data communication mode, a received data signal such as a text message, an e-mail message, Web page download, or an image file will be processed by the wireless communication subsystem  and input to the processor  for further processing. For example, a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an e-mail message may be processed by an e-mail message messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile device  may also compose data items, such as e-mail messages, for example, using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem  over the wireless network (e.g. WAN  and\/or PLMN ). In the voice communication mode, the mobile device  provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone.","Generally, in some example embodiments, at the time of a conference call, or a specified time beforehand, the locked device  may display a prompt that shows that a conference call is starting. This prompt may allow the user to join or snooze the scheduled conference call. If the user elects to join the conference call, the device  may further require password entry to unlock the device . Once unlocked, the device  may then contact the enterprise communications platform , for joining of the conference call.","Reference is now made to , which shows a user interface  displayed on the display  for scheduling a conference call, in accordance with an example embodiment. In the example embodiment shown, the user interface  is for example implemented by a conference call application (as a stand-alone or in combination with other applications) resident on the mobile device  for specifically communicating with the enterprise communications platform . The user interface  may form part of a conference call session scheduling process.","Still referring to , the user interface  relates to scheduling of a conference call session having a subject and which is to occur at a scheduled time and date. For example, the time and date of the schedule conference call session may be stored within the conference call application or a calendar application. For example, the scheduled conference call has a subject field of \u201cWeekly status meeting XYZ Corp Inc.\u201d and has a scheduled date field of \u201cJan. 1, 2011 at 13:00\u201d. The user interface  may be manually triggered by launching and subsequently operating the conference call application.","As shown in , the user interface  also includes an options menu  to perform functions such as editing the existing scheduled conference call, scheduling new conference calls, and inviting new participants. Conference call scheduling information is sent from the device  to the enterprise communications platform , which stores the information in a memory and sends an invitation message to the specified participants with the conference call scheduling information.","At the time of the scheduled conference call, or a specified time beforehand, the enterprise communications platform  may contact each of the devices  to join the media sessions together. In example embodiments, the devices  may also dial or link into the enterprise communications platform  using dialing or address link information received during scheduling.","As shown in , the user interface  includes a title bar , a status icon , an options menu , and participant icons (each or individually ) which represent the status of each participant for the conference call. The participant icons  can, for example, be a photo or avatar of the individual. A cursor  is also shown for indicating which item(s) on the user interface  are to be selected (e.g., controllable by a user input device such as a touchscreen, touch scrollball or mouse). The status icon  displays the present status of the conference call, for example \u201cScheduled CC\u201d (Conference Call) as shown.","Referring now to the participant icons , in the example shown, the user interface  is displayed on the host device , indicated as \u201cYou\u2014Host\u201d as shown in icon . Another participant icon can be designated as the leader device , typically for the participant individual who will be doing the majority of the speaking, for example \u201cJohn\u2014Leader\u201d as shown. The remaining participant icons , represent additional participant devices  (\u201cSally\u201d and \u201cDavid\u201d, respectively, as shown). Contact information such as e-mail address or phone number for the participants can be pre-stored in association with the participant names (or can be manually entered, as appropriate). The status of each participant icon  can also be shown, for example, as Accepted, Tentative, or Declined.","As shown in , in some example embodiments the host device can also select a menu  to designate the scheduled conference call as a \u201cclosed\u201d conference call. In a \u201cclosed\u201d call, only the specified or eligible participant devices  designated by the host device may join the call. In some example embodiments, in a \u201cclosed\u201d call further authentication of those participant devices  may be performed when attempting to access the scheduled conference call. As shown, the host device also has the option to use the menu  to set the scheduled conference call as an \u201copen\u201d conference call, wherein any participant device  (designated as eligible or not) may join.","Generally, in some example embodiments, as part of the conference call session scheduling process, after the conference call scheduling information is configured by the host device , the enterprise communications platform  subsequently communicates with each device  for inviting to the scheduled conference call and for provisioning at least some of the conference call scheduling information. Each device  has an option to Accept, Decline, or Tentative. If the device  selects Accept, this means that the device  will participate in the scheduled conference call. If the device  selects Decline, for example, the host device is notified by the enterprise communications platform  that the scheduled conference call has been declined by the particular device . The notification may be made by phone call, data message, email, etc. If the host device Declines, then the entire scheduled conference call may be cancelled and the other devices  notified accordingly. If the device  selects Tentative, then the enterprise communications platform  notifies the host device accordingly.","Thus, reference is now made to , which shows a user interface  for displaying a received invitation message  on a non-host participant device . The device  first receives the invitation message  from the enterprise communications platform  with respect to a scheduled conference call. As shown, the message  as displayed can include a number of fields  which relate to conference call scheduling information. The fields  include Subject, Start time, End time, Recurrence, Host\/Organizer, Web Information, and Audio Conference Information.","The invitation message  may be received as an e-mail message designating the participant's e-mail address, but can also be in other forms such as short message service (SMS), SIP message, instant messaging, or calendar invite. Note that, in other example embodiments, the message  may alternatively be received directly or indirectly from the host device , rather than from the enterprise communications platform .","As shown on the interface , a number of response options  may be selected in order to respond to the invitation message . As shown, the response options  include Accept, Tentative, or Decline, as described above. Upon selection, the response is sent to the enterprise communications platform . In further example embodiments, selection of the Accept option may result in the details of the invitation message  being stored in a calendar application of the device . As shown, the response options  can also include an option to Forward  to a new participant client device. In some example embodiments, the Forward  function can be restricted depending on whether the new participant client device is permitted to join the conference call (for a closed call).","As shown in , the invitation message  also includes Web Information which includes an option to select an address link  to activate a \u201cJoin Now\u201d or \u201cMeet Now\u201d function. At the scheduled date and time of the conference call, the device  may receive a user input selecting the address link  to request joining the conference call session. If the conference call is a closed call, the enterprise communications platform  may then authenticate the device , for example by authenticating the particular persistent device identifier of the device . Upon authentication, a conference call session can be established between the device  and the enterprise communications platform , which can include a media session  ().","As can be appreciated, in some example embodiments the address link  identifies the enterprise communications platform  as well as the scheduled conference call session, and can include a Uniform Resource Locator (URL), a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), or other suitable address.","Reference is now made to , which shows an example user interface  displayed on the display  of a mobile communication device  in accordance with an example embodiment. Generally, in some example embodiments, the interface  may display a notification  while the device  is in a locked state that shows that a conference call is starting now, along with corresponding conference call scheduling information. This interface  may allow the user to provide instructions to the device  while locked to join the scheduled conference call.","Referring to , the memory  may contain the conference call scheduling information in relation to the scheduled conference call. Referring again to , the details in the notification  can be retrieved from the memory  for display within the interface .","Referring again to , in example embodiments, the interface  may be displayed at the scheduled time of the conference call, wherein the scheduled time is known from the conference call scheduling information stored in the memory  (). In other example embodiments, the interface  may be displayed at a specified time prior to the schedule time of the conference call, for example five minutes prior. The current time is indicated by time icon .","As indicated by locked icon , the device  may be in a locked state. If this is the case, the device  is configured to still display the interface  so as to \u201cbreak through\u201d the locked state, so as to alert the user while in the locked state. The displaying of the interface  may be accompanied by outputting an additional alert through the device , for example an audible ringtone, a vibration, or a flashing LED (light emitting diode), etc.","As shown in , the interface  includes a number of user-selectable options  in relation to the scheduled conference call. The options  include open , dismiss , snooze , and join now . Selection of dismiss  dismisses the notification for the scheduled conference call. In other words, the interface  is no longer displayed. Selection of snooze  causes the interface  to no longer be displayed, but will be re-displayed after a specified period of time, for example five minutes. In either case, if the device  is in a locked state, the device  remains in the locked state.","Selection of open  will open the conference call scheduling information with respect to the subject scheduled conference call. Referring to , for example, the interface  may be displayed in response. Alternatively, a corresponding calendar event record (not shown) may be displayed. The user may then join the scheduled conference call by selecting the address link  or by following the Audio Conference Information. In some example embodiments, should a device password be required, an additional device password may be required to be entered to unlock the device  along with selection of the open  option.","Referring again to , selection of the join now  option instructs the device  to join the conference call by contacting the enterprise communications platform , with the connection information obtained from the conference call scheduling information stored in the memory . In some example embodiments, should a device password be required, an additional device password may be required to be entered to unlock the device  along with selection of the join now  option.","Thus, reference is now made to , wherein selection of the join now  option results in a second interface  being displayed. The second interface  includes a password interface . As shown, the password interface  includes a field  for entering of the device password. After input of the device password, the user can select ENTER or other suitable selection or clicking mechanism. In response, the device  authenticates the device password and unlocks the device  if successful. The device  then automatically implements the join now function by automatically sending a communication to the enterprise communications platform , for establishing the conference call session. The enterprise communications platform  then answers the communication and authenticates the device , and a conference call session is thereafter established with the device . The authentication may be made by using a persistent device identifier of the device . Further, if the conference call is a closed call, the device  may be authenticated by the enterprise communications platform  by checking a whitelist of permissible devices. In other example embodiments, the device  contacts another participant device such as the host device, and directly or indirectly establishes a conference call session with that device.","Referring briefly to , when sending the communication to the enterprise communications platform , the device  can automatically connect to the link contained in the address link  or by following the Audio Conference Information (e.g., by dialing the telephone number and providing the conference password). Further, the device  may be authenticated by checking the conference password (if dialing in).","It can be appreciated that in example embodiments which authenticate using the device identifier, the identifier is unique for a mobile device and unique to the associated user. A deskphone, for example, is typically not personal to a user as anyone could sit at a desk and attempt to join a conference call. However, it is uncommon for a user to have a mobile device and join a conference call from a different mobile device of a different user; or for a different user attempt to join a conference call using an authorized mobile device.","In some example embodiments, a specified key sequence such as ASTERISK (*) SEND may be used to unlock the device to prevent accidental launching of the join now feature and dialing into the conference call.","Reference is now made to , which shows another user interface  displayed on a locked mobile communication device  in accordance with another example embodiment. The interface  may display a notification  while the device  is in a locked state that shows that a conference call is starting, along with corresponding conference call scheduling information. The interface  may allow the user to provide instructions to the device  while locked to join the scheduled conference call.","As shown in , the interface  includes a number of user-selectable options  in relation to the scheduled conference call. The options  include open , dismiss , snooze , and join now . The interface  also includes a password interface , which includes a field  for entering of a device password. After input of the device password, the device  in response authenticates the device password and unlocks the device . If the join now  option is selected, the device  then automatically sends a communication to the enterprise communications platform , for establishing the conference call session. If the open  option is selected, the device  displays an interface for displaying the conference call scheduling information.","Reference is now made to , which shows another user interface  displayed on a locked mobile communication device  in accordance with another example embodiment. In the example embodiment shown, an additional specified key sequence is required to prevent accidental joining. The interface  may display a notification  while the device  is in a locked state that shows that a conference call is starting, along with corresponding conference call scheduling information. The interface  may allow the user to provide instructions to the device  while locked to join the scheduled conference call.","As shown in , the interface  includes a number of user-selectable options  in relation to the scheduled conference call. The options  include open , dismiss , snooze , and join now . The interface  also includes a popup prompt interface  which is displayed in response to selection of one of the options, such as join now . As shown, the popup prompt interface  includes a prompt to for an additional specified key sequence to be input, which may be required to prevent accidentally joining. For example and without limitation, the prompt interface  may display the prompt to \u201cPlease enter \u2018ASTERISK (*) SEND\u2019 to join the conference call\u201d. An input field (not shown) may also be provided to, for example, receive a specified alphanumeric input such as a basic keyword. After input of the specified key sequence, the device  in response unlocks the device . If the join now  option is selected, the device  then automatically sends a communication to the enterprise communications platform , for establishing the conference call session. If the open  option is selected, the device  displays an interface for displaying the conference call scheduling information.","Reference is now made to , which shows an example flow diagram  of a method for joining a conference call in accordance with an example embodiment. Reference is also made to the example interface  shown in  and the second interface  shown in . The method shown in  is for joining a conference call from a communication device , the communication device  configured for being in a locked state or an unlocked state. The memory  of the device  may include conference call scheduling information with respect to a scheduled conference call, for example an address link or audio information for communicating with the enterprise communications platform . At step , the method displays an interface  on the communication device  while the communication device  is in the locked state. The interface  includes an option to join a scheduled conference call, shown as join now  (). At step , by way of a user input device, the device  receives an input for selection of the join now  option while the communication device  is in the locked state. At step , it is determined whether a device password is required to unlock the device . If so (if \u201cyes\u201d), the flow diagram  proceeds to step  for receiving the device password. This includes displaying a password interface . The flow diagram  then proceeds to step  to unlock the device  to the unlocked state. In some example embodiments, if a password is not required (if \u201cno\u201d), at step  an interface (e.g. interface  ) may be displayed which prompts for an additional specified key sequence to be input, which may be required to prevent accidentally joining. For example and without limitation, the interface may display the prompt to \u201cPlease enter \u2018ASTERISK (*) SEND\u2019 to join the conference call\u201d. At step , the specified key sequence is received via user input. The flow diagram  then proceeds to step  to unlock the device .","At step , in response to the selection of the join now  option, the device  sends a communication to the enterprise communications platform  for establishing a conference call session, using the contact information stored in memory . At step , the enterprise communications platform  answers the communication and establishes a conference call session with the device .","In some other example embodiments, at step  if a password is not required (if \u201cno\u201d), the flow diagram  may proceed directly (not shown) to step  to unlock the device , without the specified key sequence prompt.","Referring still to the flow diagram  of , note that, a similar process can be followed with respect to the interface  shown in . For example, the password interface  would be included within the same interface  having the join now  option.","It can be appreciated that the specific words as shown in the various user interfaces are intended to be illustrative only. For example, any suitable words or phrases may be used, and would not be limited to the English language. For example, any number of multi-lingual variations in different languages may be displayed or output from the device.","Variations of the above example methods may be used. While some of the above examples have been described as occurring in a particular order, it will be appreciated to persons skilled in the art that some of the messages or steps or processes may be performed in a different order provided that the result of the changed order of any given step will not prevent or impair the occurrence of subsequent steps. Furthermore, some of the messages or steps described above may be removed or combined in other embodiments, and some of the messages or steps described above may be separated into a number of sub-messages or sub-steps in other embodiments. Even further, some or all of the steps of the conversations may be repeated, as necessary. Elements described as methods or steps similarly apply to systems or subcomponents, and vice-versa.","For example, referring to , the displaying of the join now  option is not limited to the words \u201cJOIN NOW\u201d, but can be any suitable text such as \u201cMEET NOW\u201d. In other example embodiments, the join now  option displays the actual link address (e.g. URL address) of the enterprise communications platform  for joining the conference call.","Variations may be made to some example embodiments, which may include combinations and sub-combinations of any of the above. The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure, such variations being within the intended scope of the present disclosure. In particular, features from one or more of the above-described embodiments may be selected to create alternative embodiments comprised of a sub-combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition, features from one or more of the above-described embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub-combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present disclosure as a whole. The subject matter described herein intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings which show example embodiments, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
