---
title: Method for enabling the electronic propagation mode transition of an electromagnetic interface system
abstract: A propagating mode transition system provides a transition from a free-space-propagating electromagnetic energy field, which is partitioned by an array of elongate elements, to a transverse electromagnetic-mode propagating energy field in a transmission line. Electrically-conductive pads are disposed on a substrate with the pads being arranged in spaced-apart fashion. Each pad is substantially covered by and electrically coupled to one of the elongate elements at a base thereof such that portions of each pad not covered by the base are exposed. Each of a plurality of transmission line baluns extends through the substrate with one end thereof disposed between the exposed portions of two adjacent pads. Each balun includes two identical-width electrical conductors with each conductor being electrically coupled to one of the exposed portions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08610637&OS=08610637&RS=08610637
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08610637
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110531
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to energy transmission interfaces, and more particularly to a propagating mode transition system that provides for bilateral transitioning between free-space-propagating electromagnetic energy and transverse electromagnetic (TEM)-mode propagating energy.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","An electromagnetic radiation interface system and method are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7,420,522 (issued on Sep. 2, 2008). Briefly, the interface is defined by an array of partition elements in the form of pyramidal bristles. The partition elements define an air or space interface between wide-bandwidth electromagnetic radiation and one or more processors. The partition elements can be used in both reception and transmission of electromagnetic radiation.","For efficient operation, there must be a low-loss propagating mode transition system coupled to the partition elements in order to enable low-loss conversion of the free-space-propagating electromagnetic energy captured\/transmitted by the partition elements into \u201ctransverse electromagnetic\u201d (TEM)-mode propagating energy. Due to the close-pack nature of the array of partition elements (i.e., smaller than a wavelength of operation), propagating mode transition must take place in confined spaces.","Accordingly, it is a primary object and general purpose of the present invention to provide a propagating mode transition system that can bilaterally define a transition mode between free-space-propagating electromagnetic energy and TEM-mode propagating energy where the free-space-propagating electromagnetic energy is captured by or transmitted from an array of elongated elements.","In accordance with the present invention, a system for transitioning free-space-propagating electromagnetic energy that is partitioned by a plurality of pyramidal elements into transverse electromagnetic (TEM)-mode propagating energy in a transmission line is provided. An array of electrically-conductive pads is disposed on a substrate with the pads being arranged in spaced-apart fashion. Each pad is substantially covered by and electrically coupled to one of the pyramidal elongate elements at a base thereof such that portions of each pad not covered by the square base are exposed. Each of a plurality of baluns extends through the substrate with one end thereof disposed between the exposed portions of two adjacent pads. Each balun is defined by a dielectric material sandwiched between two identical width electrical conductors that form a parallel plate TEM-mode transmission line. Each of the electrical conductors is electrically coupled to one of the exposed portions.","Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to , a propagating transition mode system in accordance with the present invention is shown and is referenced by numeral . In general, the system  provides for bilateral signal propagation between (i) an array  of elongate partition elements  that can sense or transmit free-space-propagating electromagnetic energy referenced by two-headed arrow , and (ii) a number of unbalanced electrical connections . Such an array of partition elements is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7,420,522, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","The system  enables the low-loss conversion of the free-space-propagating electromagnetic energy  into \u201ctransverse electromagnetic\u201d (TEM)-mode propagating energy in balanced transmission lines that are electronically coupled to the connections . The system  is also capable of reversing this conversion so that the system can also be used to transmit energy from the array . The partition elements  and the connections  are not part of the system  and are, therefore, illustrated in dashed-line form.","The system  includes a dielectric support substrate  with a number of electronically-conductive seats or pads  (e.g., copper) positioned (e.g., deposited, adhered, etc.) on substrate. The number of pads  is commensurate with the number of partition elements . The pads  are spaced apart from one another on the substrate . Each partition element  is coupled to the substrate  for mechanical support and for electrical connection to one of the pads. The method of mechanical coupling of the partition elements  to the substrate  is not a limitation of the present invention. The pads  are larger in area than the base B of the partition element  such that exposed regions A not covered by the base extend radially outward therefrom.","Adjacent ones of the partition elements  are electrically coupled to either side of a balanced transmission line. In the present invention, this is accomplished by a balun  that passes through the substrate  such that one end thereof resides in the space between two adjacent pads . The balun  has equal-width electrical conductors  and  on opposing faces of a dielectric\/insulator . That is, each balun  defines a balanced transmission line.","As will be explained further below, each of the conductors  and  is electrically coupled to an exposed region A of one of pads . The other ends of the conductors  and  are electrically coupled to the unbalanced electrical connections . Supports  (or a unitary support assembly) can be provided to mechanically support the balun  in the spatial region between the substrate  and the connections . A variety of types of supports (e.g., rails) or support systems can be used without departing from the scope of the present invention.","An embodiment of the present invention that provides low-loss mode transition and is capable of wideband operation is illustrated in . Referring first to , a plan view of four pads  on the substrate  is illustrated. It is to be understood that many more than four pads would typically be provided. A mounting hole  can be provided centrally through each pad  and substrate  such that a mounting peg or screw (not shown) can be inserted therethrough and used to secure a partition element (not shown) on the pad as mentioned above. Again, the type of mechanical mounting of the partition elements is not a limitation of the present invention.","Balun receiving holes  are also formed in the substrate  between each adjacent pair of pads . The holes  are sized\/shaped to facilitate insertion of a balun  (only one is shown in  for clarity of illustration) therethrough as will explained later herein.","In the illustrated embodiment, the pads  are shaped for cooperation with a partition element having a square base. This type of partition element polarizes incident electromagnetic energy into two orthogonal polarization components. The square base will rest on one of the pads  so that it is electrically coupled, thereto. More specifically, the pads  are configured such that a square base will overlay or cover an inscribed square on the pad as indicated by the square defined by dashed lines . For clarity of illustration, this is shown only on one pad . With the square base of a partition element inscribed on the pad ; four exposed regions A are defined with each exposed region A lying along an edge of the square . In the illustrated embodiment, each exposed region A is a symmetrical trapezoid with outboard edge or top thereof T being parallel to a side of square the . For greatest efficiency (i.e., lowest loss), the length \u201cL\u201d of top T should be equal to the width \u201cW\u201d of the electrical conductors  and . The top T should, be aligned with the width of one of the conductors  and . This relationship is illustrated in  where one balun  is shown extending through one hole  with the conductors  and  aligned with a corresponding top T associated with two adjacent pads .","Referring now to , a plan and cross-sectional view of an exemplary balun  are illustrated. A dielectric\/insulator  (e.g., conventional printed circuit board substrate material) has equal-width copper conductive traces on opposing faces thereof. In the illustrated embodiment, the balun  has a narrow or tongue portion A sized to cooperate with one of the holes  (). A wider portion B extends as a tongue portion to an opposing end that will serve as the connection point for the connections  (). Any additional electronics required for the system  can be mounted on the dielectric\/insulator  along the portion B.","Referring now to , an enlarged cross-sectional view of a portion of a propagating mode transition system in accordance with embodiment of the present invention between two adjacent partition elements  is illustrated. With the tongue portion A of the balun  protruding through the hole , the conductors  and  are aligned with part of (e.g., top T as illustrated in the embodiment shown in ) the exposed region A of pad  associated with one of the two adjacent partition elements .","In this position, each of the conductors  and  is electrically-coupled to the exposed region A that it faces using a low-loss solder filet  and , respectively. The term \u201clow-loss\u201d as it refers to the solder filets  and  is defined as solder that minimizes the skin-depth IR (or power) losses at the frequency of operation of the system. That is, the solder should be selected to minimize the effects of solder-junction losses at the system operating frequency. Such solder selection is known in the art.","In use, a differential current flows on the surfaces of adjacent partition elements  as referenced by signal current path arrows  and . The differential current is guided between conductors  and  as well as a respective one of exposed regions A by solder filets  and . In accordance with a well-known property of high-frequency currents known as the \u201cskin effect,\u201d the dominant current flow is restricted to the conductor's surface such that the current paths  and  will flow along the surface of the conductors  and . Since the conductors  and  are the same width and oppose one another on either side of the dielectric\/insulator , the current paths  and  flow along the surfaces of the conductors  and  that face the dielectric\/insulator .","Further and as mentioned above, the lowest loss or highest efficiency is achieved when the width of conductors  and  is matched to and aligned with the length of the top T (see ). This ensures a smooth (or minimally-interrupted) flow of current between the partition element  and the conductors  and .","The present invention is readily configured for wideband operation. To illustrate this, a brief example is presented herein. A well-known property of circuit theory is that parts of electrical circuits that are less than one-tenth wavelength at a frequency of interest can be treated as \u201clumped\u201d as opposed to \u201cdistributed.\u201d","In the present invention, the largest dimension in the propagating mode transition system is the separation between the bases of two adjacent partition elements. By way of illustrative example, if this separation distance is 0.213 inches, this translates to a wavelength at 55.5 gigahertz (GHz). For this example, the mode transition system of the present invention can be treated as a simple lumped circuit at frequencies less than 5 GHz (i.e., less than one-tenth of 55.5 GHz). Further, the low-frequency limit for the propagating mode transition is approximately determined by the frequency at which the thickness of the conductors  and  is ten times the skin depth.","For example, if the conductors  and  are 0.01 inch-thick copper traces, the low-frequency limit for the mode transition would be the frequency at which the skin depth in copper is 0.001 inches, which occurs at approximately 5 mega hertz (MHz). Thus, for this example, the bandwidth of the mode transition extends from a low frequency of 5 MHz to a high frequency of 5 GHz for a high-to-low bandwidth ratio of 1000:1. The above theory allows the present invention to be easily scaled for a variety frequency\/bandwidth requirements.","The advantages of the present invention are numerous. The propagating mode transition system provides low-loss wideband transition from free-space propagation to propagation in a balanced transmission line. The mode transition system provides for bilateral signal transfer; thereby, facilitating reception and transmission modes of operation.","It will be understood that many additional changes in the details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon reference to the following description of the preferred embodiments and to the drawings, wherein corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
