---
title: Distributed media system
abstract: An in-flight system provides a user with an entertainment environment including movies, music, games, internet, map, etc. The in-flight system provides stored media content on one or more servers located throughout an aircraft cabin and each server is associated with a plurality of seats. In a preferred embodiment, the in-flight system provides for a communication port (e.g., USB or mini-USB connector or micro-USB connector) for connection to personal electronic device providing access to the server containing the stored media, access to an internet connection, and power. In one embodiment, the in-flight system provides for a seat display unit (typically located in the seat back of the next forward seat) and associated media module hardware to process the stored media content and drive the display. In one embodiment, the in-flight system comprises an isolation module or equivalent circuitry or logic that can isolate the media module and/or the personal electronic device from the remainder of the in-flight system, allowing for updates to the in-flight system without recertification from the FAA.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892792&OS=08892792&RS=08892792
owner: Intheairnet, LLC
number: 08892792
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110912
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application relates generally to in-flight systems.","An in-flight system provides for audio and video contents to a passenger during flight. The in-flight system becomes increasing important during long flights where passengers may associate a quality of service of the airline based on the enhanced experience they obtained with the in-flight system. To accommodate the passengers, airlines resort to providing enhanced features to the in-flight system. However, known in-flight systems are usually in-seat computers connected to a seat back display. The in-seat computers are heavy and costly to maintain. Also, because of the enhanced features that the in-seat computers have to run, heat generated by the in-seat computers is a source of problems. Further, each in-seat computer is connected to a central server with long cable lines. This configuration has potential safety and fire hazard issues.","Cost of an in-flight system is a major issue for the airlines. While passengers demand for enhanced features in an in-flight system, they are not willing to pay a premium for the services. Thus, in most instances, the enhanced features and the in-flight system add to the operating costs of the airlines. Furthermore, in-flight systems may require routine upgrades in order to keep current with the technology. However, known in-flight systems are intertwined with the public announcement and video announcement system of the airline personnel, such that any upgrade of the in-flight system may require the whole in-flight system to be recertified by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Recertifications are costly, time consuming and burdensome. Many airlines simply resort to not upgrading their in-flight systems at all resulting in operating less than up-to-date in-flight systems.","An in-flight system provides a user with an entertainment environment including movies, music, games, internet, map, etc. The in-flight system provides stored media content on one or more servers located throughout an aircraft cabin and each server is associated with a plurality of seats. In a preferred embodiment, the in-flight system provides for a communication port (e.g., USB or mini-USB connector or micro-USB connector) for connection to personal electronic device providing access to the server containing the stored media, access to an internet connection, and power. In one embodiment, the in-flight system provides for a seat display unit (typically located in the seat back of the next forward seat) and associated media module hardware to process the stored media content and drive the display. In one embodiment, the in-flight system comprises an isolation module or equivalent circuitry or logic that can isolate the media module and\/or the personal electronic device from the remainder of the in-flight system, allowing for updates to the in-flight system without recertification from the FAA.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["120","130","120","120","130","120","120","130","120","120"],"i":["a","h ","a","h "]},"In one embodiment, as seen in , a seat  may or may not be provided with a SDU, but instead of or in addition to, would have a user interface . In , a user interface  includes at least one communication port , , , or  (e.g., connectors for USB , mini-USB , micro-USB , and\/or bi-directional headphones ) that provides for a user to connect, via a wired connection  the user's personal electronic device (PED)  with the sector server; the wired connection  providing power, an internet connection, and\/or access to onboard stored media. Examples of PEDs are laptop computers, Blackberries, iphones, ipads, tablets, smart phones, cellular phones, and the like.","In the embodiment where the PEDs  are physically connected to the user interface , a USB connection (e.g.,  or ) may be preferred since the USB connection provides power to the PED as well as charge the PED's battery, if necessary. In the wired connection, an in-arm  user interface  comprises USB  and\/or mini-USB  and\/or micro-USB  connections. In one embodiment, the user interface  is located in the seat arm . In another embodiment, the user interface  is located in a side wall. In another embodiment, the user interface  is located in the seat back where a SDU is located or could be located. The USB connection allows the in-flight system to supply power to PEDs so that said devices can be fully utilized during flight, but leave the aircraft fully charged.","The in-flight system wired connection  solution illustrated in , provides a number of features and advantages to the user. First it provides an accessible internet connection with the in-flight system if internet connection is available. Second, it provides access to stored onboard media. And it provides a power connection to the PED , which in addition to powering the operation of the PED , also recharges the PED's batteries. As can be seen by the presently prolific use of in airport recharge towers, the advantage of being able to power the PED while onboard is huge. Users of PEDs no longer need to wait in line at the station chargers before boarding an aircraft. This feature has remained unavailable, causing dead PEDs before or after flights, particularly on long flights. Likewise, the ability to use your own PED , whether for personal tasks, or to access the in-flight system, provides flexibility and access that have not been previously available to in-flight systems with SDUs. And, even if a user chooses not to use the in-flight system, the user interface , and more specifically USB connector , , or , still would allow the user to recharge their PED .","In an alternative embodiment, the PED may be wirelessly connected to the sector server, for example, using a wireless communication device compatible with the wireless communication component of the PED. In one embodiment, the in-flight system is configured to connect wirelessly to a user PED when they enter the aircraft and if the necessary application software is not available on the PED, the in-flight system may offer to push the application software, so that when the user connects at their seat, their PED comprises the necessary software to access the in-flight system. In one embodiment, when the user connects their PED to the in-flight system, only the specific application software may be used on the PED, and all other functions\/applications are disabled. Exemplary features of the PED seat connectors are that they provide power, an internet connection pipe, and access to stored media content.","Each sector server  is connected to one another in order to communicate with each other and\/or also to share media, information, and data with each other. In this embodiment, the sector servers -are serially connected in a daisy chain, however, in an alternative embodiment, the sector servers -may be connected together in parallel. In either embodiment, the plurality of sector servers -are capable of copying (e.g., mirroring) data to any of the other sector servers -. This architecture is distributed, not requiring media storage or management at a head end or in the seat locations. A flight attendant panel  or a cockpit panel  may be connected to one or more of the sector servers -in the daisy chain. Flight attendant panel  or cockpit panel  allows for an airline personnel to take control of the in-flight system in order to provide, for example, safety, public, security and other messages and\/or announcements. In one embodiment, this means pausing media being played through the in-flight system. In one embodiment, this means stopping the media being played through the in-flight system. The reason for this type of control is FAA regulation that requires that no aircraft controllable system interferes with aircraft personnel communications with users, particularly with regard to safety announcements.","An aircraft interface module  may be connected to one or more of the sector servers  in the daisy chain to provide, among other things, flight data such as GPS coordinates, speed, altitude, time, temperature, yaw, pitch, and roll values. This data may be used by the sector servers -, for example, in conjunction with a map program at the sector servers -, to provide a user with information regarding the status of the flight. Usually, the communication between aircraft interface module  and sector servers -is a one-way communication, that is, aircraft interface module  sends flight data and one or more sector servers -receive the flight data. This isolates the sector server  from being able to send or write data to the aircraft interface module .","In one embodiment, a media loader module  may be connected to one or more of the sector servers -. The media loader module  may be used to upload and\/or download media contents and information to\/from the aircraft from\/to an external entity . For example the media contents may be movie, music, maps, internet, preprogrammed media contents for the aircraft, airline status\/transfer information, or any other media contents and information required by the aircraft or a user of the aircraft. External entity  may be third party media content providers, the airline, or another aircraft. Alternatively, external entity  may be a terrestrial media storage facility for the in-flight system. Media loader module  may communicate with the external entity  through a wired or wireless communication medium while the aircraft is on the ground, or through a wireless communication medium while the aircraft is taxing or flying at an altitude where wireless communication is possible, or through a satellite at higher altitudes. In one embodiment, media loader module  is directly connected to one sector server (e.g., in ), and is used to load specialized material (e.g., GUIs, fonts, graphics, etc.) and\/or mass media updates from local removable storage that would be more efficiently updated locally than via an external entity .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","210","220","230","240","220"]},"In one embodiment, the media module  may be the same or similar to the electronic components that are found in a personal electronic device (PED) that is used to send and receive media contents. The media module  may operate under one or more platforms. In this embodiment, the media module  at least supports the Google Android\u2122 application programming interface (API) provided by the Android\u2122 platform. The media module  may run one or more Android\u2122 applications in order to communicate with the sector server that also runs on a platform, for example the Android\u2122 platform. The application that is written to run on the media module  allows the media module  to access the media contents through the sector server. The media module  may communicate with the sector server through Ethernet and the like. This communication may occur via the network using one or more sockets, ports, etc. In one embodiment, the media module  may access stored media content via a USB connection using Android\u2122 android.hardware.usb package. The media module  may mount the stored media, which may be stored in different physical storage devices, as a conventional file system in order to access the media contents therein. As understood in the art, media module  may comprise one or more device drivers to access the stored media, whether it is by a network or physical storage device. In one embodiment, when the stored media is encrypted, using AES-256 for example, media module  also includes the requisite decryption software to the stored media after accessing the contents therein. When the media module  is accessing the sector server via a wireless network using, for example, wireless fidelity (Wi-Fi) protocol, the media module  may be implemented using Android\u2122 android.net.wifi package to access the sector server. Further information on the Android\u2122 application programming interface (API) and software development kit (SDK) may be found at the Android developers' website.","Whether the media contents requested by the media module  are received by the media module  is dependent on the mode of the isolator\/driver module . In the \u201cisolation\u201d mode, the isolator\/driver module  prevents or halts the media contents from being received by the media module . In the \u201cpass\u201d mode, the isolator\/driver module  allows the requested media contents to be received by the media module . Simply stated, the isolator\/driver module  serves to perform as a pass-through module of data when an aircraft interface interaction is not being performed, and serves to isolate or prevent the display  from displaying the media content requested by the user when an aircraft interface interaction is being performed. Examples of the aircraft interface interaction may be an audio and\/or video announcement from the airline personnel regarding safety, security, or general announcement. It should be noted, that isolator\/driver module  or some related circuitry also filters input request from user input module  or touchscreen display  as will be described in more detail below with reference to finite state machine . The same principles may be implement in isolator\/driver module .","In one embodiment, the isolator\/driver module  is a finite state machine formed using a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA). However, the isolator\/driver module  need not necessarily be limited to a FPGA and may be formed using an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a complex programmable logic device (CPLD) or other suitable integrated circuit devices. In one embodiment, a FPGA available from Xilinx\u00ae Inc., located in San Jose, Calif., USA, may be used. As an example, the Virtex-5 series may be used. An example of a finite state machine based on a FPGA may be found in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61\/449,960, filed Mar. 7, 2011, which is incorporated herein be reference in its entirety for all purposes. The isolator\/driver module  that is configured as a finite state machine transitions to a state in a finite number of states when triggered by an event in the in-flight system. Examples of an event may be when the media module  of the SDU  indicates that the module is malfunctioning, or when a flight attendant panel or cockpit panel indicates that a public announcement (PA) or a video announcement (VA) is to be made. Simply put, the finite state machine is driven by events.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"230"},"Referring to , at state , the isolator\/driver module  initializes to set up and verify its functionality. Once the isolator\/driver module  verifies that all functions are operating correctly, the state machine transitions to state , which is the Local Menu. In this state, the media module  outputs are disconnected and the isolator\/driver module  provides the video and audio data to be displayed in the display . Because the media module  is disconnected in this state, media module  can be updated, such as, for example, an update of the Android\u2122 application.","If the user selects an attendant call from the Local Menu state , for example, through the user input module  or the touchscreen display, this event would trigger the finite state machine to transition to state . At state , the isolator\/driver module  may cause information to be displayed at the display  indicating that the attendant call has be activated and\/or cause information to be displayed at the flight attendant panel  indicating that attendant attention is needed by the user. Here, the isolator\/driver module  causes video and\/or audio information to be generated at the user's display  and\/or the flight attendant panel . In one embodiment, attendant call information is displayed over the local menu of the user's display . The finite state machine may transition back to state  if the user clears the attendant call or the flight attendant clears the call.","When the user requests media content from the sector server  at the Local Menu , the isolator\/driver module  queries the media module  for operational status. If the media module  signals to the isolator\/driver module  that it is fully functional, the finite state machine transitions from state  to Media, which is state . In state , the media module  is utilized to access the media content from the sector server , and the isolator\/driver module  passes through the media content requested by the user through the media module . Therefore, media content such as games, pictures, internet, map, and movies, etc. as requested by the user may be run and displayed at the display  through the media module . If the media module  is malfunctioning (i.e., a fault is detected) or a timeout occurs, the state machine of the isolator\/driver module  does not transition to state , but instead remains at state , which means that the media module  will not be used in the SDU . In one embodiment, the FPGA includes an emergency video and\/or audio engine which the isolator\/driver module  could fall back on, which is capable of accessing data from the sector server and generating video and audio signals to be displayed on the display , so that full functionality of the in-flight system at the SDU will not be lost. In that case, isolator\/driver module  becomes the driver for the media contents and communicates with sector server . For example, a system for accomplishing this FPGA driven media presentation along with interaction with a server is disclosed in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61\/449,960, filed Mar. 7, 2001, which is fully incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.","When the in-flight system requires isolation from media contents provided by the media module  or, in certain instance, provided by the isolator\/driver module , for example for public safety announcements, the state machine of the isolator\/driver module  transitions to another state , which is PA\/VA. In this state, the isolator\/driver module  stops, pauses, filters, or simply disconnects the flow of data (either media content and\/or display data) from being output through a media module , or in certain instances, the isolator\/driver module . As shown in , state  may be entered from either the Local Menu (state ) or the Media (state ). From either state  or state , the finite state machine transitions to state  triggered by a signal (e.g., keyline or system message) for a public announcement or video announcement regarding safety of the passengers, for example. Once the system message (i.e., PA\/VA signal) is cleared, the finite state machine returns to its previous state  or state . While the isolator\/driver module  is in PA\/VA (state ), the media module  output, or, in certain circumstances, media content outputted by the isolator\/driver module , is disconnected and the isolator\/driver module  generates video and\/or audio outputs corresponding to the public announcement or video announcement.","While the user is in the Media (state ) viewing or otherwise accessing media content, they may request an attendant call which may cause the state machine to enter Media Att Call (state ), which would, for example, display information over media content being viewed. This may be exited by the user again pressing the attendant call button or the flight attendant clearing the call. In state , the media module  output is not prevented or blocked by the isolator\/driver module  and the isolator\/driver module  instead overlays locally generated video (e.g., that an \u201cAttendant has been called\u201d) to the media content at the display . The transition out of state  puts the finite state machine to transition to Media state .","In all states of the finite state machine, the isolator\/driver module  is in control of the output (i.e., video and audio) whether (i) pass-through, (ii) isolate, or (iii) driven. In one embodiment, in all states of the finite state machine, the isolator\/driver module  may accept user input to turn on the reading light. And each state of the finite state machine is configured to generate system messages for activating the reading light. In one embodiment, every state of the isolator\/driver module's  finite state machine , except the PA\/VA state , allows the isolator\/driver module  to generate a system message to activate the reading light. In yet another embodiment, a user request for a reading light requires the state machine  to enter either Local Attendant Call state  or Media Attendant Call state .","Because the media module  may be isolated or blocked from having access to media contents from the sector server  using the isolator\/driver module , media module  upgrades may be made without requiring the entire in-flight system to be recertified by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). This is because isolator\/driver module  may function to isolate or block the media module  and thereby, the media module  is isolated or blocked from competing with the public announcements and video announcements made by the airline personnel. Media module  may be updated with software\/firmware, or even physically replaced, without recertification.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","150","400","130","400","400"]},"Each sector server  comprises a storage device  for storing a large collection of media content such as movies, pictures, maps, games, queued internet pages, music, etc. In one embodiment, the storage device  may be partitioned in accordance with a number of elements. For example, and without limitation, the partitions may comprise, new (movies, music, etc.), classics (movies, music, etc.), foreign (musics, music, etc.) and the like. According to one embodiment, the storage device  may include a personal partition space for each seat for unique movies, music, etc.). Thus, while the majority of the media contents comprise standard movies, music, games, etc., that appeal to a majority of the users, a selection of movies, music, games, etc., are stored in the storage device that are tailored specifically to a user which the sector server  is servicing.","In one embodiment, the sector server  also includes a Secure Digital (SD) memory device , which stores airline\/aircraft specific personalization data, for example, airline logos, specialized fonts, local menu backgrounds, airline safety presentation, etc. This data may be used to present the user with a local menu setup, which will have some standardized selections (e.g., buttons, menus, etc. . . . ).","In one embodiment, the sector server  may also include an input\/output port, such as a USB port and the like, to receive a removable memory device such as the SD memory device. The SD memory device may contain graphic image data that may be used by a isolator\/driver module  for displaying one or more graphic images at the SDU or the PED. The sector server  may further include one or more input\/output (I\/O) interfaces from which the sector server  may communicate with other sector servers, a SDU or a PED, or server\/seat interface may communicate with the sector server  and from which the sector server  may communicate with the server\/seat interface.","A connectivity server  may be a blade system including one or more blades in a blade enclosure. The one or more blade servers may be commercially available through Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Dell, Cisco, and etc. In general, the connectivity server  may include a microprocessor or a plurality of microprocessors that execute a sequence of instructions based on one or more inputs received by the connectivity server  and usually the connectivity server  outputs one or more results based on the executed sequence of instructions. The connectivity server  may further include a memory, which may be volatile, such as Dynamic Random Access Memories (DRAMs) or Static Random Access Memories (SRAMs). The connectivity server  connects to SD memory device  if the sector server  includes SD memory device , and to one or more storage devices  such as a hard drive and\/or an optical drive all which are coupled together through a bus. In the case of the storage device , the connectivity server  may access the storage device  through a storage device controller such as a Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA) controller. The connectivity server  may use the storage device  to store and execute instructions of an operating system or an application, and\/or to store and manipulate data. The storage device  is used to store the operating system and applications which the connectivity server  may retrieve to the memory when needed, and is used to store data which among others pertains to moving maps showing progress of flight, movies, shopping, games, and information of interest to a user. While various operating systems, which may be customized or commercially available, may be used, in this embodiment, the connectivity server may use Android\u2122 platform.","The connectivity server  communicates with SDUs (e.g., ), other sector servers (e.g., -), the flight attendant panel (e.g., ), the cockpit panel (e.g., ), the aircraft interface module (e.g., ), and the media loader module (e.g., ) through a Communications Mezzanine , which may operate under Ethernet protocol, USB protocol, and\/or Wi-Fi protocol, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","510","530","500","520","510","530","410","210","430"]},"In one embodiment, the sector server  may also include an input\/output port, such as a USB port and the like, to receive a removable memory device such as a Secure Digital (SD) memory device. The SD memory device may contain graphic image data that may be used by a PED for displaying one or more graphic images on the PED. The sector server  may further include one or more input\/output (I\/O) interfaces from which the sector server  may communicate with other sector servers, a PED, or server\/seat interface may communicate with the sector server  and from which the sector server  may communicate with the server\/seat interface.","In one embodiment, as shown in , and unlike the exemplary sector server  shown in , the connectivity server  does not connect to the communications mezzanine , but rather passes through an isolator\/driver module  which may or may not be the same as isolator\/driver module . For example, the isolator\/driver module  may not require any functions to drive a display (e.g., ). In this embodiment, the media module (PED) is placed at a downstream location of isolator\/driver module  and thus, the data communications to the media module (PED) is also passed through the isolator\/driver module  and can be paused, filtered, stalled, cut-off, etc., as needed. This embodiment supports the situation where the media module is actually a user supplied personal electronic device (PED) brought onto the plane and connected to the user interface of a seat, for example arm or seat back, via for example USB such that in addition to data and\/or internet connectivity, power is also supplied. In this embodiment, data, such as media content, may be paused, filtered, stalled, cut-off, etc., before going to the PED and thus, the in-flight system does not need to take control of the PED.","To establish a communication with the in-flight system, the user may have to install an application in their PED. Thus, when the user connects their PED to a user interface (or otherwise connects to the sector server system), such as, for example, a USB connection, which may be located at the arm of the seat or seatback, the servicing sector server detects whether the application has been installed at the PED, and if it is not, the user may download the application for access to the media contents provided by the sector server. In the event that the user chooses not to have access to the media contents of the sector server, the user, by connecting the PED to the user interface via the USB connection, would still be able to utilize the power supply to power the PED.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","550","550","610","550","600","620","620","500","500","120","190"]},"In one embodiment, when the PED connects with the sector server  and the installed application requests access to media contents from the sector server , at state , a security handshake may occur between the sector server and the PED in order to verify that the PED and installed application are authorized and also capable for accessing the sector server . Once the security handshake is completed, the finite state machine  may transition to state , which is the Media state. At state , the sector server  provides the requested media content, which may be streamed through the USB connection to the PED. Therefore, media such as games, pictures, and movies, etc. may utilize the hardware of the PED to enhance the capability of the in-flight system.","When the aircraft signals, for example, a public safety announcement, the finite state machine  transitions to state , which is PA\/VA. At state , the sector server  stops, pauses, filters, or simply disconnects the flow of media content from being output to the PED. State  may be entered from either the state , Menu, or the state , Media. From either state  or state , state  is entered by a signal (e.g., keyline or system message) for a public announcement or video announcement regarding safety of the passengers. Once the system message (e.g., PA\/VA signal) is cleared the finite state machine may return to its previous state  or state .","In one embodiment, in all states of the finite state machine , the isolator\/driver module  is in control of the audio and video output. Therefore, in all states the isolator\/driver module  is capable of accepting user input from the PED or a seat control unit to turn on the reading light. Thus, in this embodiment, for each state of the finite state machine, the isolator\/driver module  is configured to generate system messages for activating the reading light. In one embodiment, every state of finite state machine  except the PA\/VA state  allows the isolator\/driver module  to generate a system message to activate the reading light.","In order to protect against intrusions (e.g., hacker, viruses, spybots, etc. . . . ) from a PED into the sector server  and particularly into connectivity server , the finite state machine also comprises a finite number of states (not shown) for handling the input request of the PED. For example, from state  or state , there may be a number of options displayed on the user PED allowing them to input to the system. For instance, from the Menus state , there may be a number of choices shown on the PED for, such as, displaying a map, connecting to the internet, viewing or listening to stored media, calling an attendant, or turning on a reading light. If the PED attempts to send a command or instruction that is not one of the available choices, the finite state machine of the isolation\/driver module simply prompts the available option and does not forward the command or instructions to the connectivity server , effectively ignoring or dropping the PED command or instruction. Alternatively, choosing one of these options will cause a particular packet of data to be send from the PED to the connectivity server . If the sent packet is not part of a list of expected packet (e.g., that represent the actions listed above), said packets may be discarded by the connectivity server . This same procedure holds true in other modes of the state machine, such as Media state . While the delineated function calls above are not exhaustive of what may be contained within the system, they are meant to be illustrative of the feature that the sector server  is designed such that only authorized packets are able to flow into the server.","In addition to only allowing authorized packets to enter the sector server , the operating system running on the connectivity server also does not have any commonly used ports, as a person of ordinary skill in the art would understand, open. Therefore, the sector server  has multiple levels of security against communications from the PED affecting the status of the sector server  and particularly the connectivity server .","The SDU system described earlier may comprise this same type of intrusion protection scheme and protected operating system, if desired.","By the use of the isolator\/driver module  in the in-flight system, the in-flight system, including the PEDs, does not require the entire in-flight system be recertified by the FAA even though the software of the PEDs are routinely upgraded, or that the PEDs have never been certified by the FAA. This is because isolator\/driver module  may function to electrically isolate the PED and may prevent the PED from tampering with the sector server such that the PED does not interfere with the public announcements or video announcements made by an airline personnel as well as the sector server.","In one embodiment, sector server  does not comprise an isolator\/driver module  and the connectivity server  is connected directly to the communications mezzanine . In this embodiment, the pausing or stopping of the of the media data to the PED is done by the connectivity server  of the server . In one embodiment, there is an FPGA wrapper around the connectivity server  that performs the functions of state machine  as described above. In yet another embodiment, there is no pausing of the media stream and the server  continues to supply media data even when a PA\/VA occurs.","As mentioned earlier, each sector server \/\/ comprises a partitioned amount of space for customized media associated with the seats served by the respective sector server \/\/. This personal partition may be used to store particular movies, music, games, etc. that are only chosen for the seat associated with that particular partition. In one embodiment, prior to aircraft departure (i.e., taxing upon arrival or while at the gate), the manifest for the next flight is input into the in-flight system. The in-flight system may then check against a database, either stored locally or remotely, as to whether there is known preferences of passengers of the next flight. This may be done for example by requiring each user to initially set-up a login account if they desire personalized content to be available to them. In one embodiment, this type of account could be fee based. If a user has stored preferences, those preferences (GUI look, content, etc.) are loaded into the personal partition in sector server \/\/ storage media \/. The personalized or general preferences appear as specific content and information menus. The customization may be referred to as \u201ccontext.\u201d That is, media, fonts, graphics, etc. can be loaded into sector server \/\/ as unique context, for example, per airline, or per flight, or per destination, or per user. The updating of the media in a sector server \/\/ may be accomplished via media loader module  discussed previously. In one embodiment this update occurs during the taxing of the aircraft after landing. Alternatively, in another embodiment, a hardwire or wireless network connection may service the aircraft at the gate, at which time the sector server \/\/ may be updated. The daisy chained sector server \/\/ are also able to copy among other things content from one sector server \/\/ to another sector server \/\/ utilizing the overhead\/transfer partition space in the sector server \/\/. This feature is useful in situations where the media storage has been updated with data for a certain passenger seating arrangement, and then there are last minute changes to the seating arrangement. The sector server \/\/ are able to mirror the personal data from one sector server \/\/ to another sector server \/\/. In one embodiment, the general partitions (e.g., new and classics) are identical on each sector server \/\/ and thus do not need to be copied.","In one embodiment, the status of media usage for a user is maintained in the personal partition associated with the user and then saved into the account information, such that if the user is making a connection flight they can continue the media application in another aircraft with the same system, where they left off. This is also part of the maintained \u201ccontext\u201d or even better described as the \u201cpersistent context.\u201d In one embodiment, the status of media viewing is saved on the user PED and later communicate to a sector server on a subsequent flight. In one embodiment, a master account database saves the user media selection(s) and the status of media viewing, and the master database is accessible via the internet (e.g., on their PED). In yet another embodiment, sector server(s) store information on the airports that are serviced by the particular airline having the present in-flight system installed. The system may offer a push of data comprising the arrival airport information for any user that has their PED connected to the system. This data may comprise information on food and other services in the airport, connecting gate information, and support a guidance application to navigate the user through the airport.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["730","720","740","730","740","730","730","730","720","720"],"i":["a","a","a ","a","a ","b","b ","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["810","820","810","820","850","830","840","130","810","820"]},"In one embodiment, the camera located, for example, in SDU  or PED  is used to recognize hand and\/or facial gestures to manipulate the user input, as discussed above. For example, while watching a movie a user may swipe their hand right-to-left to rewind a certain amount or left-to-right to skip forward a certain amount. There are a plurality of additional hand gesture gestures that might be used, and a plurality of input actions that can be associated with said hand gestures. In one embodiment, the user might personalize the association of hand gestures to input actions. This personalization may be saved (and then uploaded or downloaded) in the personal partition area of a sector server mentioned earlier.","Although various embodiments of the invention have been described, one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that there could be variations to the embodiments and those variations would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly, many modifications may be made by one of ordinary skill in there are without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
