---
title: Container for storing devices with energetic material
abstract: A storage container for storing a device containing energetic material may include a metal wall. A venting window may be disposed in the metal wall. The venting window may include a plurality of metal supports that define a plurality of openings therebetween. An ionomer material may cover the plurality of openings. The ionomer material may have a melting temperature lower than an ignition temperature of the energetic material in the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08701877&OS=08701877&RS=08701877
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08701877
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110929
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","The invention relates in general to storage containers for devices containing energetic material and in particular to storage containers that meet insensitive munitions (IM) requirements.","Containers may be used to store devices containing energetic material. For example, ammunition containers may be used to store one or more munitions. The munitions may contain energetic material that may produce gas when subjected to unplanned stimuli. This gas may require a way to escape from the ammunition container in a non-violent way. Ammuntion containers for munitions may be required to comply with Insensitive Munitions (IM) requirements set forth in MIL-STD-2105C and Ammunition Packaging requirements set forth in MIL-STD-1904A.","Regarding IM requirements, two tests may be used to simulate ammunition containers exposed to a fire, a slow cook off test (SCO) and a fast cook off test (FCO). In SCO, an ammunition container containing one or more munitions may be heated at a rate of 6\u00b0 F.\/hour until the munition reacts. In FCO, an ammunition container containing one or more munitions may be engulfed in a flame of at least 800\u00b0 C. until the munition reacts. It may be desirable for the reaction to be limited to no more than burning (Type 5 reaction). A detonation (Type 1 reaction) may not be acceptable.","One way to comply with IM requirements for ammunition containers is to include a venting window in the ammunition container. High pressure and\/or temperature produced by munitions in the ammunition container may cause the venting window in the ammunition container to rupture or open, thereby releasing the high pressure gas before the munition in the container undergoes a violent reaction. But, the venting window must be strong enough to meet rough handling requirements for ammunition containers. Before and after the rough handling tests, the ammunition container must be able to contain an internal air pressure of at least three psi with a leakage rate of no more than five cc\/minute.","Venting windows have been successfully used in ammunition containers such as the Modular Artillery Charge System (MACS) ammunition container. For the MACS container, the venting window was made of a glass-filled ionomer plastic. To pass rough handling tests, the ionomer plastic had to be at least 40% glass-filled. Ionomer plastic vent windows with a glass fill higher than 40% were found to inhibit the venting of the window. When the venting window of the MACS container was used in other ammunition containers, such as, for example, a PA19 container, the vent window failed to open during cook off tests. Reducing the percentage of glass fill in the venting window or decreasing the thickness of the venting window allowed the venting window to rupture. On the other hand, neither the reduced-glass content venting window nor the thinner venting window passed the rough handling requirements.","A need exists for a storage container for devices with energetic material wherein the storage container meets both IM requirements and rough handling requirements.","It is an object of the invention to provide a storage container for devices with energetic material wherein the storage container meets both IM requirements and rough handling requirements.","One aspect of the invention is a storage container for storing a device containing energetic material. The storage container may include a metal wall and a venting window disposed in the metal wall. The venting window may include a plurality of metal supports that define a plurality of openings therebetween and ionomer material that covers the plurality of openings. The ionomer material may have a melting temperature lower than an ignition temperature of the energetic material in the device. The storage container may include glass fill disposed in the ionomer material. The device or devices stored in the container may be, for example, munitions.","In one embodiment, the plurality of openings may be perforations formed in the metal wall, the metal supports may be portions of the metal wall, and the ionomer material may comprise an ionomer plate. In this embodiment, the storage container may further include an inner frame fixed to the metal wall and surrounding the plurality of openings in the metal wall. The ionomer plate may be inserted into the inner frame and over the plurality of openings in the metal wall. An outer frame may be fixed to the metal wall. The outer frame may lock the ionomer plate between the inner frame and the outer frame.","In another embodiment, the metal wall may define an opening for the venting window, the plurality of metal supports that define the plurality of openings therebetween may comprise a perforated metal plate, and the ionomer material may comprise an ionomer plate. In this embodiment, the storage container may further include an inner frame fixed to the metal wall and surrounding the opening for the venting window. The perforated metal plate may be inserted into the inner frame and over the opening for the venting window. The ionomer plate may be inserted into the inner frame and over the perforated metal plate. An outer frame may be fixed to the metal wall. The outer frame may lock the perforated metal plate and the ionomer plate between the inner frame and the outer frame.","In a further embodiment, the metal wall may define an opening for the venting window, the plurality of metal supports that define the plurality of openings therebetween may comprise a perforated metal plate, and the perforated metal plate may be embedded in the ionomer material. The embedded plate and the ionomer material may define a reinforced ionomer plate. In this embodiment, the storage container may further include an inner frame fixed to the metal wall and surrounding the opening for the venting window. The reinforced ionomer plate may be inserted into the inner frame and over the opening for the venting window. An outer frame may be fixed to the metal wall. The outer frame may lock the reinforced ionomer plate between the inner frame and the outer frame.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["10","14","16","10","12","14","16","10"]},"Embodiments of a novel storage container will be described by referring to methods of modifying storage container  by the addition of a venting window. However, one need not construct the novel storage containers by starting with the prior art storage container . Many different methods of constructing the novel storage containers are possible. The addition of a venting window to storage container  may meet the IM requirements of MIL-STD-2105C and the Ammunition Packaging requirements of MIL-STD-1904A.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A-8D","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","18","12","10","18","20","12","22","12","22","18","12","22","12"]},"In , an ionomer plate  () may be inserted into inner frame . Ionomer plate  may completely cover the plurality of openings  in metal wall . Ionomer plate  may include glass fill. Ionomer plate  may have a melting temperature lower than an ignition temperature of energetic material  () in device . In one embodiment, an amount of glass fill in plate  may be less than about 40%. In , a gasket  () and an outer frame  () may be fixed to inner frame  and wall  using, for example, bolts . Outer frame  may lock ionomer plate  between inner frame  and outer frame .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A-E","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","32","12","10","22","12","22","32","12","22","12"]},"In , a perforated metal plate  () may be inserted into inner frame . Perforated metal plate  may cover opening  in wall . In , an ionomer plate  () may be inserted into inner frame  over perforated metal plate . Ionomer plate  may cover perforated metal plate . Ionomer plate  may include glass fill. Ionomer plate  may have a melting temperature lower than an ignition temperature of energetic material  () in device . In one embodiment, an amount of glass fill in plate  may be less than about 40%. In , gasket  () and outer frame  () may be fixed to inner frame  and wall  using, for example, bolts . Outer frame  may lock perforated metal plate  and ionomer plate  between inner frame  and outer frame .","As an alternative to perforated metal plate  and ionomer plate , a reinforced ionomer plate  () may be inserted into inner frame  after frame  is fixed to wall  over opening . Then, gasket  () and outer frame  () may be fixed to inner frame  and wall  using, for example, bolts . Reinforced ionomer plate  () may include a perforated metal plate, such as plate  () embedded in ionomer material . Reinforced ionomer plate  may be formed, for example, by injection molding. Ionomer material  in reinforced ionomer plate  may have a melting temperature lower than an ignition temperature of energetic material  () in device .","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A-8D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A-E"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
