---
title: Non-wireless bidirectional communication between a mobile device and associated secure element using an audio port
abstract: In some embodiments, a system includes a mobile communication device and a secure element physically coupled to the mobile communication device. The mobile communication device includes a first wireless transceiver, first processor, first memory, first speaker, first microphone, first Audio To Digital conversion (ADC), and audio port. The secure element includes a second wireless transceiver, second processor, second memory, second Audio To Digital conversion (ADC), second Digital To Audio conversion (DAC), and cable with 3.55 mm plug that is inserted into the audio port of the mobile communication device. The mobile communication device is configured to transmit data non-wirelessly via the cable to the secure element using an analog signal. The secure element is configured to transmit data non-wirelessly via the cable inserted into the audio port of the the mobile communication device using an analog signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08792939&OS=08792939&RS=08792939
owner: 
number: 08792939
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY","RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims priority U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/445,667, entitled \u201cNon-Wireless Bidirectional Communication Between a Mobile Device and Associated Secure Element using an Audio Port\u201d filed on Feb. 23, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/431,007, entitled \u201cNon-Wireless Bidirectional Communication Between a Mobile Device and Associated Secure Element\u201d filed on Jan. 10, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/429,246 entitled \u201cWireless Bidirectional Communications between a Mobile Device and Associated Secure Element using Inaudible Sound Waves,\u201d filed Jan. 3, 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/948,717, entitled \u201cWireless Bidirectional Communications between a Mobile Device and Associated Secure Element,\u201d filed Nov. 17, 2010 which is a continuation in part U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/933,321, entitled \u201cMethod and System for Adapting a Wireless Mobile Communication Device for Wireless Transactions,\u201d filed Oct. 31, 2007, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/467,441, entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Completing a Transaction Using a Wireless Mobile Communication Channel and Another Communication Channel,\u201d filed Aug. 25, 2006, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60\/766,171 and 60\/766,172. All of the above-referenced patent applications are incorporated by reference herein.","Other patents referenced include U.S patent application Ser. No 13\/308,440 entitled \u201cAutomatic Redemption Of Digital Artifacts Using An NFC Enabled Mobile Device\u201d filed on Nov. 30, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 13\/184,209 entitled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital artifacts between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Jul. 15, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/442,384 entitled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Feb. 14, 2011; U.S patent application Ser. No. 13\/229,004, entitled \u201cStreamlining NFC Transactions With Multiple Secure Elements\u201d filed on Sep. 9, 2011 which is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 13\/213,840, entitled \u201cTransferring Data Between NFC Enabled Mobile Devices With Multiple Secure Elements\u201d filed on Aug. 19, 2011 which is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 13\/208,247, entitled \u201cTransferring Data Between NFC Enabled Mobile Devices \u201d filed on Aug. 11,2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 13\/184,209, entitled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital artifacts between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Jul. 15, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/442,384, entitled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Feb. 14, 2011;, U.S patent application Ser. No. 13\/221,706, entitled, \u201cDynamic Provisioning of NFC Applications\u201d filed Aug. 30, 2011 which is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 13\/213,840, entitled \u201cTransferring Data Between NFC Enabled Mobile Devices With Multiple Secure Elements\u201d filed on Aug. 19, 2011 which is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 13\/208,247, entitled \u201cTransferring Data Between NFC Enabled Mobile Devices \u201d filed on Aug. 11,2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 13\/184,209, entitled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital artifacts between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Jul. 15, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/442,384, entitled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Feb. 14, 2011; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/216,098 entitled, \u201cStreamlining NFC Transactions Using A Mobile Communication Device \u201d filed on Aug. 23, 2011 which is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S patent application Ser. No. 13\/215,069 entitled \u201cTransferring Data From an NFC Enabled Mobile Device to a Remote Device\u201d filed on Aug. 22, 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S patent application Ser. No. U.S. Pat. No. 13\/213,840, entitled \u201cTransferring Data Between NFC Enabled Mobile Devices With Multiple Secure Elements\u201d filed on Aug. 19, 2011 which is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 13\/208,247, entitled \u201cTransferring Data Between NFC Enabled Mobile Devices \u201d filed on Aug. 11,2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 13\/184,209, entitled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital artifacts between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Jul. 15, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/442,384, entitled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Feb. 14, 2011, U.S patent application Ser. No 13\/195,055, entitled, \u201cSocial Media Marketing Based on Transactions Using a Mobile Device and Associated Secure Element filed on August 1, 2011, U.S patent application Ser. No. 13\/184,246, entitled \u201cUsing a Mobile Device to Enable Purchase of Deals and Increase Customer Loyalty\u201d filed on Jul. 15, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61\/504,088 titled \u201cUsing a mobile device to enable purchase of deals and increase customer loyalty\u201d filed on Jul. 1, 2011; U.S patent application Ser. No. 13\/184,209 Method And Systems Of Loading And Unloading Digital Artifacts Between A Mobile Device And An Associated Secure Element And Other Remote Devices filed on Jul. 15, 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61\/442,384 titled \u201cMethod and Systems of loading and unloading digital between a mobile device with an associated secure element and other remote devices\u201d filed on Feb. 14, 2011; U.S patent application Ser. No. 11\/944,267, entitled \u201cMethod and System for Delivering Information to a mobile communication device based on consumer transactions\u201d, filed Nov. 21, 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/956,261 entitled \u201cMethod and System for Delivering Customized Information To A Mobile Communication Device Based on User Affiliations\u201d, filed Dec. 13, 2007. All of the above-referenced patent applications are incorporated by reference herein.","The disclosed embodiments relate generally to wireless communications for a mobile device, and more particularly, to wireless communications between a mobile device and an associated secure element using sound waves.","A secure element can be physically coupled to a mobile communication device to allow for transactions with remote terminals such as point-of-sale and point-of-entry terminals. Implementing wireless communications between the mobile communication device and the secure element, however, presents challenges. For example, it is desirable to transmit data between the mobile communication device and the secure element in a manner that allows for easy receipt of the data especially in cases where a wireless carrier network or WIFI connection is not available. Also, a method of communication between the mobile communication device and the secure element should allow for convenient activation of the secure element and remote deactivation of the secure element.","Disclosed embodiments allow a mobile communication device to communicate non-wirelessly with a secure element that is physically coupled to the mobile communication device. Communications from the mobile communication device to the secure element use a different protocol than communications from the secure element to the mobile communication device.","In some embodiments, a system includes a mobile communication device and a secure element physically coupled to the mobile communication device. The mobile communication device includes a first wireless transceiver, first processor, first memory, first microphone, first speaker, first audio to digital converter(ADC), first battery, and audio port. The secure element includes a second wireless transceiver, second processor, second memory, a second audio to digital converter (ADC), a second audio to digital to audio converter (DAC), and an audio cable with 3.55 mm plug that can be inserted into audio port of mobile communication device. The mobile communication device is configured to transmit data via the audio cable connected to the secure element. The secure element is configured to transmit data via the audio cable to the mobile communication device","In some embodiments, a method of communicating between a mobile communication device and a secure element physically coupled to the mobile communication device is performed. The mobile communication device includes a first microphone, first wireless transceiver, first processor, and first memory, and the secure element includes a second wireless transceiver, second processor, and second memory. The method includes non-wireless transmission of data between the mobile communication device and the secure element via a cable that connects from the secure element into the audio port of the mobile communication device.","Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the drawings.","Reference will now be made in detail to various embodiments, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present inventions. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present inventions may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, procedures, components, and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","100","110","120","120","110","120","110","110","120","110","124","110","125"]},"A secure element  is physically coupled to the mobile communication device . In some embodiments, the secure element  is externally attached to the mobile communication device . For example, the secure element  is adhesively affixed or mechanically secured to the housing of the mobile communication device . Alternatively, the secure element  is housed within the mobile communication device . The secure element  includes an antenna  for wireless communication. While the antenna  is shown as extending from the secure element  for visual clarity, the antenna  may be implemented internally within the secure element . Also, the secure element  may include more than one antenna . Communication occurs wirelessly between the secure element  and the mobile communication device  via respective antennas  and , over a direct wireless channel  between the mobile communication device  and the secure element . Thus, in some embodiments, the channel  does not pass through a network.","The secure element  also can communicate wirelessly with different point-of-sale (POS) or point-of-entry (POE) terminals - to -N via the antenna . In some embodiments, a POS terminal  receives a transaction request signal from the secure element  and transmits the transaction request signal to a transaction server  over a network . Alternatively, a POE terminal  receives an entry request signal from the secure element  and transmits the entry request signal to the transaction server  over the network . The network  is any suitable wired and\/or wireless network and may include, for example, a local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), virtual private network (VPN), the Internet, a metropolitan area network (MAN), or any combination of these or similar networks. The transaction server  verifies the request and forwards a verification signal to the management server  via the network . The management server  identifies the user corresponding to the verification signal and provides a response signal back to the mobile communication device , which the mobile communication device  receives via the antenna . The response signal thus is communicated back to the mobile communication device  using a communication channel that is different from the communication channel used to initiate the transaction. Alternatively, the response signal is communicated back to the mobile communication device  using communication channels from the management server  to the secure element  through the network  and POS terminal , and then from the secure element  to the mobile communication device  via the antennas  and .","In the example of an entry request signal received at a POE terminal , the entry request is verified by the POE terminal  or the transaction server , upon which the POE terminal  admits the user of the mobile communication device  to the corresponding venue or facility.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["110","123","122","124","125","126","122","120","1","120","123","129","120","2","120","122"]},"The processor  has the capability to perform not only the radio communication services necessary to allow for phone and data communications (e.g., via the transceivers  and\/or ), but also to execute various application programs (e.g., applications , ) that are stored in the memory . These application programs can receive inputs from the user via the display  and\/or keypad . In some embodiments, application programs stored in the memory  and run on the processor  are, for example, iPhone, Android, Windows Mobile, BREW, J2ME, or other mobile applications and can encompass a broad array of application types. Examples of these applications include e-commerce applications  (), games  (), enterprise applications  (), and multimedia applications  (). E-commerce applications can include ticketing applications; content, item and service purchase applications; and\/or payment management applications. One example of an e-commerce application that runs on the processor  and is stored in the memory  is an event application that provides event information and ticketing (e.g., for movies, concerts, sports, airplanes, busses, trains, etc). In some implementations, the processor  recognizes secure communications (e.g., as received via the transceiver  and\/or ) and transmits data from the secure communications to the secure element  for storage therein. The processor  also processes data received from the secure element .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["130","130","130","132","133","134","131","1","137","139","135","141","133","138","133","130","138","134","150","134","150","150","150","134","132","150","134","132","130","150","130","150"],"i":["a ","a","a","a "]},"In some embodiments, the secure element includes one or more additional transceivers  (e.g., radio, Bluetooth, and\/or WiFi transceivers) and associated antennas -. The one or more additional transceivers  are adapted to communicate wirelessly with the mobile communication device  (e.g., via the transceiver  and\/or  () in the mobile communication device ).","In some embodiments, the secure element includes a second microphone (), a second speaker (), a second analog to digital converter (), and a second battery as shown in . These components are adapted to communicate wirelessly with the mobile communication device  (e.g., via the microphone  and\/or speaker  () in the mobile communication device ).","The memory  stores one or more applications, including one or more e-commerce applications (e.g., applications , ), to be executed by the processor . Associated with respective e-commerce applications are respective application programming interfaces (APIs) for interacting with corresponding applications run on the processor  in the mobile communication device  () and with POS or POE terminals  (). Examples of such interactions are provided below with respect to .","In some embodiments, the secure element , while physically coupled to the mobile communication device , is not electrically coupled to the device  and does not receive power from the device . Instead, for example, the secure element receives RF power from a remote terminal (e.g., a POS or POE terminal ) resulting from induction when in proximity to the remote terminal and uses this power to operate the processor , memory , and transceivers  and . In this scenario, the secure element can be embedded in the cell phone case which is affixed to the mobile communication device ","In some embodiments, the secure element  is electronically coupled to the mobile communication devices and receives its power indirectly from the battery  within the mobile communication device. This is accomplished when the mobile wallet application which resides on the mobile communication sends an audio signal and thereby creating an electronic current over the cable  connected to the secure element which triggers induction and activates the secure element . In this scenario, if the secure element embedded in the cell phone case it can also be electrically coupled to the mobile communication device  through the analog cable  connecting the secure element to the mobile communication device analog port .","In the absence of another power source, the secure element thus communicates with the mobile communication device  only when receiving power from a remote terminal. In some embodiments, a secure element includes the components of the secure element and also includes a battery , as shown in . The battery can be charged using conventional methods such as an AC charger, solar charger, etc. Alternatively, the battery  is charged inductively (e.g., using a power harvester such as the power mat), which allows the battery  to be encased within the housing or body of the secure element . In some embodiments, the battery  is surrounded by or encased in RF shielding to prevent interference between the battery  and the transceiver  or transceiver , in the secure element . In other embodiments the antennae is encased in RF shielding. In an alternative embodiment a thin RF shield is placed between the battery  and the transceiver  or transceiver  to prevent interference. The secure element also may include one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)  to indicate a charge status of the battery .","In other embodiments, a secure element includes the components of the secure element and also includes power harvesting circuitry , as shown in . The power harvesting circuitry  harvests power from ambient radio-frequency (RF) signals from the mobile device battery or external sources around the mobile device and uses the harvested power to power the battery  other components of the secure element The power harvesting circuitry  can also harvest power generated during the near field communication interaction between the secure element and a remote POS or POE device. Thus, every time a user uses their NFC enabled mobile device with associated secure element for a NFC transaction, the power harvester utilizes the power to recharge the battery inside the secure element. In some embodiments, a secure element  includes both a battery  and power harvesting circuitry ; the power harvesting circuitry  is used to recharge the battery. In , the power bussing between the battery  () or power harvesting circuitry  () and other components is not shown, for visual clarity.","In some embodiments, the components of the secure element are implemented on a single integrated circuit (IC); this single integrated circuit is sometimes referred to as a smart chip. The smart chip and any other components (e.g., the battery , , or power harvesting circuitry , ) of the secure element  are encased within a card, referred to as a smart card, that serves as a housing of the secure element . In some embodiments, the smart card is adhesively affixed to the mobile communication device  and is referred to as a sticker.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 3D","FIG. 1","FIG. 3D","FIG. 3A"],"b":["130","130","130","110","130","130","130","702","130","702","150","110","134","136"],"i":["d","d ","d ","d ","d ","a "]},"In some embodiments, the transceivers  and\/or  in the smart chip  are low-power RF transceivers. Their low power output makes them susceptible to RF interference from neighboring devices, such as the mobile communication device  to which the smart card is attached. Thus, in some implementations, the smart card includes an RF shield to insulate the smart chip  from external interference. In one implementation, a lining of the smart chip  is composed of an RF absorbent material. In general, each phone has different levels of interference, and a material, size and thickness of the RF lining can determine an effectiveness of the RF shield. Alternatively, instead of incorporating an RF shield within the smart card , an RF shield can be placed between the smart card and the mobile communication device .","Given the abuse a mobile communication device  can take, smart cards that are attached externally to a mobile communication device are designed to withstand some abuse. In some embodiments, the smart card includes a ruggedized shell  that encases the smart chip . In some implementations, the shell  is formed of a composite plastic or polymer. The shell  can be hard (and substantially inflexible) or soft (and pliable). In some implementations, the shell  includes a protective membrane for the smart chip  which prevents damage to internal circuitry of the smart chip , a surface to adhere to an RF lining and\/or the mobile communication device  with appropriate adhesive, and a surface that faces outward when the smart card is attached to the mobile communication device , on which to print branding and advertising. Types of adhesives that can be used to affix the smart card to the mobile communication device  include, for example, paper glue, super glue, adhesive polymers, and the like. In one implementation, the shell  has a maximum width (or diameter) of 25 mm, and has a maximum thickness (or depth) of 5 mm.","In some embodiments the shell can include a small screen  to show images stored in the secure element memory . The display  is depicted in FIG. CC. It is mounted to a controller board and displays images that are stored in the secure element memory . The mini screen  may be based on a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD). LCD can be a passive monochrome display such as a Super-Twisted Nematic display (STN), a passive color Super-Twisted Nematic display (CSTN), or an active color Twisted Nematic (TN). The LCD's vary in terms of power consumption, image quality, and response time. For example, while an STN requires less power than the TN, it has lower image quality and slower response time.","In a preferred embodiment, the screen  is based on a an Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) which converts electricity to light. It does not require power when its inactive which makes it great for the secure element when it's not in use. Therefore, the screen  may not display any image when the secure element is not in use or in passive mode. Also, when it does use power, it uses power more efficiently than LCD. In fact, an OLED may only utilize 60-80% of the power of an LCD.","The images can be preinstalled in the memory, downloaded directly to the secure element  from a remote server, or downloaded to the mobile device and then transferred to the secure element memory . The images can be one or more logos representing financial institutions (e.g. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Bank Of America, Citbank, etc) that have payment credentials stored in the secure element. Thus, the images serve as a branding opportunity for financial institutions. The images can change automatically based on which payment credential is active at any given time. For example, if the user elects to use their American Express card, the image will change automatically to be the American Express logo. The image will change if the user elects to use a different payment method. The user uses the mobile wallet to select which payment card they want to use. Upon doing so, using techniques described in previous patents referenced herein, the mobile wallet sends a notification to the secure element controller which executes the appropriate secure element application to change the status of the appropriate secure element payment application to active as well as changes the status of the corresponding image to active","The images can be treated as advertisements and so the advertiser who pays for placement for a given time period, geographic location based on the users GPS coordinates, Advertisers can bid on placement of images on the secure element screen . The highest bidder will be able to display the image of their choice on the screen .","Users may elect to display a generic image that has no branding, Alternative, they may elect to display an image of their favorite sports team, celebrity, alumni, children, etc. The mobile wallet enables a user to select which image they want to display on the screen . The user can also purchase an image from a remote server and download it to the mobile device which then transfers it to the secure element memory for display on the screen . If a user does not select an image and there are no advertisements, the secure element displays a default image on the screen . If the secure element is embedded in a cell phone case, the image is displayed through the case if the cell phone case is clear or through a window\/opening in the cell phone case.","The display  may show 1 or more images and size them appropriately. For example, if there is only 1 image, it will be displayed in the center of the screen. In another example if there are 2 images, they may be positioned side by side next to each other or stacked vertically on top of each other. The API in the secure element will determine how to dynamically rotate the images and\/resize them to fit the screen.","In some embodiments, instead of being externally attached to the mobile communication device , a secure element  is physically coupled to the mobile communication device  by being disposed internally within a body of the mobile communication device . For example, as shown in  in accordance with some embodiments, the mobile communication device  includes a slot  into which a secure element is inserted. The secure element is an example of a secure element , or (). Even though the secure element is physically housed within the slot , the secure element and the mobile communication device  still communicate wirelessly with each other. Accordingly, in some implementations the slot  only provides for physical insertion and mechanical connection of the secure element to the body of the mobile communication device , and does not electrically couple the secure element to the mobile communication device .","Attention is now directed to methods of communication between various elements of the system  (), including the mobile communication device  and the secure element .  illustrate examples of transactions involving the mobile communication device , the secure element , and other elements of the system .","Various operations shown in , including operations  (),  (),  (), and  (), involving sending messages from the secure element  to the mobile communication device .  is a flow diagram illustrating a method  of installing a secure element  in accordance with some embodiments. In the method , an application (e.g., an application , such as an e-commerce application , ) is installed () on the mobile communication device  by storing the application in the memory  (). The application is launched (), thus initiating execution of the application by the processor  (). The user of the application registers () the application. In response to an instruction to register the application, the application transmits to the management server  () the phone number and electronic serial number (ESN) of the mobile communication device , along with an identifier of the application and\/or user information. This information is transmitted, for example, in one or more packets addressed to the management server , as created by the processor  and transmitted via the transceiver  or  (). The management server  receives and stores () this information. In some embodiments, the management server  also assigns a sampling rate for the secure element analog to digital converter  and digital to analog converter in order to optimize performance, memory limitations, etc. . This sampling rate is downloaded directly to the secure element  or downloaded to the mobile device which then transfers it to the secure element . The user orders () a secure element . The order is placed, for example, using the application. The management server  stores () an identifier of the secure element  to be provided to the user. For example, the management server  stores () a serial number of a smart chip  () in a smart card to be provided to the user. Alternatively, the user obtains the secure element  and enters a code printed on the secure element  into the application, which transmits the code to the management server , where it is stored. The management server  uses the registration information to look up information about the mobile device (e.g., microphone width).","Upon receiving the secure element , the user attaches () the secure element  to the mobile communication device . The secure element  should be placed so that the cable  connected to the secure element  is closest to the edge of the device  and facing in the direction of the audio port  of the mobile communication device  for optimal performance. For example, the user affixes a smart card (FIG. D) to the mobile communication device . In another example, the user inserts a secure element () into a slot  in the mobile communication device . If the secure element  includes a battery  (), the battery , and thus the secure element , is charged (). If the secure element is embedded into the cell phone case, the user affixes the cell phone case to the mobile communication device . After the secure element  has been installed in accordance with the method , the secure element  is activated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 2"],"b":["420","130","420","123","422","180","130","110","180","424","110","110","425","133","147","110","426","130","420","430","110","110","432","434"]},"Once the secure element  has been activated and its activation confirmed in accordance with the method , the secure element  may be used for purchases at terminals such as a POS or POE terminal  ().  is a flow diagram illustrating a method  of using a secure element  for a purchase in accordance with some embodiments.","In the method , the user instructs an application running on the processor  () of the mobile communication device  to load () value (e.g., money or credits) onto the secure element . An application (or corresponding API) running on the processor  () updates () the stored value of the secure element  by the amount specified in the message. The application creates a digital message, specifying the value to be loaded onto the secure element , converts it to an analog sound wave at 300 MHz using ADC  (or the appropriate sampling rate to ensure that there is sufficient memory available to store the data in the secure element memory ) () and transmits () the sound wave using the analog cable  to the secure element . The secure element  receives () the sound waves via the analog cable  (), converts it to digital using ADC , and displays the data to the user in the mobile wallet. In some embodiments, the secure element  transmits a confirmation message (not shown) to the mobile communication device . If the mobile communication device  does not receive the confirmation message from the secure element , it retransmits the sound waves as described in operation .","To purchase an item or gain entry to a venue or facility, the user brings the mobile communication device  with its attached secure element  into proximity with a POS or POE terminal . The terminal  requests () the amount of purchase (or entry) from the secure element . The secure element  receives this request directly from the terminal  via the transceiver  (or alternatively, ). After authenticating the request, the secure element  debits its stored value by the requested amount and transmits () the requested amount to the terminal , which receives () the amount.","Leveraging the power that results from induction by holding the secure element  in proximity to the POS\/POE, an application (or corresponding API) running on the processor  () of the secure element  creates a digital message with transaction data for the purchase (e.g., the amount, the date and time, identification of the terminal , etc.), converts the digital message to analog using the DAC , and transmits the sound waves () by cable  () to the mobile communication device .","The mobile communication device  receives the sound waves. When it receives () the sound waves, it converts it to digital using DAC . It displays () the transaction data contained in the message to the user. The device  transmits () a copy of the transaction data to the management server  (not shown in ), which stores the transaction data. The device also sends a confirmation that it received the messages to the secure element .","The method  of  thus illustrates a purchase performed using the device  and secure element . In some embodiments, data is provided to the secure element  for subsequent use or reference in a transaction such as the purchase of the method .  is a flow diagram illustrating a method  of providing data to a secure element  in accordance with some embodiments.","In the method , the management server  sends () data to the mobile communication device , which receives () the data. In some embodiments, the data is e-commerce data (e.g., a ticket, such as a ticket for a movie, concert, sporting event, airplane, bus, train, etc; a new value for a stored value card, credit card, or debit card; a coupon; or an advertisement). If the data includes a coupon, the coupon may include a merchant ID, promotion code, date of coupon delivery, time of coupon delivery, GPS coordinates associated with coupon delivery, etc. Other examples of the data include, but are not limited to, locations of smart posters; a code to unlock a door, computer, or vehicle; a code to start a vehicle, start a copy machine, withdraw funds from an ATM, or release medical records to a specific person or device; a list of authorized cell phone numbers, IMEI numbers, and\/or serial numbers associated with secure elements for peer-to-peer funds transfer, or an instruction to disable the secure element  if the mobile device  has been reported as lost or stolen. The device  receives the data, for example, over a cellular network, via the transceiver , or over an Internet connection, via the transceiver . Instead of immediately forwarding the received data to the secure element , an API in the device  first transmits () a low voltage signal over the cable  to the secure element  to activate the secure element .","The secure element  receives the signal over the cable  and is activated  () and, in response, exits sleep mode. The processor  () creates a message (e.g., sound wave) confirming that the device has exited sleep mode and thus woken up. The message is transmitted () via the cable .","The mobile communication device  receives the sound wave via the cable  (). In response, the processor  () creates () sound wave containing the data received in the operation . The sound waves are transmitted to the secure element  via the cable  ().","The secure element  is unlocked () and then receives () the sound wave containing the data via the cable (), converts the sound wave from analog to a digital message using ADC  ().","Using an application (e.g., an e-commerce application) or corresponding API running on the processor  (), the secure element  performs () a task associated with the received data. For example, the data are stored in the memory . If the data contain an instruction to disable the secure element , the secure element  disables itself, thus preventing the secure element from being able to interact with a remote terminal (e.g., a POS or POE terminal ). If the data contain a ticket (e.g., for a movie, concert, sports, airplane, bus, train, etc.) or coupon, the secure element  stores the ticket or coupon in the memory  which can be subsequently redeemed at a POS or POE terminal , even if the mobile communication device  does not have network access and thus is offline. If the data contain instructions to increase or decrease the value of a stored value account, debit card, or credit card, the value as stored in the memory  is increased or decreased accordingly. If the data contain updates to information about a financial account (e.g. expiration date, billing address, etc), the information is updated in the memory . If the data include one or more user-defined payment limits, an e-commerce application on the secure element  uses the payment limits to prevent transactions above the limits or to require entry of a PIN code to authorize transactions above the limits. If the data include a list of authorized cell phone numbers, IMEI numbers, and\/or serial numbers associated with secure elements that are authorized for peer-to-peer transactions (e.g., funds transfers), the secure element  stores the list in the memory  and subsequently uses the list to perform peer-to-peer transactions with other secure-element-equipped mobile communications devices that are placed in proximity to the device . If the data include a access code (e.g., to provide access to a building, office, apartment, room, vehicle, safety deposit box, etc.), the secure element  stores the access code in the memory  and subsequently provides the access code to a POE terminal  to request access. If the data includes a code to operate an apparatus (e.g., a vehicle or electronic appliance such as a computer, copy machine, washing machine, ATM machine etc), the secure element  stores the code in the memory  and subsequently provides the code to a remote terminal associated with the apparatus to initiate use of the apparatus. If the data includes a code to provide access to computerized records (e.g., medical records), the secure element  stores the code in the memory  and subsequently provides the code to a computer to request access to the records. If the data is an image, the image is displayed on the miniature screen .","The secure element performs any housekeeping tasks () including checking the available memory capacity. If the memory capacity is less than 50%, the API will delete other ecommerce data (i.e. tickets, coupons, etc) with status equal to redeemed, expired, etc. The secure element creates and transmits () a message (i.e. sound wave) to the mobile communication device  confirming that the task has been performed. The device  receives () sound waves via the cable  () and forwards () the confirmation to the management server , which updates () its records accordingly",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4D","FIG. 5"],"b":["110","130","110","130","110","500","110","130"]},"The method  is performed at a system that includes a mobile communication device  and a secure element  physically coupled to the mobile communication device . The mobile communication device  includes a first wireless transceiver (e.g., the transceiver , ), first processor (e.g., the processor , ), first memory (e.g., the memory , ), first speaker (e.g., the speaker , ), first microphone (e.g., the microphone , ), first Analog to Digital Converter ADC (e.g., the ADC , ), and first audio port (e.g. The audio port , ). In some embodiments, the mobile communication device  includes a plurality of transceivers (e.g., the transceivers  and , ). The secure element  includes a second wireless transceiver (e.g., the transceiver  or , ), second processor (e.g., the processor , ), second memory (e.g., the memory , ), second Analog to Digital Converter ADC (e.g., the ADC , ), second Digital to Analog Converter DAC (e.g., the ADC , ), and cable (e.g. The cable , ). In some embodiments, the secure element  includes a plurality of transceivers (e.g., the transceivers  and , ).","Examples of data transmitted in the operation  include the data transmitted in the operations  (),  (),  (), and  ()","In some embodiments, the sound wave has instructions including () a command to disable an application (e.g., an application , such as an e-commerce application) stored in the second memory (e.g., as described with respect to the operation , ). In response, the application is disabled () in the secure element  (e.g., in the operation , ).","The secure element  receives sound waves via the cable (e.g., , ). In some embodiments, prior to the operation , the secure element is unlocked using methods described in previous patents reference herein. The DAC  converts digital signal to an analog sound wave using the recommended frequency stored in memory in the device  with sigma delta conversion.","If the secure element is successfully unlocked, an application\/API in the secure element formulates a message to the device  that the message has been received and is authentic. The DAC converts the message from digital to analog at 300 Mhz (or whatever sampling rate to keep the storage below the available secure element memory ) using sigma-delta and transmits it to the device .","If the secure element is not successfully unlocked, the application\/API in the secure element creates an encrypts a message with the mobile device  digit number or wallet ID, transaction number, date, time, etc The ADC  converts the message from digital to analog at 300 Mhz (or whatever sampling rate to keep the storage below the available secure element memory ) using sigma-delta and transmits it to the device . The device  receives the signal via the cable , converts it to digital, stores it in memory The API also displays a message to the user to contact the help desk and\/or customer care center associated with the service provider. If the secure element  does not acknowledge the receipt of the first message, the device  will resend the message a predetermined number of times until it receives an acknowledgement. If it does not receive an acknowledgment, the secure element  will compose a message with the date, time, and transaction number, and error code\/description. When it has connectivity with the device , it will transmit this message to the device  which will send a copy to the management server.","In some embodiments, if the secure element processor is asleep or not in active mode prior to data transmission, an API in the device  formulates a packet with a message for the secure element  to activate the processor, sends a low voltage signal () over the cable  to the secure element to activate the secure element, and sends the packet to the receiver  or .","In an alternative embodiment, the user can \u201cwake up\u201d the secure element by holding it in proximity to any NFC enabled deice that is in active mode such as a computer, laptop, electronic notebook, monitor, laptop, key ring, watch, business card.","In some embodiments, the sound waves include () data (e.g., e-commerce data). Examples of data included in the sound waves include those data described with respect to operations  and  in the method  (). An application stored in the second memory is executed () on the second processor in the secure element  to process the data (e.g., as in the operation , ). The message confirms () that the application processed the data (e.g., as in the operation , ).","A message is non-wirelessly transmitted () over the cable  from the secure element  to the mobile communication device , using sound waves. The sound waves are transferred at 10 Mhz for example.","Examples of messages transmitted in the operation  include the messages transmitted in the operations  (),  (),  (), and  ().","In some embodiments, the message confirms () that the secure element received the sound wave","In some embodiments, prior to the operation , the secure element  may need to be unlocked prior to storing artifacts in the secure element memory or executing programs running in the secure element.","If the mobile wallet application on the mobile device  is already open, the mobile communication device receives the analog sound wave from the secure element over the cable . The ADC  converts the analog signal to digital. The digital message is stored in memory.","If the message is authentic, API formulates a message to the secure element  that the message has been received. The DAC converts the message from digital to analog at 300 Mhz (or the appropriate sampling rate to ensure the encoded information can be stored in the secure element memory based on the available secure element memory) using sigma-delta and transmits it to the secure element . The API then performs any necessary action on the ecommerce data such as deleting relevant commerce data (e.g. deletes ticket or coupon if ticket or coupon was transferred to the device ). API in the secure element  checks the available memory capacity. If the memory capacity is less than 50%, the API will delete other ecommerce data with status equal to redeemed, expired. An API in the secure element creates a message confirming performance of these tasks. The ADC  converts digital message to sound at 300 Mhz (or whatever sampling rate will keep the storage below the available memory in the secure element memory) using sigma-delta, and transmits it to the device . After receiving an acknowledgement back from the device , the API then sets the switch to the internal battery  to \u201csleep mode\u201d so as to minimize interference between the internal battery  and battery associated with a POS\/POE during near field communication induction.","If the wallet API in the device  is not activated or open, the user will have to open it. Once the user selects an action to perform (e.g. view account balance and receipt data), the wallet API in the device will formulate a request for the appropriate action (e.g. get data for the selected account), send a low power signal to the secure element  over the cable  which activates the secure element, and send the request over the cable using sound waves to the secure element . After receiving the signal the API in the secure element  will formulate the message with the ecommerce data, convert it to sound waves using ADC , encrypt it, and transmit it over the cable  to the mobile communication device . If the wallet API on the device  has not received the request in the time in a certain amount of pre-determined time, the wallet API in the mobile communication device  will send another request to the secure element . If the requests and data transmission are successful, an API in the secure element  will turn off processor inside the secure element.","If the secure element  does not receive acknowledgment of its original message, it will resend the request a predetermined number of times. If it does not receive an acknowledgment, the secure element  creates a message with the secure element serial number, date, time, error message, etc), stores the message until it can be transmitted to the device  which sends a copy to the management server .","In some embodiments, the message provides transaction data (e.g., as in the operation , ). The transaction data are associated with an e-commerce or other transaction. For example, the message provides a receipt from an e-commerce transaction; the receipt includes, for example, a transaction number, transaction amount, transaction date, transaction time, merchant ID, merchant name, product id, product name, location of transaction\/merchant, and\/or cashier ID. In another example, the message provides an indication of redemption of an electronic coupon. Other examples of transaction data include date, time, amount, and identifier of other secure element from a peer-to-peer funds transfer resulting from holding 2 secure elements in close proximity; a virtual hotel key if the customer checks into a hotel; date, time, and GPS locations associated with unlocking the door of a vehicle, office, home, apartment, or other building; date, time, and GPS location of receiving a coupon from a smart poster or merchant as well as coupon details; date, time, location, physician name, and key information from a doctor visit, medical exam, medical tests, hospital visit; date, time, GPS location of ATM machine, amount of withdrawal, etc are described with respect to operations - in the method  ().","The mobile communication device  receives the message via the first transceiver (e.g., transceiver , ), or alternatively via another transceiver distinct from the first transceiver (e.g., transceiver , ). In some embodiments, the device  receives messages from a cellular service provider (e.g., forward by the cellular service provider but initially transmitted by another party) at a first port, and receives the message from the secure element  at a second port distinct from the first port.","In some embodiments, the secure element  receives power from a remote terminal (e.g., a POS or POE terminal , ). For example, the secure element  receives power via RF signals transmitted by the remote terminal. The wireless transmission of the message in operation  is performed using the power received from the remote terminal when the secure element  is in proximity to the remote terminal. In other embodiments, the secure element  harvests power from ambient RF signals (e.g., using power harvesting circuitry , ) from the battery located in the mobile device, external sources, or even the power created during near field communication induction. The wireless transmission of the message in operation  is performed using the harvested power. In still other embodiments, the secure element  includes a battery (e.g., a battery , ), and the wireless transmission of the message in operation  is performed using power from the battery. For example, the secure element  determines whether power is available from a nearby remote terminal. If power is not available from the nearby terminal, the message is wirelessly transmitted using power from the battery.","The method  thus allows for non-wireless bi-directional communication between a mobile communication device  and associated secure element  using a cable  to send sound wave in both directions. While the method  includes a number of operations that appear to occur in a specific order, it should be apparent that the method  can include more or fewer operations, which can be executed serially or in parallel. An order of two or more operations may be changed and two or more operations may be combined into a single operation. For example, the order of the operations  and  may be reversed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"],"b":["110","110","123","614","126","612","610","610","612","124","125","614","122","129","126","126","126","126","123","126","123","126"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["an operating system  that includes procedures for handling various basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks;","a communication module  that is used for communicating with other devices (e.g., with the secure element  and the management server , ) via the communications interface ; and","applications , including one or more e-commerce applications  (e.g., ticketing applications; content, item and service purchase applications; and\/or payment management applications), games , enterprise applications , and\/or multimedia applications ."]}}}},"The communication module  also stores an identifier  of a secure element  that is physically coupled to the mobile communication device , for use in transmitting packets to the secure element , and the phone number  of the mobile communication device , for use in receiving messages from the secure element .","Associated with the e-commerce application(s)  are corresponding APIs for processing data received from other devices (e.g., the secure element  and the management server , ) and data to be transmitted to the other devices. Similar APIs may be associated with the other applications , , and\/or .","In some embodiments, the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of the memory  includes instructions for performing all or a portion of the operations shown in the \u201cmobile device communication \u201d columns in  (except for the attaching operation , ). Likewise, the memory  includes instructions for performing all or a portion of the operations - in the method  ().","Each of the above identified elements in  may be stored in one or more of the previously mentioned memory devices in the memory . Each of the above identified modules corresponds to a set of instructions for performing functions described above. The above identified modules or programs (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments, the memory  may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, the memory  may store additional modules and data structures not described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 3A-3E"],"b":["130","130","132","714","133","710","710","714","134","136","133","133","133","133","132","133","132","133"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0004","list-style":"none"},"li":["an operating system  that includes procedures for handling various basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks;","a communication module  that is used for communicating with other devices (e.g., with the mobile communication device  and with POS and POE terminals , ) via the communications interface ; and","one or more applications  (e.g., e-commerce applications) and associated APIs ."]}}}},"The communication module  stores an identifier  of the secure element  (e.g., an identifier of the transceiver  or ), for use in receiving packets from the mobile communication device  to which the secure element  is physically coupled, and also stores the phone number  and identifier  of the mobile communication device , for use in transmitting messages to the mobile communication device .","In some embodiments, the memory  includes instructions for performing all of the operations shown in the \u201csecure element \u201d columns in  (except for the attaching operation  and charging operation , ). Likewise, the memory  includes instructions for performing all or a portion of the operations - in the method  ().","Each of the above identified elements in  may be stored in one or more of the previously mentioned components of the memory . Each of the above identified modules corresponds to a set of instructions for performing functions described above. The above identified modules or programs (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments, the memory  may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, the memory  may store additional modules and data structures not described above.","The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the inventions to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the inventions and their practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the inventions and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
