---
title: Dynamic work partitioning on heterogeneous processing devices
abstract: A method, system and article of manufacture for balancing a workload on heterogeneous processing devices. The method comprising accessing a memory storage of a processor of one type by a dequeuing entity associated with a processor of a different type, identifying a task from a plurality of tasks within the memory that can be processed by the processor of the different type, synchronizing a plurality of dequeuing entities capable of accessing the memory storage, and dequeuing the task form the memory storage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645854&OS=09645854&RS=09645854
owner: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
number: 09645854
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111102
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF EMBODIMENTS","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/423,465, filed on Dec. 15, 2010 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Field of the Invention","The present invention is generally directed to computer systems. More particularly, the present invention is directed to an architecture for unifying the computational components within a computer system.","Background Art","The desire to use a graphics processing unit (GPU) for general computation has become much more pronounced recently due to the GPU's exemplary performance per unit power and\/or cost. The computational capabilities for GPUs, generally, have grown at a rate exceeding that of the corresponding central processing unit (CPU) platforms. This growth, coupled with the explosion of the mobile computing market (e.g., notebooks, mobile smart phones, tablets, etc.) and its necessary supporting server\/enterprise systems, has been used to provide a specified quality of desired user experience. Consequently, the combined use of CPUs and GPUs for executing workloads with data parallel content is becoming a volume technology.","However, GPUs have traditionally operated in a constrained programming environment, available primarily for the acceleration of graphics. These constraints arose from the fact that GPUs did not have as rich a programming ecosystem as CPUs. Their use, therefore, has been mostly limited to 2D and 3D graphics and a few leading edge multimedia applications, which are already accustomed to dealing with graphics and video application programming interfaces(APIs).","With the advent of multi-vendor supported OpenCL\u2122 and DirectCompute\u00ae, standard APIs and supporting tools, the limitations of the GPUs in traditional applications has been extended beyond traditional graphics. Although OpenCL and DirectCompute are a promising start, there are many hurdles remaining to creating an environment and ecosystem that allows the combination of a CPU and a GPU to be used as fluidly as the CPU for most programming tasks.","Existing computing systems often include multiple processing devices. For example, some computing systems include both a CPU and a GPU on separate chips (e.g., the CPU might be located on a motherboard and the GPU might be located on a graphics card) or in a single chip package. Both of these arrangements, however, still include significant challenges associated with (i) separate memory systems, (ii) efficient scheduling, (iii) providing quality of service (QoS) guarantees between processes, (iv) programming model, and (v) compiling to multiple target instruction set architectures (ISAs)\u2014all while minimizing power consumption.","For example, the discrete chip arrangement forces system and software architects to utilize chip to chip interfaces for each processor to access memory. While these external interfaces (e.g., chip to chip) negatively affect memory latency and power consumption for cooperating heterogeneous processors, the separate memory systems (i.e., separate address spaces) and driver managed shared memory create overhead that becomes unacceptable for fine grain offload.","Although a CPU and a GPU traditionally performed different tasks, many types of workloads may be performed using a CPU or a GPU. When either CPU or GPU is free, the computing environment benefits if a workload can be redistributed between the processors.","Prior to processing, a workload is divided into many discrete tasks. Each task is assigned to a work queue associated with either a CPU or a GPU. Conventional computing environments, which include CPUs and GPUs, do not allow work redistribution to a processing device of a different type once a task is assigned to a CPU or a GPU for processing. Conventional systems allow CPUs to redistribute tasks to other CPUs, whereas the GPU does not have the functionality to redistribute work. This also hampers processing because CPUs may be busy while GPUs are free, and vice versa. The unbalanced processing results in inefficiencies and sub-optimal performance, particularly when a task can be processed on either processing device.","Therefore, what are needed are systems and methods where CPUs and GPUs are able to redistribute and balance tasks between themselves.","Although GPUs, accelerated processing units (APUs), and general purpose use of the graphics processing unit (GPGPU) are commonly used terms in this field, the expression \u201caccelerated processing device (APD)\u201d is considered to be a broader expression. For example, APD refers to any cooperating collection of hardware and\/or software that performs those functions and computations associated with accelerating graphics processing tasks, data parallel tasks, or nested data parallel tasks in an accelerated manner compared to conventional CPUs, conventional GPUs, software and\/or combinations thereof.","Embodiments of the invention, in certain circumstances, include a method, system, and article of manufacture for balancing a workload on heterogeneous processing devices. The method comprises accessing a memory storage of a processor of one type by a dequeuing entity associated with a processor of a different type, identifying a task from a plurality of tasks within the memory that can be processed by the processor of the different type, synchronizing a plurality of dequeuing entities capable of accessing the memory storage, and dequeuing the task faun the memory storage","Additional features and advantages of the invention, as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention, are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) based on the teachings contained herein.","The present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Generally, the drawing in which an element first appears is typically indicated by the leftmost digit(s) in the corresponding reference number.","In the detailed description that follows, references to \u201cone embodiment,\u201d \u201can embodiment,\u201d \u201can example embodiment,\u201d etc., indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature, structure, or characteristic, but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature, structure, or characteristic. Moreover, such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further, when a particular feature, structure, or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment, it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature, structure, or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.","The term \u201cembodiments of the invention\u201d does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature, advantage or mode of operation. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention, and well-known elements of the invention may not be described in detail or may be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention. In addition, the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. For example, as used herein, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincludes\u201d and\/or \u201cincluding,\u201d when used herein, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["100","102","104","102","100","102","104","104","102","102","104"]},"In one example, system  also includes a memory , an operating system , and a communication infrastructure . The operating system  and the communication infrastructure  are discussed in greater detail below.","The system  also includes a kernel mode driver (KMD) , a software scheduler (SWS) , and a memory management unit , such as input\/output memory management unit (IOMMU). Components of system  can be implemented as hardware, firmware, software, or any combination thereof. A person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that system  may include one or more software, hardware, and firmware components in addition to, or different from, that shown in the embodiment shown in .","In one example, a driver, such as KMD , typically communicates with a device through a computer bus or communications subsystem to which the hardware connects. When a calling program invokes a routine in the driver, the driver issues commands to the device. Once the device sends data back to the driver, the driver may invoke routines in the original calling program. In one example, drivers are hardware-dependent and operating-system-specific. They usually provide the interrupt handling required for any necessary asynchronous time-dependent hardware interface.","Device drivers, particularly on modern Microsoft Windows\u00ae platforms, can run in kernel-mode (Ring ) or in user-mode (Ring ). The primary benefit of running a driver in user mode is improved stability, since a poorly written user mode device driver cannot crash the system by overwriting kernel memory. On the other hand, user\/kernel-mode transitions usually impose a considerable performance overhead, thereby prohibiting user mode-drivers for low latency and high throughput requirements. Kernel space can be accessed by user module only through the use of system calls. End user programs like the UNIX shell or other GUI based applications are part of the user space. These applications interact with hardware through kernel supported functions.","CPU  can include (not shown) one or more of a control processor, field programmable gate array (FPGA), application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or digital signal processor (DSP). CPU , for example, executes the control logic, including the operating system , KMD , SWS , and applications , that control the operation of computing system . In this illustrative embodiment, CPU , according to one embodiment, initiates and controls the execution of applications  by, for example, distributing the processing associated with that application across the CPU  and other processing resources, such as the APD .","APD , among other things, executes commands and programs for selected functions, such as graphics operations and other operations that may be, for example, particularly suited for parallel processing. In general, APD  can be frequently used for executing graphics pipeline operations, such as pixel operations, geometric computations, and rendering an image to a display. In various embodiments of the present invention, APD  can also execute compute processing operations (e.g., those operations unrelated to graphics such as, for example, video operations, physics simulations, computational fluid dynamics, etc.), based on commands or instructions received from CPU .","For example, commands can be considered as special instructions that are not typically defined in the instruction set architecture (ISA). A command may be executed by a special processor such a dispatch processor, command processor, or network controller. On the other hand, instructions can be considered, for example, a single operation of a processor within a computer architecture. In one example, when using two sets of ISAs, some instructions are used to execute x86 programs and some instructions are used to execute kernels on an APD unit.","In an illustrative embodiment, CPU  transmits selected commands to APD . These selected commands can include graphics commands and other commands amenable to parallel execution. These selected commands, that can also include compute processing commands, can be executed substantially independently from CPU .","APD  can include its own compute units (not shown), such as, but not limited to, one or more SIMD processing cores. As referred to herein, a SIMD is a pipeline, or programming model, where a kernel is executed concurrently on multiple processing elements each with its own data and a shared program counter. All processing elements execute an identical set of instructions. The use of predication enables work-items to participate or not for each issued command.","In one example, each APD  compute unit can include one or more scalar and\/or vector floating-point units and\/or arithmetic and logic units (ALUs). The APD compute unit can also include special purpose processing units (not shown), such as inverse-square root units and sine\/cosine units. In one example, the APD compute units are referred to herein collectively as shader core .","Having one or more SIMDs, in general, makes APD  ideally suited for execution of data-parallel tasks such as those that are common in graphics processing.","Some graphics pipeline operations, such as pixel processing, and other parallel computation operations, can require that the same command stream or compute kernel be performed on streams or collections of input data elements. Respective instantiations of the same compute kernel can be executed concurrently on multiple compute units in shader core  in order to process such data elements in parallel. As referred to herein, for example, a compute kernel is a function containing instructions declared in a program and executed on APD. This function is also referred to as a kernel, a shader, a shader program, or a program.","In one illustrative embodiment, each compute unit (e.g., SIMD processing core) can execute a respective instantiation of a particular work-item to process incoming data. A work-item is one of a collection of parallel executions of a kernel invoked on a device by a command. A work-item can be executed by one or more processing elements as part of a work-group executing on an APD compute unit.","A work-item is distinguished from other executions within the collection by its global ID and local ID. In one example, a subset of work-items in a workgroup that execute simultaneously together on a SIMD can be referred to as a wavefront . The width of a wavefront is a characteristic of the hardware of the compute unit (e.g., SIMD processing core). As referred to herein, a workgroup is a collection of related work-items that execute on a single compute unit. The work-items in the group execute the same kernel and share local memory and work-group barriers.","In the exemplary embodiment, all wavefronts from a workgroup are processed on the same SIMD processing core. Instructions across a wavefront are issued one at a time, and when all work-items follow the same control flow, each work-item executes the same program. Wavefronts can also be referred to as warps, vectors, or threads.","An execution mask and work-item predication are used to enable divergent control flow within a wavefront, where each individual work-item can actually take a unique code path through the kernel. Partially populated wavefronts can be processed when a full set of work-items is not available at wavefront start time. For example, shader core  can simultaneously execute a predetermined number of wavefronts , each wavefront  comprising a multiple work-items.","Within the system , APD  includes its own memory, such as graphics memory  (although memory  is not limited to graphics only use). Graphics memory  provides a local memory for use during computations in APD . Individual compute units (not shown) within shader core  can have their own local data store (not shown). In one embodiment, APD  includes access to local graphics memory , as well as access to the memory . In another embodiment, APD  can include access to dynamic random access memory (DRAM) or other such memories (not shown) attached directly to the APD  and separately from memory .","In the example shown, APD  also includes one or \u201cn\u201d number of command processors (CPs) . CP  controls the processing within APD . CP  also retrieves commands to be executed from command buffers  in memory  and coordinates the execution of those commands on APD .","In one example, CPU  inputs commands based on applications  into appropriate command buffers . As referred to herein, an application is the combination of the program parts that will execute on the compute units within the CPU and APD.","A plurality of command buffers  can be maintained with each process scheduled for execution on the APD .","CP  can be implemented in hardware, firmware, or software, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, CP  is implemented as a reduced instruction set computer (RISC) engine with microcode for implementing logic including scheduling logic.","APD  also includes one or \u201cn\u201d number of dispatch controllers (DCs) . In the present application, the term dispatch refers to a command executed by a dispatch controller that uses the context state to initiate the start of the execution of a kernel for a set of workgroups on a set of compute units. DC  includes logic to initiate workgroups in the shader core . In some embodiments, DC  can be implemented as part of CP .","System  also includes a hardware scheduler (HWS)  for selecting a process from a run list  for execution on APD . HWS  can select processes from run list  using round robin methodology, priority level, or based on other scheduling policies. The priority level, for example, can be dynamically determined. HWS  can also include functionality to manage the run list , for example, by adding new processes and by deleting existing processes from run-list . The run list management logic of HWS  is sometimes referred to as a run list controller (RLC).","In various embodiments of the present invention, when HWS  initiates the execution of a process from RLC , CP  begins retrieving and executing commands from the corresponding command buffer . In some instances, CP can generate one or more commands to be executed within APD , which correspond with commands received from CPU . In one embodiment, CP , together with other components, implements a prioritizing and scheduling of commands on APD  in a manner that improves or maximizes the utilization of the resources of APD  and\/or system .","APD  can have access to, or may include, an interrupt generator . Interrupt generator  can be configured by APD  to interrupt the operating system  when interrupt events, such as page faults, are encountered by APD . For example, APD  can rely on interrupt generation logic within IOMMU  to create the page fault interrupts noted above.","APD  can also include preemption and context switch logic  for preempting a process currently running within shader core . Context switch logic , for example, includes functionality to stop the process and save its current state (e.g., shader core  state, and CP  state).","As referred to herein, the term state can include an initial state, an intermediate state, and\/or a final state. An initial state is a starting point for a machine to process an input data set according to a programming order to create an output set of data. There is an intermediate state, for example, that needs to be stored at several points to enable the processing to make forward progress. This intermediate state is sometimes stored to allow a continuation of execution at a later time when interrupted by some other process. There is also final state that can be recorded as part of the output data set.","Preemption and context switch logic  can also include logic to context switch another process into the APD . The functionality to context switch another process into running on the APD  may include instantiating the process, for example, through the CP  and DC  to run on APD , restoring any previously saved state for that process, and starting its execution.","Memory  can include non-persistent memory such as DRAM (not shown). Memory  can store, e.g., processing logic instructions, constant values, and variable values during execution of portions of applications or other processing logic. For example, in one embodiment, parts of control logic to perform one or more operations on CPU  can reside within memory  during execution of the respective portions of the operation by CPU .","During execution, respective applications, operating system functions, processing logic commands, and system software can reside in memory . Control logic commands fundamental to operating system  will generally reside in memory  during execution. Other software commands, including, for example, KMD  and software scheduler  can also reside in memory  during execution of system .","In this example, memory  includes command buffers  that are used by CPU  to send commands to APD . Memory  also contains process lists and process information (e.g., active list  and process control blocks ). These lists, as well as the information, are used by scheduling software executing on CPU  to communicate scheduling information to APD  and\/or related scheduling hardware. Access to memory  can be managed by a memory controller , which is coupled to memory . For example, requests from CPU , or from other devices, for reading from or for writing to memory  are managed by the memory controller .","Referring back to other aspects of system , IOMMU  is a multi-context memory management unit.","As used herein, context can be considered the environment within which the kernels execute and the domain in which synchronization and memory management is defined. The context includes a set of devices, the memory accessible to those devices, the corresponding memory properties and one or more command-queues used to schedule execution of a kernel(s) or operations on memory objects.","Referring back to the example shown in , IOMMU  includes logic to perform virtual to physical address translation for memory page access for devices including APD . IOMMU  may also include logic to generate interrupts, for example, when a page access by a device such as APD  results in a page fault. IOMMU  may also include, or have access to, a translation lookaside buffer (TLB) . TLB , as an example, can be implemented in a content addressable memory (CAM) to accelerate translation of logical (i.e., virtual) memory addresses to physical memory addresses for requests made by APD  for data in memory .","In the example shown, communication infrastructure  interconnects the components of system  as needed. Communication infrastructure  can include (not shown) one or more of a peripheral component interconnect (PCI) bus, extended PCI (PCI-E) bus, advanced microcontroller bus architecture (AMBA) bus, accelerated graphics port (AGP), or other such communication infrastructure. Communications infrastructure  can also include an Ethernet, or similar network, or any suitable physical communications infrastructure that satisfies an application's data transfer rate requirements. Communication infrastructure  includes the functionality to interconnect components including components of computing system .","In this example, operating system  includes functionality to manage the hardware components of system  and to provide common services. In various embodiments, operating system  can execute on CPU  and provide common services. These common services can include, for example, scheduling applications for execution within CPU , fault management, interrupt service, as well as processing the input and output of other applications.","In some embodiments, based on interrupts generated by an interrupt controller, such as interrupt controller , operating system  invokes an appropriate interrupt handling routine. For example, upon detecting a page fault interrupt, operating system  may invoke an interrupt handler to initiate loading of the relevant page into memory  and to update corresponding page tables.","Operating system  may also include functionality to protect system  by ensuring that access to hardware components is mediated through operating system managed kernel functionality. In effect, operating system  ensures that applications, such as applications , run on CPU  in user space. Operating system  also ensures that applications  invoke kernel functionality provided by the operating system to access hardware and\/or input\/output functionality.","By way of example, applications  include various programs or commands to perform user computations that are also executed on CPU . CPU  can seamlessly send selected commands for processing on the APD .","In one example, KMD  implements an application program interface (API) through which CPU , or applications executing on CPU  or other logic, can invoke APD  functionality. For example, KMD  can enqueue commands from CPU  to command buffers  from which APD  will subsequently retrieve the commands. Additionally, KMD  can, together with SWS , perform scheduling of processes to be executed on APD . SWS , for example, can include logic to maintain a prioritized list of processes to be executed on the APD.","In other embodiments of the present invention, applications executing on CPU  can entirely bypass KMD  when enqueuing commands.","In some embodiments, SWS  maintains an active list  in memory  of processes to be executed on APD . SWS  also selects a subset of the processes in active list  to be managed by HWS  in the hardware. Information relevant for running each process on APD  is communicated from CPU  to APD  through process control blocks (PCB) .","Processing logic for applications, operating system, and system software can include commands specified in a programming language such as C and\/or in a hardware description language such as Verilog, RTL, or netlists, to enable ultimately configuring a manufacturing process through the generation of maskworks\/photomasks to generate a hardware device embodying aspects of the invention described herein.","A person of skill in the art will understand, upon reading this description, that computing system  can include more or fewer components than shown in . For example, computing system  can include one or more input interfaces, non-volatile storage, one or more output interfaces, network interfaces, and one or more displays or display interfaces.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["104","124","124","124","124","124","125","0","124","162","1","2","124","124","160","166","128"],"i":["a","b","c","a","b ","c"]},"In , graphics pipeline  can include a set of blocks, referred to herein as ordered pipeline . As an example, ordered pipeline  includes a vertex group translator (VGT) , a primitive assembler (PA) , a scan converter (SC) , and a shader-export, render-back unit (SX\/RB) . Each block within ordered pipeline  may represent a different stage of graphics processing within graphics pipeline . Ordered pipeline  can be a fixed function hardware pipeline.","Other implementations can be used that would also be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Although only a small amount of data may be provided as an input to graphics pipeline , this data will be amplified by the time it is provided as an output from graphics pipeline . Graphics pipeline  also includes DC  for counting through ranges within work-item groups received from CP pipeline . Compute work submitted through DC  is semi-synchronous with graphics pipeline .","Compute pipeline  includes shader DCs  and . Each of the DCs  and  is configured to count through compute ranges within work groups received from CP pipelines and ","The DCs , , and , illustrated in , receive the input ranges, break the ranges down into workgroups, and then forward the workgroups to shader core .","Since graphics pipeline  is generally a fixed function pipeline, it is difficult to save and restore its state, and as a result, the graphics pipeline  is difficult to context switch. Therefore, in most cases context switching, as discussed herein, does not pertain to context switching among graphics processes. An exception is for graphics work in shader core , which can be context switched.","After the processing of work within graphics pipeline  has been completed, the completed work is processed through a render back unit , which does depth and color calculations, and then writes its final results to memory .","Shader core  can be shared by graphics pipeline  and compute pipeline . Shader core  can be a general processor configured to run wavefronts.","In one example, all work within compute pipeline  is processed within shader core . Shader core  runs programmable software code and includes various forms of data, such as state data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","206","124","208","122","210","212","214"]},"CPU  includes one or more CPU cores  as described herein. Each CPU core  processes computer instructions and data in CPU .","Queue  is a segment of memory allocated from system memory . A queue operates according to the first-in, first-out (\u201cFIFO\u201d), principle. Namely, the workload that is first enqueued onto a queue is the workload that is first dequeued from a queue, Additionally, a person skilled in the art will appreciate that a discussion of a particular queue data structure is given by way of example and not limitation and that other memory storing data structures for may be used.","Queue  is a public queue. A public queue is accessible to processing devices such as CPU  and APD . Queue  stores multiple tasks  that are enqueued and dequeued onto queue  according to the FIFO principle. Tasks  are independent jobs, which include operating system instructions, applications instructions, images and data scheduled for processing on APD  or CPU . A job is divided into tasks  according to a \u201cgrain\u201d, where a grain represents a size of task . The size of the grain varies for tasks  scheduled for APD  and CPU  processors. For example, the size of the grain for tasks  processed on CPU  is generally smaller than the size of the grain for tasks  processed on APD .","Tasks  include a data structure which holds information instructions and\/or pointers to data which requires processing. For example, the data structure holding information for task  can be defined as MyTask structure. In a non-limiting example, MyTask structure can include the following parameters:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"struct MyTask {"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"MyPtr myCodePtr"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"myCPUCodePtr : pointer to code (x86 binary format)"]},{"entry":[{},"myAPDCodePtr :"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\/\/Pointer to code (shader binary format)"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"MyPtr myDataPtr :"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"myExecRange:"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\/\/Global grid dimensions"]},{"entry":[{},"\/\/Local grid dimensions"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"myArgSize"]},{"entry":[{},"myArgs {(variable size)}"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"MyNotification"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002\/\/Pointer to notification mechanism"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"MyAffinity"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\/\/processing preference"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"}"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"MyTask structure includes pointers to the compiled CPU code and APD microcode stored in system memory  or another memory device. In the example above, MyPtr myCodePtr defines pointers to microcode executed on CP  as myAPDCodePtr and to compiled source code executed on CPU  as myCPUCodePtr. myAPDCodePtr points to microcode that includes a function that shader cores  use to execute data in task . For example, if task  is executed on APD , APD  accesses a function whose address is stored in myAPDCodePtr. If task  is exectued on CPU , CPU  accesses a function whose address is stored in myCPUCodePtr. In an embodiment, myCodePtr can also point to an intermediate language representation that includes dependency information that becomes executable after an occurrence of a predetermined event.","In the example above, the MyTask structure can include a MyPtr myDataPtr. The myDataPtr is a pointer to a location of data in system memory  that task  requires to process. Also, myDataPtr includes parameters that include information associated with data in task . For example, a parameter myArgs includes a list of arguments, myArgSize includes the number of arguments, and myExecRange includes dimensions of the data grid.","In embodiments of the present invention, MyTask structure also includes a MyAffinity parameter. The value of MyAffinity determines the processing device that executes task . For example, the value of MyAffinity parameter can indicate a preference, a requirement, a hint, etc. for a processing device such as CPU  or APD .","A person skilled in the art will appreciate that a data structure, such as MyTask can include other parameters as well.","CPU dequeuing module  and CP  function as dequeuing entities. Dequeuing entities dequeue or remove tasks from queue  for processing on processing devices.","CPU dequeuing module  is a software module that accesses queue  and removes tasks  for processing on CPU . In an embodiment, CPU dequeuing module  removes tasks from queue  associated with APD  when CPU  requires tasks  to process. For example, when queue  associated with CPU  is empty, but queue  associated with APD  stores tasks  that require processing.","Typically, CPU dequeuing, module  retrieves tasks  using a FIFO principle. Prior to removing task(s) , CPU dequeuing module  accesses MyAffinity parameter to determine whether task  is suitable for processing on CPU . For example, CPU dequeuing module  dequeues task(s)  where MyAffinity parameter is not set to processing on APD  as a requirement. In another example, CPU dequeuing module  dequeues task(s)  where MyAffinity parameter is not set to processing on APD  as a preference. Typically, task(s)  that include mathematically complex operations that can be executed by parallel processors can have MyAffinity parameter set to APD  processing as a preference or a requirement.","In a multi CPU core  environment, CPU dequeuing module  corresponds to a particular CPU core .","CP  accesses queue  and removes tasks  for processing on APD . CP  is a hardware module that removes tasks  from queue  for processing on APD . Similarly to CPU dequeuing module , CP  can remove tasks  from queue  associated with CPU  when queue  associated with APD  is empty, but queue  associated with CPU  stores tasks  that require processing.","CP  retrieves tasks  according to FIFO principle. Prior to removing task(s) , CP  uses MyAffinity parameter to determine whether task  is suitable for processing on APD . For example, CP  dequeues task(s)  where MyAffinity parameter is not set to processing on CPU  as a requirement. In another example, CP  dequeues task(s)  where MyAffinity parameter is not set to processing on CPU  as a preference. Typically, task(s)  that include branch-like code can have MyAffinity parameter set to CPU  processing as a preference or a requirement.","After CP  removes tasks , it forwards task  to one or more shader pipe interpolators (SPIs) . SPI  prepares tasks  for processing on shader cores . In an embodiment, SPI  determines the number of working items and shader cores  that are required to process task .","Before CPU dequeuing module  and CP  remove tasks  from queue , they are synchronized. Synchronization ensures continuous and exclusive access to queue  when tasks  are removed. CPU synchronization module  synchronizes CPU dequeuing module  with queue  and APD  before CPU dequeuing module  removes tasks  from queue . CPU synchronization module  guarantees that CPU dequeuing module  has sole access to queue  when it attempts to remove tasks  for processing on CPU .","CPU synchronization module  uses an atomic operation to ensure CPU dequeuing module  has exclusive access to queue . A person skilled in the art will appreciate that an atomic operation prevents a process or a hardware device from reading from or writing to a memory location until another process or a hardware device accessing the memory location completes the access.","Prior to removing tasks  for processing on APD , semaphore block  synchronizes CP  with queue  and CPU . Semaphore block , also guarantees exclusive access to queue  for CP . In one embodiment, semaphore block  uses an atomic operation to ensure CP  has an exclusive access to queue . In another embodiment, semaphore block  uses event notification mechanism to guarantee exclusive access to queue . A person skilled in the art will appreciate that an event notification mechanism notifies a process or a hardware device that a particular memory location is being accessed by another process or a hardware device.","APD  and CPU  retrieve a different number of tasks  from queue . A person skilled in the art will appreciate that APD  retrieves more tasks  because APD  is capable of processing more tasks  in parallel. As a result, when CP  and CPU dequeuing module  retrieve tasks  from queue , the number of tasks  each dequeuing device removes from queue  depends on whether APD  or CPU  requested processing.","In a discrete processor environment, semaphore block  may not be able to directly synchronize queue  and requires additional components. , is a block diagram of a queuing system for redistributing workload in a discrete processing environment. In addition to components described herein, in a discrete system environment APD  includes an APD driver module  and an APD dequeuing module  to dequeue tasks  from queue . APD driver module  is a software module that controls the overall execution on APD . APD dequeuing module  is a software-based module which retrieves tasks  from queue .","When APD  requests work, semaphore block  communicates with APD driver module . APD driver module  communicates with the APD dequeuing module . APD dequeuing module  removes tasks  from queue  and submits tasks  to CP .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","202","102","104"]},"Although, each queue  can communicate with multiple CPUs  and APD , queue  can primarily store tasks for a particular CPU , a particular CPU core  or a particular APD .","CP  can remove tasks  from multiple queues  associated with CPU  and forward tasks  to APD  for processing as described herein. Similarly, CPU dequeuing module  can remove tasks  from multiple queues  associated with APD  for processing on CPU  as described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","124","204","202"]},"At operation , APD  requests tasks  that require processing.","At operation , CP  accesses queue .","At operation , CP  identifies task(s)  that require processing and can be processed on APD . For example, CP  identifies the value of MyAffinity parameter in task(s) . In an embodiment, CP  identifies MyAffinity parameter in tasks  that are scheduled to be dequeued from queue . If CP  identifies tasks(s) , the flowchart proceeds to operation . Otherwise, flowchart  ends.","At operation , semaphore block  synchronizes queue  and CPU synchronization module .","At operation , CP  dequeues task(s)  from queue .","At operation , CP  sends task(s)  to SPI .","At operation , SPI  determines the resources required for processing task(s)  on shader cores .","At operation , tasks  are processed on shader cores .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","210","204","202"]},"At operation , CPU  requests task(s)  from queue .","At operation , CPU dequeuing module  identifies task(s)  that require processing and can be processed on CPU . For example, CP  identifies the value in MyAffinity parameter in task(s) . In an embodiment, CP  identifies MyAffinity parameter in task(s)  that are scheduled to be dequeued from queue . If CPU dequeuing module  identifies tasks(s) , the flowchart proceeds to operation . Otherwise, the flowchart ends.","At operation , CPU synchronization module  synchronizes queue  and APD , so that only CPU dequeuing module  has access to queue .","At operation , CPU dequeuing module  removes tasks  from queue  as described herein and sends tasks  for processing on CPU .","At operation , CPU  processes tasks .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","304","204","202","104"]},"At operation , APD  requests task(s)  that require processing as described in operation .","At operation , APD  sends a request for task(s)  to APD driver module .","At operation , APD driver module  sends the request to APD dequeuing module .","At operation , APD dequeuing module  identifies task(s) that require processing and can be processed on APD  as described in operation .","At operation , semaphore block  synchronizes queue  and CPU synchronization module  as described in operation .","At operation , APD dequeuing module  dequeues tasks  for processing on APD  as described in operation  and send tasks  to APD driver module .","At operation , APD driver module  sends tasks  to APD , where tasks  are processed as described in operations -.","Various aspects of the present invention can be implemented by software, firmware, hardware, or a combination thereof. For example, the methods illustrated by flowcharts  of  of  of  can be implemented in unified computing system  of . Various embodiments of the invention are described in terms of this example unified computing system . It would be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the invention using other computer systems and\/or computer architectures.","In this document, the terms \u201ccomputer program medium\u201d and \u201ccomputer-usable medium\u201d are used to generally refer to media such as a removable storage unit or a hard disk drive. Computer program medium and computer-usable medium can also refer to memories, such as system memory  and graphics memory , which can be memory semiconductors (e.g., DRAMs, etc.). These computer program products are means for providing software to unified computing system .","The invention is also directed to computer program products comprising software stored on any computer-usable medium. Such software, when executed in one or more data processing devices, causes a data processing device(s) to operate as described herein or, as noted above, allows for the synthesis and\/or manufacture of computing devices (e.g., ASICs, or processors) to perform embodiments of the present invention described herein. Embodiments of the invention employ any computer-usable or -readable medium, known now or in the future. Examples of computer-usable mediums include, but are not limited to, primary storage devices (e.g., any type of random access memory), secondary storage devices (e.g., hard drives, floppy disks, CD ROMS, ZIP disks, tapes, magnetic storage devices, optical storage devices, MEMS, nanotechnological storage devices, etc.), and communication mediums (e.g., wired and wireless communications networks, local area networks, wide area networks, intranets, etc.).","While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not limitation. It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and details can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. It should be understood that the invention is not limited to these examples. The invention is applicable to any elements operating as described herein. Accordingly, the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS\/FIGURES","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated herein and form part of the specification, illustrate the present invention and, together with the description, further serve to explain the principles of the invention and to enable a person skilled in the pertinent art to make and use the invention. Various embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
