---
title: Active search results page ranking technology
abstract: Systems and methods for storing data regarding activities of a person and/or people associated with a website that is indexed in a search engine. Data regarding such activities is used to calculate a weighting factor that is combined with a relevance score for the website. The combined weighting factor and relevance score influences the relative position of the website among other websites in search results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849807&OS=08849807&RS=08849807
owner: 
number: 08849807
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20110524
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DEFINITIONS","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61\/347,905 filed May 25, 2010, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The present invention relates generally to managing, cataloging, and displaying information, and more particularly to methods and systems for managing, cataloging, and displaying information on a global communications network.","There exists a global system of interconnected computer networks through which information stored on one computer can be requested by and transmitted to another computer. This global system of interconnected computer networks, known as the Internet, and the methods by which information is requested and transmitted, was originally developed through funding from the Advanced Researched Projects Agency, a branch of the United States government, in the 1960s. Over time, software developers utilized the Internet as a framework upon which to develop software for specific purposes and to transmit information for each purpose in a particular way. These methods of communication were and are still known as protocols. For instance, the transfer of a file from one computer to another took place in the file transfer protocol (\u201cFTP\u201d). Software that mimicked the way mail is sent from one person to another person, but in an electronic form, operated using the simple mail transfer protocol (\u201cSMTP\u201d).","In the 1990's scientists at the European Organization for Nuclear Research (\u201cCERN\u201d) developed a framework for storing, requesting, and transmitting information in what is known as the hypertext markup language (\u201cHTML\u201d) and the corresponding hypertext transfer protocol (\u201cHTTP\u201d). This system is built on top of the communications framework of the Internet. The core feature of this particular system is to store and present documents (\u201cwebpages\u201d) in an electronic form that contains references (\u201clinks\u201d) to other such documents. Each link contains a Uniform Resource Locator (\u201cURL\u201d) which essentially is the address, in the HTTP format, of a particular document being linked to. From a topology perspective, the system of documents or files (again, \u201cwebpages\u201d) and the computers containing or hosting the collections of documents (\u201cwebsites\u201d) formed a web, and the system was appropriately named the World Wide Web (\u201cWWW\u201d) or Web, for short.","The software for viewing and requesting the information available on the World Wide Web began as crude text-only programs called web browsers. Though the early web browsers fulfilled the function of allowing a person to move from one document to another, through links, the ability to display non-text information, such as pictures, inline with the text was unavailable.","In 1993, a student at the University of Illinois named Marc Andreessen developed a landmark web browser called Mosaic that included the ability to show pictures in-line with the text of a document. Later Marc Andreessen, and entrepreneur, Jim Clark, formed a company called Netscape Communications Corporation (\u201cNetscape\u201d). Netscape developed an improved web browser along with a protocol, the secure sockets layer (\u201cSSL\u201d) for communicating sensitive information in a secure manner, as well a programming language known as JavaScript, which could be included in the HTML of a webpage to give the webpage more functionality.","Netscape's web browser popularized the World Wide Web because of the rich manner in which webpages could be presented. Businesses formed around the World Wide Web, offering all manner of services, and the amount of information stored on and accessible through the World Wide Web increased dramatically.","Identifying the need for technology to catalog and organize the developing body of information on the World Wide Web, companies such as Yahoo! Inc. developed computer programs that would seek out the information available on the World Wide Web by methodically copying the content of webpages stored on websites and index this content in their own databases. Early efforts at cataloging the information on World Wide Web resulted in webpages that presented a directory of broad topics, each of which was a link to another web page with more specific topics. By traversing through the directory structure, a person would eventually be led to a specific webpage. Later, companies such as Google, Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. developed systems and methods for determining the relevance, represented by a numerical score, of the content of any webpage with respect to a given keyword or set of keywords. The ability to assign a score to the relevance of a particular webpage to a keyword or set of keywords made it possible to rank webpages by their relevance to any given keywords. Systems with this capability came to be known as search engines. Search engines allow a person (the end user) to view the webpage of a company running a search engine, submit a keyword or set of keywords, and receive a listing of webpages (\u201csearch results\u201d) ranked by their relevance to the keyword(s). Each item in the list presented to the end user includes a link to a webpage, so that simply clicking on the item in the list causes the web browser to request, receive, and present to the person, the content of the webpage.","The above-described method of ranking search results by the relevance of the content of webpages to given keywords has come to be known in the art as organic or natural search results. Another method of ranking search results that is commonly employed by companies running search engines is known as sponsored or paid results. Using the sponsored-results method, search engines present search results based on the financial arrangement a website owner has made with the company running the search engine to associate a webpage with one or more keywords.","The present disclosed subject matter is directed to computer systems and computer-executable methods for 1) detecting, tracking, and recording data that indicates that a person, company, or entity is actively maintaining, updating, and generally promoting a website and 2) combining this data with a computer-calculated keyword relevance score to adjust the website's ranking relative to other websites in a listing of search results. This improvement over the prior art overcomes the problem of people being presented with search results containing highly ranked websites which contain keyword-irrelevant content, under the sponsored results model, and\/or websites that are outdated and\/or unsupported by anyone, under the organic results model. The systems and methods of the present invention, for purposes of this disclosure, shall be referred to as \u201cActive Search Results\u201d (\u201cASR\u201d).","Because sponsored results systems are based not on the content of a webpage, but on the amount that the Promoter pays to have certain keywords associated with a webpage, the webpages that the End User sees in the search results do not necessarily match the keywords that the End User is searching with. (Terms used herein with initial capital letters are defined below.) Organic searching provides a match that is closer with respect to the keywords that are searched for, but one major deficiency is that the site could be outdated. This deficiency could also be common with the paid search results sites. The content on the site could match the content that is searched but the website might not be current. For example, when someone is searching with a search engine and clicks on a search result, it is possible that no one associated with the returned website is:","1. Promoting the site","2. Updating the site with current content","3. Supporting the site","4. Providing customer support","5. Providing product support","6. Taking phone calls and\/or answering emails","7. Providing feedback to visitors and\/or customers","An analogy to such a website would be a big store with only one or no employees to serve the customers, or a store which is going out of business or is already out of business.","Throughout this disclosure, the terms \u201csite,\u201d \u201cwebsite,\u201d \u201cweb site,\u201d \u201cwebpage,\u201d and \u201cweb page\u201d are used interchangeably to refer to a source of information, entertainment, advertisements, or other content accessible on the World Wide Web (\u201cWWW\u201d) at a particular URL (defined below). A website often contains a collection of files or webpages, including a beginning file or webpage called a home page, and typically, additional files or webpages. Also, it should be understood that \u201csearch results\u201d as used in this disclosure refers to a listing of webpages presented to a person after the person enters a keywords and\/or other search criteria into a search engine. In addition, the following definitions are helpful in understanding the invention:","Activity\u2014An action or event that increases or decreases the Total Activity Weight of a website according to the systems and methods of the present invention.","Active Search Results (\u201cASR\u201d)\u2014The systems and methods of the present invention.","Active Search Results Identifier (\u201cASRID\u201d)\u2014An identifier specified in a Meta Tag or other electronic means to signify to search engines and other ASR-affiliated sites using ASR that a certain Promoter is associated with a webpage or other electronic activity. An ASRID allows a Promoter to not reveal any personally identifiable information to the general public, while having the benefit of the search engine indexing the webpage based on the Promoter's Activities.","Activity Weight\u2014A value that determines how strongly a particular Activity increases or decreases the Total Activity Weight associated with a given Promoter.","Ad Impression\u2014This is an instance of an advertisement being presented to an End User.","ASR Affiliated Site (\u201cASRAS\u201d)\u2014This term refers to the website of an entity that has affiliated with the ASR Operator. An ASRAS provides Promoters with opportunities to perform Activities through the ASRAS. The ASRAS records the performance of these Activities and reports them to ASR Operator.","Active Search Results (\u201cASR\u201d) Operator\u2014This is an entity, and more specifically, a Search Engine Company, that offers the functionality of the present invention to Promoters and End Users.","Click\u2014This refers to the act of a person activating an on-screen item, such as a link on a website, typically by moving a mouse pointer over the displayed item and pressing a button on the mouse to activate the item. In the context of this disclosure, a click is usually in reference to an on-screen link that a person activates. Clicking on a link causes a web browser displaying the link to request data from a URL (defined below) associated with the link.","Click Through\u2014This term refers to the instance when an End User is presented with an advertisement and the End User clicks on a link associated with the advertisement, generally with the purpose to learn more about the product or service being advertised.","End User\u2014This term refers to a person that is using a search engine to search for information.","Meta Tag\u2014Structured text in the source code of a webpage that includes instructions and keywords for Spiders. See below for a definition of \u201cSpider.\u201d","Promoter\u2014This term refers to a person or entity that seeks to increase the visibility and prominence of a particular website. A non-exhaustive list of Promoters is the owner of a website, an employee of a company that owns\/operates the website, or an outside consultant or company tasked with maintaining or increasing the prominence of the website.","Relevance\u2014A value representing how closely the content of a website matches the parameters and\/or keywords of a search query.","Search Engine Company\u2014A company or entity that provides a search engine to End Users. Examples are Google Inc., Yahoo! Inc., and Microsoft Corporation.","Search Engine Optimization (\u201cSEO\u201d)\u2014This term refers to a set of practices for increasing the ranking of a website in organic search results returned to an End User.","Search Engine Optimization Company (\u201cSEO Company\u201d)\u2014This is a company or entity that performs Search Engine Optimization on one or more websites so that search engine Spiders can understand and index the content better, thereby making the website \u201cSearch Engine Friendly.\u201d Search Engine Optimization Companies typically perform this task for a fee.","Search Engine Submission Company (\u201cSES Company\u201d)\u2014This is a company or entity that submits websites to search engines on behalf of a Promoter. An SES Company typically performs this task for a fee.","Spider\u2014This is a computer program that accesses the World Wide Web and then visits and downloads the content of one or more websites to a local copy. The content is then available for indexing by a search engine.","Social Network\u2014The term \u201csocial network\u201d means, in the database of a system that manages relationships between people on a global communications network, a set of people, each having a profile on the service and whose profiles are linked directly or indirectly to one another. The social network of any particular person is the set of people whose profiles are linked directly or indirectly to that person's profile. A direct link between two people's profiles generally results when people mutually agree to be directly related and notify the system of their agreement. An indirect link between a first person's profile and a second person's profile is present when they are not directly linked and a third person's profile is directly linked to both the first and second persons' profiles.","Social Networking Website\u2014A website that implements a social network. Examples are Facebook, from Facebook, Inc. of Palo Alto, Calif., wherein a person linked to another person is known as a \u201cfriend\u201d and LinkedIn, from LinkedIn Corporation of Santa Monica, Calif., wherein a person linked to another person is known as a \u201cconnection.\u201d The terms \u201cfriend,\u201d \u201cconnection,\u201d and \u201cfriend connection\u201d are used generically and interchangeably herein.","Total Activity Weight\u2014The combined value of all of the Activities, scaled by each associated Activity Weight, attributable to a given Promoter.","Total Weight\u2014A value that influences how highly a particular website is ranked in search results generated by the systems and methods of the present invention. The Total Weight includes, as one element, the Total Activity Weight of the Promoter(s) for the website.","Uniform Resource Locator (\u201cURL\u201d)\u2014A string of letters and\/or numbers that acts as the address of a source of content accessible through the Internet.","Uptime: The length of time that a computer is in continuous operation. The uptime ends when a computer is reset or shut down.","WHOIS\u2014An Internet query\/response communication protocol used for querying a domain registration database to determine the identity of a registrant of an Internet domain.","The present invention includes systems and methods for ranking websites in the search results of a keyword-based Internet search, based in part on Activities attributable to Promoters. Again, Promoters in the context of this invention are people, or more generally, entities, that seek to increase the prominence of a particular website, and more specifically, who wish to have the website appear higher and preferably first in search results. The method of calculating the ranking of one website relative to another is shown mathematically later in this disclosure. In short, the method is to sum the weights of a series of Activities, wherein each type of Activity has an Activity Weight assigned to it by the ASR Operator. The sum is called the Total Activity Weight. The Total Activity Weight is added to a score based on the Relevance of the content of each website in relation to keywords that might be entered by an End User. The sum of the Total Activity Weight and the Relevance score is referred to as the Total Weight. The Total Weight of a website controls how highly the website will be ranked in search results.","Another aspect of the invention is a method for updating the Total Activity Weight on a continuous basis, comprising: detecting the occurrence of an Activity attributable to a Promoter of a website; recording the Activity in a log; reviewing the log on a periodic basis, preferably every 30 minutes; calculating a new Total Activity Weight attributable to the Promoter, based on the Activities recorded in the log and an Activity Weight associated with each Activity; storing the new Total Activity Weight in a database that includes Total Activity Weight for Promoters; and making the updated database of indexes accessible to the search engine. In a further aspect, the invention includes the method disclosed above, with the further step of storing the new Total Activity Weight for all website URLs associated with the Promoter in a database that associates the Total Activity Weights of Promoters with website URLs.","The following are illustrative examples of Activities attributable to a Promoter. The occurrence of each Activity is recorded in the Activity log and taken into account in calculating an updated Total Activity Weight for the Promoter and an updated Total Weight for the websites associated with the Promoter.","Activity 1: The Activity of a Promoter logging into the ASR Operator's website.","Activity 2: The Activity of a Promoter logging into an ASR Affiliated Site.","Activity 3: The Activity of a Promoter opening an email sent to the Promoter's email address by the ASR Operator, which causes an electronic notification to be sent to the ASR Operator that the Promoter opened the email. This can be accomplished by including a web beacon in an email, as will be understood by people skilled in the art.","Activity 4: The Activity of a Promoter opening an email sent to the Promoter's email address by an ASR Affiliated Site, which causes an electronic notification to be sent either directly to the ASR Operator or to the ASR Affiliated Site, which then notifies the ASR Operator. Again, this can be accomplished by including a web beacon in an email, as will be understood by people skilled in the art.","Activity 5: The Activity of a Promoter opening an email sent by the ASR Operator to the Promoter's email address and clicking on a link in the email. When the Promoter clicks on the link, which could be encoded with the Promoter's ASRID or other identifying indicia, the ASR Operator receives a notification that the Promoter clicked on the link.","Activity 6: The Activity of a Promoter opening an email sent by an ASR Affiliated Site to the Promoter's email address and clicking on a link in the email. When the Promoter clicks on the link, which could be encoded with the Promoter's ASRID or other identifying indicia, an electronic notification is sent either directly to the ASR Operator or to the ASR Affiliated Site, which then notifies the ASR Operator.","Activity 7: The Activity of a Promoter opening an email sent by the ASR Operator to the Promoter's email address and clicking on a link in the email to purchase an item advertised in the email. When the Promoter purchases the item, the ASR Operator receives an electronic notification that the Promoter clicked on the link and purchased the item.","Activity 8: The Activity of a Promoter opening an email sent by an ASR Affiliated Site to the Promoter's email address and clicking on a link in the email to purchase an item advertised in the email. When the Promoter purchases the item, the ASR Operator receives an electronic notification that the Promoter clicked on the link and purchased the item. The notification is either sent directly to the ASR Operator, or indirectly, by way of the ASR Affiliated Site.","Activity 9: The Activity of a Promoter clicking on a link on the ASR Operator's website. Upon the Promoter clicking on a link, the ASR Operator detects this event and attributes it to the Promoter based on the IP address of the Promoter's computer, one or more cookies stored in the Promoter's web browser, or because the Promoter logged into the ASR Operator's website first.","Activity 10: The Activity of a Promoter clicking on a link on an ASR Affiliated Site. Upon the Promoter clicking on a link, the ASR Operator detects this event and attributes it to the Promoter based on the IP address of the Promoter's computer, one or more cookies stored in the Promoter's web browser, or because the Promoter logged into the ASR Operator's website first. As with many other Activities performed in conjunction with an ASR Affiliated Site, the ASR Operator may be directly notified of the Activity or indirectly notified by receiving information of the occurrence of the Activity from the ASR Affiliated Site.","Activity 11: The Activity of a Promoter submitting the URL of a website to the ASR Operator's URL submission system.","Activity 12: The Activity of a Promoter submitting personal or demographic information to the ASR Provider in response to a query for such information from the ASR Provider. Depending on the amount of personal or demographic information provided by the Promoter, the ASR Operator assigns more or less Activity Weight to this Activity, or counts it as multiple Activities.","Activity 13: The Activity of a Promoter submitting personal or demographic information to an ASR Affiliated Site in response to a query for such information from the ASR Affiliated Site. Depending on the amount of personal or demographic information provided by the Promoter, the ASR Operator, or in other embodiments, the ASR Affiliated Site, assigns more or less Activity Weight to this Activity, or counts it as multiple Activities.","Activity 14: The Activity of a Promoter performing a search through the ASR Operator's website or ASR Affiliated Site.","Activity 15: The Activity of a first Promoter referring a second Promoter to the ASR Operator. More specifically, this Activity is detected, recorded, and attributed to the first Promoter when the second Promoter registers with the ASR Operator through the ASR Operator's website or URL submission system and indicates, as part of the registration, that the first Promoter referred the second Promoter to the ASR Operator.","Activity 16: The Activity of a Promoter posting one or more reviews of or links to the ASR Operator's website or ASR Affiliated Site on one or more of the Promoter's websites or another website. In the normal course of operation, the ASR Operator's computer system periodically analyzes the content of a Promoter's website(s) for changes, working hyperlinks, and updated content. For example, the Activity Weight or the number of Activities recorded may correspond to the number of links to the ASR Operator's website discovered on the Promoter's website.","In an exemplary embodiment:","1. A Promoter places a link on the Promoter's website to the website of the ASR Operator.","2. The Promoter logs into to website of the ASR Operator and, through an online form, submits the URL of the Promoter's website, indicates where the link appears on the website, and where it points to.","3. The computer system of the ASR Operator spiders the webpage where the link should be, as indicated by the Promoter. If the ASR Operator's computer system finds the link, the ASR Operator's computer system increases the Promoter's Total Activity Weight.","In the context of a Promoter generating an online a review of the ASR Operator's website, the following is an exemplary embodiment of the process.","1. A Promoter places a review about the ASR Operator's website on a website.","2. The Promoter logs into to the ASR Operator's website and, through an online form, adds the URL where the review is and some of the wording of the review.","3. The computer system of the ASR Operator spiders the webpage where the review should be. If it finds the review, the computer system of the ASR Operator increases the Total Activity Weight of the Promoter.","Activity 17: The Activity of a Promoter adding links to ASR Affiliated Sites to one or more websites associated with the Promoter. As mentioned before, in the normal course of operation, the ASR Operator's computer system periodically analyzes the content of a Promoter's website(s) for changes, working hyperlinks, and updated content. For this Activity, the Activity Weight or the number of Activities recorded corresponds to the number of links to ASR Affiliated Sites discovered on the Promoter's website.","Activity 18: The Activity of a Promoter maintaining a website associated with the Promoter so well that an End User gives the website a high recommendation or high ranking. More specifically, on any of the Promoter's websites, the Promoter may include a section that allows an End User to click a button, specify a rating, or otherwise indicate that the website is of high quality and well supported, in the End User's opinion. This feedback is then transmitted to the ASR Operator's computer system.","Activity 19. The Activity of a Promoter making one or more friend connections within a social networking website, an ASR Affiliated Site or ASR Operator's Site. In one embodiment, the more friends that are added within a given time period, such as a day, the more weight that is given to the activity. In another embodiment, each friend added counts as an activity. For a social networking website that is not run by the ASR Operator's computer system and is not an ASR Affiliate Site, the ASR Operator's computer system will analyze activity report emails sent directly to it by a social networking site or which are forwarded from the Promoter to the ASR Operator's computer system. In preferred embodiments, the Promoter includes the Promoter's ASRID in the Promoter's profile on the social networking website.","The ASR Operator's computer system parses the email to determine how many friends the Promoter added, as reported in the email. In an alternative embodiment, the ASR Operator's computer system interacts directly with the social networking site directly and \u201cviews\u201d the Promoter's set of friends or connections on a periodic basis and determines if the Promoter's set of friends or connections has grown. This can be done by accessing the social networking website and parsing the web pages, or by accessing the database of the social networking website with an Application Programming Interface (\u201cAPI\u201d). Where necessary, the ASR Operator's computer has a user account on the social networking website and is a friend or connection of the Promoter, allowing the ASR Operator's computer to access the pertinent information regarding the Promoter's actions on the social networking website.","Activity 20. The Activity of a Promoter removing one or more friend connections within a social networking website, an ASR Affiliated Site or ASR Operator's Site. The above discussion regarding how the ASR Operator's computer system detects a Promoter's addition of friend connections also applies to how it detects a Promoter's removal of one or more friend connections. The above discussion of counting Activities and assigning Activity Weights applies here as well.","Activity 21. The Activity of a Promoter sending an email or sending\/posting a message within a social networking website, an ASR Affiliated Site or ASR Operator's Site. The above discussion regarding the ASR Operator's ability to detect occurrences on a social networking website applies here as well.","Activity 22. The Activity of a Promoter registering a domain name with a domain name registration company, an ASR Affiliated Site or ASR Operator's Site. In the context of a domain name registration company that is not affiliated with or otherwise in direct communication with the ASR Operator's computer system, in one embodiment, the Promoter may include the Promoter's ASRID in the WHOIS information for the domain. The Promoter then logs into to the ASR Operator's computer system and, through an online form, submits the name of the domain which the Promoter registered. The ASR Operator's computer system checks the WHOIS information for the domain and finds the Promoter's ASRID listed therein. As a result, the ASR Operator's computer system increases the Promoter's Total Activity Weight. In other embodiments, the domain registration company sends a notification that the Promoter registered the domain either directly to the ASR Operator's computer system, or to the Promoter, who then forwards it to the ASR Operator's computer system. In preferred embodiments, the notification includes the Promoter's ASRID.","Activity 23. The Activity of a Promoter creating an account with an ASR Affiliated Site or ASR Operator's Site.","Activity 24. The Activity of a Promoter posting pictures or comments to a social networking website, a news group, a blog site, an ASR Affiliated Site, or ASR Operator's Site.","Activity 25. The Activity of a Promoter writing and\/or submitting a news release, a press release, an article, or a book. Such items are advertised and\/or listed in different places on the Internet. In one embodiment, a Promoter adds the Promoter's ASRID in an article and when the computer systems of the ASR Operator finds\/spiders the article with the Promoter's ASRID, the Promoter will receive credit in the form of an increased Total Activity Weight.","Activity 26. The Activity of a Promoter purchasing products and\/or services from an ASR Affiliated Site or ASR Operator's Site.","Activity 27. The Activity of a Promoter maintaining his website to maximize uptime and\/or minimize response times. The ASR Operator's computer system may test these conditions directly, by periodically attempting to access the Promoter's website and recording whether the website was accessible and how quickly the website responded. Alternatively, the ASR Operator's computer system may obtain such information from a third-party service. As an example, each time the accessibility and\/or responsiveness of a Promoter's website is tested and the website is accessible and responds within a predetermined amount of time, an activity is recorded for the Promoter.","Activity 28. The Activity of Promoter having the Promoter's website monitored for availability, proper response codes, web traffic and\/or analytical statistics. For example, the Promoter sends a notification to the computer system of the ASR Operator, telling it that the Promoter's website has been submitted to a third party's service for monitoring the website. In this embodiment, the Promoter submits to the Promoter's ASRID and the URL of the Promoter's website to the computer system of the ASR Operator. Subsequently, the computer system of the ASR Operator communicates with the third party's website for confirmation that the Promoter's website is indeed being monitored.","In another embodiment of the above Activity, the third party website monitoring company is more actively engaged in the process and pays fees to the ASR Operator to be licensed to generate activities for Promoters. In this embodiment, the third party monitoring company initiates communication with the computer system of the ASR Operator, sending an indication that the Promoter is performing activity, (e.g., having the Promoter's site monitored) by the third party website monitoring company. In the communication, the monitoring company identifies the Promoter by the Promoter's ASRID, allowing the computer system of the ASR Operator to update the Activity information for the Promoter. The third party monitoring company benefits because it gets more traffic on its site from Promoters wanting to increase their activity levels to get higher rankings in search results. The ASR Operator benefits by the third party monitoring company paying fees to the ASR Operator to be a company that is licensed to generate activities for Promoters. The Promoters benefit with a higher Total Activity Weight, as explained below, and as a result, higher rankings in search results.","It should be understood by those skilled in the art that the Activities of a Promoter can be detected and attributed to the Promoter based on the login session identification, the ASRID, the IP address of the Promoter's computer, the Promoter's email address, cookies stored in the Promoter's web browser, or software running locally on the Promoter's computer that monitors the Promoter's Internet traffic and\/or mouse clicks or keystrokes. It should also be understood that any Activities taking place on an ASR Affiliated Site are reported directly by the ASR Affiliated Site to the ASR Operator's site.","The systems and methods of the present invention improve on the prior art as follows:","Benefits to End Users\n\n","Each Activity is assigned a weight called an Activity Weight. When a Promoter is found to have a certain Activity, the weight for that Activity and all other defined Activities are summed and used to increase or decrease the ranking of the websites associated with the Promoter. The assignment of the Activity to Activity Weight is performed purely as a business decision. For example, if a business that is assigning Activity Weights to Activities decides that the Activity of logging into their website is worth an Activity Weight of 2, then an assignment of Activity Weight 2 will be assigned when a Promoter logs into the site. As a result, when a Promoter logs in, a 2 is added to the Promoter's Total Activity Weight. This process can be applied to any number of Activities.","In the equations disclosed hereinbelow, the following symbols are used:","Number of Activities of a given type\u2014\u03bc","Total number of Activities\u2014\u00a5","Activity Weight\u2014\u03b1","Total Activity Weight\u2014\u03a9","The Total Activity Weight, \u03a9, is calculated as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0103"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},{"mtext":{}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03a9","mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"\u03bc","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u00a5"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c0","\u03bc"]}}}}}}},"br":[{},{}]},"The ranking of webpages in the search results are influenced by a combination of \u03a9 and \u03a6. More specifically, the search results are ranked by the product or sum of \u03a9 and \u03a6, as shown below. Also, if no Activity is found and if the product is used, \u03a9 will be one and no adjustment will be made to the result. If the sum is used, then \u03a9 will be zero and no adjustments will be made to the results. So, the final page ranking weight could be calculated in one of the following two ways:\n\nTotal Weight=\u03a9*\u03a6,\n\nwhere if the Total Activities Weight, \u03a9, is 0, it is changed to 1 in this equation.\n\nOr\n\nTotal Weight=\u03a9+\u03a6,\n\nwhere if the Total Activities Weight, \u03a9, is 0, it is 0.\n\nAspects of the Invention\n","One aspect of the invention is a method of ranking websites in a listing of search results in response to a search query, comprising the steps of:","downloading content from websites and storing said content in a first computer database;","indexing said websites in such a way that a relevance score can be calculated, said relevance score representing how closely the content of an indexed website matches criteria of a search query;","associating a person with one or more websites and storing said association in a second computer database;","assigning a positive or negative weight to each of one or more types of activities that could be performed by said person;","receiving at least one electronic notification transmitted through a computer network, each notification indicating that said person performed at least one activity of a certain type at least once;","for each activity indicated in the at least one electronic notification, adding the weight associated with the type of the activity to a total activity weight and storing said total activity weight in the second computer database, thereby associating indexed websites associated with the person with a total activity weight;","receiving a search query;","calculating a relevance score for each indexed website, based on the search query;","calculating a total weight for each indexed website, wherein the total weight is based on the relevance score of the indexed website and any total activity weight associated with the website in the second computer database; and","ranking the websites in a list by the total weight of each website.","In a further aspect, in the above-disclosed method, the total weight is the sum of the relevance score and any activity weight associated with the website in the second computer database.","A further aspect of the invention is the above-recited method wherein said types of activities are those in the enumerated listing of Activities provided earlier in this disclosure.","Another aspect of the invention is a system for ranking websites in a listing of search results in response to a search query, comprising:","a computer or network of computers programmed with computer-executable instructions for:","downloading content from websites and storing said content in a first computer database;","indexing said websites in such a way that a relevance score can be calculated, said relevance score representing how closely the content of an indexed website matches criteria of a search query;","associating a person with one or more websites and storing said association in a second computer database;","assigning a positive or negative weight to each of one or more types of activities that could be performed by said person;","receiving at least one electronic notification transmitted through a computer network, each notification indicating that said person performed at least one activity of a certain type at least once;","for each activity indicated in the at least one electronic notification, adding the weight associated with the type of the activity to a total activity weight and storing said total activity weight in the second computer database, thereby associating indexed websites associated with the person with a total activity weight;","receiving a search query;","calculating a relevance score for each indexed website, based on the search query;","calculating a total weight for each indexed website, wherein the total weight is based on the relevance score of the indexed website and any total activity weight associated with the website in the second computer database; and","ranking the websites in a list by the total weight of each website.","In a further aspect, in the above-disclosed system, the total weight is the sum of the relevance score and any activity weight associated with the website in the second computer database.","A further aspect of the invention is the above-recited system wherein said types of activities are those in the enumerated listing of Activities provided earlier in this disclosure.","A further aspect of the invention is a method for improving the ranking of a particular website among a plurality of websites in a listing of search results generated by a search engine in response to a search query, comprising:","using a first computer networked to a search engine that assigns a positive or negative weight to each of one or more types of activities performed by a person associated with the particular website that indicate that said person maintains and supports said particular website and incorporates said weight in ranking the particular website relative to a plurality of websites in generating a listing of search results in response to a search query,","performing one or more of said types of activities.","A further aspect of the invention is the above-recited method wherein said types of activities are those in the enumerated listing of Activities provided earlier in this disclosure.","A further aspect of the invention is a method for improving the ranking of a particular website among a plurality of websites in a listing of search results generated by a search engine in response to a search query, comprising:","using a first computer networked to a search engine comprising:","a computer or network of computers programmed with computer-executable instructions for:\n\n","performing one or more of said activities.","A further aspect of the invention is the above-recited method wherein said types of activities are those in the enumerated listing of Activities provided earlier in this disclosure.","A further aspect of the invention is a method for querying a search engine for a listing a websites that are ranked by relevance to criteria specified in a search query and by the degree to which the websites are supported and maintained, comprising:","using a first computer networked to a search engine that assigns a positive or negative weight to each of one or more types of activities performed by a person associated with a particular website that indicate that said person maintains and supports said particular website and incorporates said weight in ranking the particular website relative to a plurality of websites in generating a listing of search results in response to a search query,","submitting a search query to said search engine; and","receiving said listing of websites that are ranked by relevance to criteria specified in a search query and by the degree to which the websites are supported and maintained.","A further aspect of the invention is the above-recited method wherein said types of activities are those in the enumerated listing of Activities provided earlier in this disclosure.","A further aspect of the invention is a method for querying a search engine for a listing a websites that are ranked by relevance to criteria specified in a search query and by the degree to which the websites are supported and maintained, comprising:","using a first computer networked to a search engine comprising:","a computer or network of computers programmed with computer-executable instructions for:\n\n","submitting a search query to said search engine; and","receiving said listing of websites that are ranked by relevance to criteria specified in a search query and by the degree to which the websites are supported and maintained.","A further aspect of the invention is the above-recited method wherein said types of activities are those in the enumerated listing of Activities provided earlier in this disclosure.","These and other aspects of the present invention will become readily apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0179"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["110","114","114","112","114"]},"The Promoter's Computer  is also connected with the ASR Operator's URL Submission System , which provides a webpage interface through which the Promoter can submit the URL for Promoter's Website , which the Promoter is promoting. It should be understood that a Promoter may be associated with multiple websites. In order to submit the URL through the ASR Operator's URL Submission System , the Promoter must be registered with the ASR Operator. The Promoter registers with the ASR Operator through a webpage which requires contact information and gives the Promoter the option of providing additional, but non-required information, regarding the Promoter's age, gender, income, purchasing habits, the company the Promoter is associated with, and other information that the ASR Operator might find useful for obtaining demographic information about Promoters. In some embodiments, the ASR Operator may sell or license this information to online marketing companies. By registering with the ASR Operator, the Promoter is assigned an Active Search Results Identification Number, or ASRID. The Promoter is incentivized to provide the non-required information during registration because answering each question counts as an Activity, which, as explained herein, increases the search results rankings for the website(s) that the Promoter is associated with.","The Promoter's Computer  is also connected with a Search Engine Submission Company's Website , which allows the Promoter to submit the URL of a website without providing any information regarding the identity of the Promoter. The Search Engine Submission Company's Website  is connected with the ASR Operator's URL Submission System , and through this connection, it transmits URL's submitted anonymously to the ASR Operator's URL Submission System . Activities, such as maintaining and updating the Promoter's Website , fixing dead links on the Promoter's Website , and responding to customer inquiries posted to the Promoter's Website  can still be associated with and credited to the Promoter even though the Promoter submitted the URL of the Promoter's Website  anonymously. This association is possible if the ASRID of the Promoter is included as a meta tag in the HTML of the webpages accessible on the Promoter's Website .","The ASR Activity Tracking System  records instances of Activities in Activity Log . The information recorded for each Activity includes the ASRID of the Promoter associated with the Activity and the Activity Weight for the Activity. Additional information may include, but is not limited to, the website on which the Activity occurred and the time and date that the Activity occurred. The Activity Log  is one or more flat files or, preferably, a structured query language (\u201cSQL\u201d)-addressable relational database. It should be understood that the Activity Log  can exist in the memory of one particular computer or be distributed across multiple computers. The ASR Operator's computer systems calculate Total Activity Weights for each Promoter registered with the ASR Operator on a continual basis. As disclosed previously, and as shown at block , the Total Activity Weight for a given Promoter is calculated by multiplying each Activity by its respective Activity Weight, and summing the results. This step may be carried out by the ASR Operator's Activity Tracking System, or one or more separate computers with access to the Activity Log . The ASR Operator's computer systems store the calculated Total Activity Weights in the Weights and Content Database .","The ASR Operator's URL Submission System  records URLs of websites submitted to it from the Promoter  and the Search Engine Submission Company's Website  in the Submitted URL Database . Like the Activity Log , the Submitted URL Database  is one or more flat files or, preferably, a SQL-addressable relational database. It should be understood that the Submitted URL Database  can exist in the memory of one particular computer or be distributed across multiple computers. The ASR Operator's computer systems are connected to the Submitted URL Database , as well as a Discovered URL Database , and an outside database of registered domains, such as one maintained by an Internet domain registrar , and the websites addressable by the URLs. One such website is the Promoter's Website .","An important function carried out by the computer systems of the ASR Operator is acting as a Spider to and downloading the content of into websites located at URLs in the Submitted URL Database  into the Weights and Content Database . While downloading website content during this process, the computer systems of the ASR Operator may come across URLs acting as links to other websites in the content. The ASR Operator's computer systems store these URLs into the Discovered URL Database . Another source of URLs that the ASR Operator's computer systems may draw upon is a database maintained by an Internet domain registrar .","With Total Activity Weights and website content stored in the Weights and Content Database , the ASR Operator's computer system indexes the content using methods known in the prior art. The indexing process, as will be understood by a person skilled in the art of search engines, generates information for determining a website's Relevance to a particular keyword or combination of keywords. This step is shown at block . The ASR Operator's computer system stores the indexed content, along with the associated URL for the website content, and the Total Activity Weight, if any, for each website URL in the Indexed Content and Weights Database .","The ASR Operator's Website  presents a web interface to an End User via the End User's Computer . The web interface allows the End User to enter a keyword-based search query. When the End User enters a keyword-based search query, End User's Computer  transmits the query to ASR Operator's Website  which determines the Relevance of the keywords to the content of websites in the Indexed Content and Weights Database . This process is known in the art. However the ASR Operator's Website  also factors in the Total Activity Weight of each indexed website to arrive at a Total Weight for each indexed website. The Total Weights dictate how highly ranked each indexed website will be in a listing of search results returned to End User's Computer . If a link to Promoter's Website  comes up as one of the highly ranked search results, the End User might click on the link, causing End User's Computer  to communicate with and receive content from Promoter's Website .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0187"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["210","136","142","136","142","212","142","140","140","142","214","142","136","216","218","132","136","132","220","132","136"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0188"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["132","116","310","110","116","310","132","116","312","122","314","122","132","316","318"]},"The ASR Operator's computer system scans the downloaded content for additional URLs and stores any and all discovered URLs in the Discovered URLs Database , at step . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system stores the downloaded content in the Weights and Content Database . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system indexes the content using methods known in the prior art. The indexing process, as will be understood by a person skilled in the art of search engines, generates information for determining a website's Relevance to a particular keyword or combination of keywords. This is shown at block . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system stores the indexed content for the Promoter's Website  in the Indexed Content and Weights Database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0190"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["132","410","110","118","410","132","118","116","412"]},"At step , the ASR Operator's URL Submission System  stores the URL in the Submitted URL Database . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system retrieves the URL from the Submitted URL Database , and acting as a Spider, requests content from the Promoter's Website  at step  and receives and stores it at step . The ASR Operator's computer system scans the downloaded content for additional URLs and stores any and all discovered URLs in the Discovered URLs Database , at step . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system stores the downloaded content in the Weights and Content Database . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system indexes the content using methods known in the prior art. The indexing process, as will be understood by a person skilled in the art of search engines, generates information for determining a website's Relevance to a particular keyword or combination of keywords. This is shown at block . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system stores the indexed content for the Promoter's Website  in the Indexed Content and Weights Database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0192"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["116","118","510","110","132","132"]},"At step , the ASR Operator's computer system retrieves the URL of the Promoter's Website  during a regularly scheduled query for URLs from a URL database maintained by a domain registrar . Alternatively, during a regularly scheduled query of URLs found while scanning downloaded content for URLs, step , the ASR Operator's computer system might come retrieve the URL of the Promoter's Website  from the Discovered URLs Database . In either case, the ASR Operator's computer system acts as a Spider and requests content from the Promoter's Website  at step  and receives and stores the content at step . The ASR Operator's computer system scans the downloaded content for additional URLs and stores any and all discovered URLs in the Discovered URLs Database , at step . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system stores the downloaded content in the Weights and Content Database . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system indexes the content using methods known in the prior art, as discussed with regard to , this process is represented at block . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system stores the indexed content for the Promoter's Website  in the Indexed Content and Weights Database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0194"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["132","610","110","114","114","612","114","120"]},"The Activity Weight can be any non-zero number, including negative numbers. In this example, the Activity Weight is 1.2. At step , the ASR Operator's computer system queries the Activity Log  for new Activities and as shown as item , calculates the increase in the Total Activity Weights for Promoters. In this example, the Promoter's Total Activity Weight increases by 1.2. The ASR Operator's computer system queries the Activity Log  for new Activities on a periodic basis, which in this example is every 30 minutes. At step , the ASR Operator's computer system adds 1.2 to the Promoter's existing Total Activity Weight in the Weights and Content Database . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system performs a scheduled query of the Weights and Content Database  for newly added data. At item , the ASR Operator's computer system performs a scheduled indexing of any newly added content to the Weights and Content Database . At step , the ASR Operator's computer system stores any newly indexed content in the Indexed Content and Weights Database  and adds the newly calculated Total Activities Weight to the Total Weight for all websites associated with the Promoter's ASRID.","The above-described embodiments are intended to illustrate the principles of the invention, but not to limit its scope. Other embodiments and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art and may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. However, due to the intense amount processing, indexing, and information transmission required to carry out the methods of the present invention, it should be easily understood that computers and computer networks are integral to and necessary for carrying out the methods disclosed herein.","Further, it is to be understood that all communication between computers and databases as disclosed herein is possible because they are connected together as part of the same computer or networked together via a wired or wireless network. It should also be understood that the databases discussed herein could be embodied in one or more flat files or in relational databases, and that they could be stored in the memory of one computer or distributed across multiple computers. It should also be understood that the method of calculating the Relevance score of a website, but not the Total Activity Weight or the Total Weight, is based on prior art methods and is not limited to keyword-based queries."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0173"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0174"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0175"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0176"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0177"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0142","num":"0178"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
