---
title: Multiple configurable customization layer system, method and computer program product
abstract: A system, method and computer program product are provided for customizing a core program. In use, a core program is provided. In addition, a plurality of configurable customization layers are provided, each for customizing at least one aspect of the core program or one of the configurable customization layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141409&OS=09141409&RS=09141409
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 09141409
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20110914
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11\/521,128, filed Sep. 13, 2006, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The present invention relates to program customization, and more particularly to customizing various aspects of a program.","Programs are customized for a variety of purposes. Just by way of example, a core product may be customized to meet the needs of a particular customer, to update an aspect to suit a specific environment, etc. Traditional systems typically only employ a single layer of customization to facilitate the foregoing customization. Specifically, by including such single customization layer, any particular aspect of the core product may be customized for any one of a variety of reasons.","Despite the benefits associated with such single customization layer, some drawbacks exist. For example, when a common code is developed in the customization layer and a customer needs to customize the same, such customer account may replicate the common code and apply customizations to such code. If, however, changes are later made to the common customization code, they have to be reapplied to each customer account that customized it.","There is thus a need for overcoming these and\/or other problems associated with the prior art.","A system, method and computer program product are provided for customizing a core program. In use, a core program is provided. In addition, a plurality of configurable customization layers are provided, each for customizing at least one aspect of the core program or one of the configurable customization layers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","100","102","102"]},"Coupled to the network  is a plurality of devices. For example, a server computer  and an end user computer  may be coupled to the network  for communication purposes. Such end user computer  may include a desktop computer, lap-top computer, and\/or any other type of logic. Still yet, various other devices may be coupled to the network  including a personal digital assistant (PDA) device , a mobile phone device , a television , etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","200","100","200"]},"As shown, a computer system  is provided including at least one central processor  which is connected to a communication bus . The computer system  also includes main memory  [e.g. random access memory (RAM), etc.]. The computer system  also includes a graphics processor  and a display .","The computer system  may also include a secondary storage . The secondary storage  includes, for example, a hard disk drive and\/or a removable storage drive, representing a floppy disk drive, a magnetic tape drive, a compact disk drive, etc. The removable storage drive reads from and\/or mites to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.","Computer programs, or computer control logic algorithms, may be stored in the main memory  and\/or the secondary storage . Such computer programs, when executed, enable the computer system ) to perform various functions. Memory , storage  and\/or any other storage are possible examples of computer-readable media.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1"],"b":["300","300","2","300"]},"As shown, a core program  is included. The core program may include an application program, system program, and\/or any other program. In addition, the core program may include a generic program manufactured and distributed to a plurality of users or a specialized program manufactured specifically for a particular user.","Further, the core program may include any type of program (e.g. security, billing, etc.) capable of being executed on a computer. For example, the core program may be capable of being executed on any of the devices described above with respect to  and\/or . Of course, however, the core program may be capable of being executed on any desired type of device.","Moreover, a plurality of configurable customization layers A-N are included for customizing at least one aspect of the core program  or one of the configurable customization layers A-N. Specifically, the configurable customization layers A-N may include program layers capable of updating the core program . As another option, the configurable customization layers A-N may include program layers capable of updating at least one configurable customization layer A-N already applied to the core program . Such updating may include, for example, customizing and\/or modifying the core program  and\/or pre-existing configurable customization layers A-N.","In addition, in one embodiment, the configurable customization layers A-N may be positioned on top of the core program . The configurable customization layers A-N may be placed on top of the core program  by packaging configurable customization layers A-N already positioned on the core program. One example of such packaging will be described in more detail with respect to . Of course, it should be noted that the configurable customization layers A-N may be placed on top of the core program  in any desired manner.","For example, in an optional embodiment, the customization layers A-N and the core program  may be configured as a stack. For example, the customization layers A-N may serve to provide higher-level functionality. Put another way, the core program  may function without the customization layers A-N.","The configurable customization layers A-N may be configured according to the needs and\/or desires of at least one user of the core program . The configurable customization layers A-N may also be configured by users of the core program . As will be described below, the configurable customization layers A-N may be configured generically and\/or specifically for updating the core program .","The configurable customization layers A-N may update the core program  in any number of various ways. Just by way of example, the configurable customization layers A-N may customize an extension of a data model of the core program , may introduce a new data model, or may include an extension of an application program interface (API) exposed by the core program . Of course, the API may also be exposed by another configurable customization layer A-N positioned on top of the core program  and\/or below yet another configurable customization layer A-N.","Further, in some embodiments, the configurable customization layers A-N may include an introduction of an API. Furthermore, the configurable customization layers A-N may declare (e.g. define, etc.) an exit point (e.g. hook, etc.). The exit point may be utilized by another configurable customization layer A-N to be placed on top of the configurable customization layer A-N that declares the exit point.","Such other configurable customization layer A-N that utilizes the exit point may be directly placed on top of the configurable customization layer A-N that declares the exit point or may be placed more than one layer above such configurable customization layer A-N. Thus, the exit point may be exposed by a configurable customization layer A-N that is positioned on top of another configurable customization layer A-N and\/or that is positioned below another configurable customization layer A-N.","Additionally, the exit point may be capable of being customized by only a subset of the configurable customization layers A-N. Specifically, the implementation may include opening and\/or blocking the exit point for customization by a next configurable customization layer A-N. Just by way of example, an exit point that is blocked by a configurable customization layer A-N may not be utilized by subsequently applied configurable customization layers A-N, in the context of one optional embodiment. Of course, it should be noted, however, that the configurable customization layers A-N may perform any desired functions for updating the core program and any existing configurable customization layers A-N.","In one embodiment, at least one of the configurable customization layers A-N may include a generic customization layer. The generic customization layer may be capable of being reused by a plurality of users (e.g. customization personnel, etc.). For example, the generic customization layer may be utilized by a plurality of users of a core program  to update the core program or the generic customization layer. Moreover, if N\u22121 configurable customization layers A-N are applied to a core program , then the N\u22121 configurable customization layers A-N may be considered a generic customization layer to the Nth subsequent configurable customization layers A-N.","Further, the generic customization layer may optionally be utilized with a generic core program. Of course, however, the generic customization layer may optionally be utilized with any desired core program . The generic customization layer may also be positioned on top of the core program , or in the case of a core program  with configurable customization layers A-N already applied, may be applied to any preceding configurable customization layers A-N.","In another embodiment, the configurable customization layers A-N fray include at least one specific customization layer. The specific customization layer may optionally include a customization layer that is specific to a particular user of the core program . For example, the specific customization layer may be created to accommodate the particular needs of a single user of the core program .","As an option, the specific customization layer may be positioned on top of the generic customization layer. Thus, the specific customization layer may further update a core program  from a generic update already applied to the core program utilizing a generic customization layer. As another option, the specific customization layer may be positioned directly on top of the core program .","Accordingly, the configurable customization layers A-N may be utilized for customizing at least one aspect of the core program  or may be utilized for customizing one of the configurable customization layers A-N already positioned on top of the core program . It should be noted that any desired number (e.g. 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 50 or more, etc.) of configurable customization layers A-N may be utilized for updating the core program . In this way, updates to the core program  may be provided between long product releases of the core product , thus more efficiently supplying updates to the core program .","In addition, the core product may be customized  for particular users in a way that would not necessarily be provided by the core product  itself. Furthermore, utilizing the configurable customization layers A-N, customizations made to the core product  may be maintained regardless of whether further updates are made.","More illustrative information will now be set forth regarding various optional architectures and uses in which the foregoing system  may or may not be implemented, per the desires of the user. It should be strongly noted that the following information is set forth for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. Any of the following features may be optionally incorporated with or without the exclusion of other features described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["400","400","400"]},"As shown in operation , a first customization layer that is positioned on top of a core program is configured. Thus, the first customization layer may include a layer capable of being placed on top of the core program and capable functioning with the core program. As an option, the first customization layer may include an extension layer that is capable of being configured by a user of the core program.","In other embodiments, the first customization layer may include a generic customization layer. The first customization layer may also provide any desired type of functionality to be utilized by the core program. The first customization layer may be user-configured prior to placing the customization layer on top of the core program, but of course may also be user-configured after being placed on top of the core program.","The first customization layer may be positioned on top of the core program by placing an exit point in the core program that is associated with the first customization layer. The core program may therefore utilize the functionality of the customization layer by way of the exit point. Of course, however, the core program may utilize the first customization layer in any desired manner.","Furthermore, a second customization layer that is positioned on top of the first customization layer may be configured, as shown in operation . Thus, the second customization layer may be capable of being placed on top of the first customization layer and therefore on top of the core program. In this way, the second customization layer may be capable of functioning with the core program and\/or the first customization layer.","In addition, the second customization layer may include an extension layer that is capable of being configured by a user of the core program. As with the first customization layer, the second customization may include a generic customization layer or a specific customization layer, in other embodiments. The second customization layer may also provide any desired type of functionality to be utilized by the core program and\/or the first customization layer.","The second customization layer may be positioned on top of the first customization layer by placing an exit point in the first customization layer and\/or core program that is associated with the second customization layer. The first customization layer and\/or core program may therefore utilize the functionality of the second customization layer by way of the exit point. Of course, however, the first customization layer may utilize the second customization layer in any desired manner. In this way, extensions of functionality may be provided to the core program utilizing customization layers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-4"],"b":["500","500","500"]},"As shown in operation , a core product is installed. The core product may be installed on any desired device. In addition, the core product may be installed in any desired manner (e.g. utilizing a core product embodied on a physical medium, downloading the core product from a network, etc.).","A first customization layer is then received, as shown in operation . The first customization layer may also be received in any manner (e.g. utilizing a physical medium, downloading from a network, etc.). The first customization layer may be received for customizing at least a portion of the core product. Thus, the first customization layer may be received at any time after the installation of the of the core product.","Further, the first customization layer is positioned on top of the core product, as shown in operation . Thus, the first customization layer may be a layer to the core product. The first customization layer may then be packaged, as shown in operation .","The first customization layer may be packaged as a product. The package may include a software development package (SDK), for example. Thus, the first customization layer package may include APIs, programming tools, documentation, etc. In addition, javadocs and\/or doxygen may be utilized for generating documentation for such package.","The first customization layer package may be provided such that further customizations may be made to the package. Such further customizations may be made utilizing additional customization layers. In particular, an additional customization layer may be applied to the first customization layer package, as described below.","It may then be determined whether a next customization layer is to be applied to a previous customization layer in order to customize the core product and\/or any previous customization layer, as shown in decision . If it is determined that a next customization layer is to be applied, the next customization layer is received for reasons described below, as shown in operation .","The next customization layer is positioned on top of the previous customization layer, as shown in operation . The packaging of previous customization layers results in such previous customization layers being represented as a core layer to the next customization layer. In this way, any next customization layers may be applied directly to a single package of all previous customization layers.","Once a next customization layer is positioned on top of a previous customization layer, all previous customization layer(s) and the next customization layer may be packaged. Note operation . As an option, such next customization layer may wrap an SDK associated with the previous customization layer(s). Accordingly, a single SDK that includes all previous customization layers and such next customization layer may be presented to a subsequent customization layer. Furthermore, treating each customization layer as a separate package may allow such customization layer to be associated with its own timeline such that subsequent customization layers are not necessarily reliant on any of the previous customization layers.","Additional customization layers may therefore be created and received as desired to further customize a core product and any customization layers already applied to such core product. Moreover, each additional customization layer may be applied to a single package of previously applied customization layers.","While various embodiments have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not limitation. Thus, the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
