---
title: Method and system for physical verification using network segment current
abstract: A data processing system determines current information corresponding to a node included at a device design. Physical layout information corresponding to the node is received, the physical layout information including one or more layout geometries, the one or more layout geometries providing a circuit network. The circuit network may be partitioned into two or more network segments. A current conducted at a network segment is identified based on the current information. Information representative of dimensions and metal layer of a layout geometry included at the network segment is received. The computer determines that the current exceeds a predetermined maximum threshold, the predetermined maximum threshold determined based on the dimensions and metal layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08713498&OS=08713498&RS=08713498
owner: Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
number: 08713498
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110824
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure relates generally to integrated circuits, and more particularly design tools for integrated circuits.","Because of their complexity, integrated circuits, such as systems on a chip (SOCs), are typically designed using automated design tools, such as a computer-aided design (CAD) system. The CAD system can include automated processes to implement, verify, and improve performance, reliability, and manufacturability of the integrated circuit design. For example, to verify reliability of an integrated circuit design, the CAD system simulates the behavior of the device based on input stimuli and determines whether physical attributes of the device conform to design rule specifications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-12"},"A physical layout representation of a node can include a circuit network that can be further partitioned into two or more network segments. In an embodiment, signal information determined by electrical simulation of the device design can be used to determine current flow at each network segment. Current flow at each of the network segments can be evaluated to determine whether a current conducted at a respective network segment of a node exceeds a predetermined maximum threshold, the threshold based on characteristics of the segment, such as dimensions and metal layer of geometries of the segment.","To illustrate, an integrated circuit can include a collection of circuit components and corresponding nodes that couple selected circuit components. A circuit component can include a transistor, a logic gate, an analog circuit module, or another type of active or passive component. During operation of the integrated circuit, the nodes can conduct electrical signals between terminals of corresponding circuit components. If the amount of electrical current conducted by a node exceeds specified design guidelines, the integrated circuit can experience excessive wear that reduces functionality of the device. For example, excessive current density at a particular conductor of a node can result in excessive electromigration of metal atoms that make up the conductor. In another example, excessive currents carried by a conductor can result in heating or undesirable voltage drops that can adversely affect functionality of the integrated circuit. Identifying violations of the design guidelines can be computationally exhausting, and conventional design verification techniques rely on approximations and simplifications to reduce the time required to perform an analysis of a device design.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","110","130","140","150","110","120","120","120","120","120","121","122","123","140","121","120"]},"Application modules such as the layout extractor , the circuit simulator , and the ERC module  can include hardware or software modules. The application modules can be configured to manipulate and analyze device design information included at the design file  to transform a corresponding representation of the device in a desired way. During the design process, the representation of the device at the design file  can change as it evolves and matures. For example, based on simulations of the integrated circuit, the device design can be altered so that the device design complies with a specification. The changes to the device design can be reflected by corresponding changes to the design file  that can be evaluated by further simulation and testing. Once the design process is complete, the device design can be used to manufacture the integrated circuit. For example, the layout database  can include a representation of an integrated circuit design that includes information relating to physical photo-mask features that can be provided to an integrated circuit manufacturing facility. In one embodiment, the application modules , , and  can include hardware modules, software modules, or a combination thereof. Each application module can be executed as described herein to perform an associated design function. The design system  can include additional application modules (not shown at ) that are associated with other aspects of the design process. For example, the design system  can include a layout verification module operable to identify and validate a correspondence between information included at the netlist  and physical information stored at the layout database , a static timing analysis module to verify that a device based on the device design can operate at a desired speed, and the like.","The layout extractor  is an application module operable to translate physical information stored at the layout database  into electrical circuit parameters and circuit components, including capacitance and resistance associated with physical elements of the design. For example, the layout extractor  can determine the resistance and capacitance associated with one or more portions of a node, and parasitic capacitances resulting from adjacent circuit features. The layout extractor can include a commercially available extractor, a proprietary extractor, or a combination thereof. Furthermore, the layout extractor  can provide highly accurate results based on three-dimensional modeling, or it can provide approximated or estimated results to reduce operational runtime.","The circuit simulator  is an application module operable to simulate the electrical operation of a device design represented by the design file . For example, the circuit simulator  can verify the device will operate at an intended frequency. In addition, the circuit simulator  is configured to determine signal information including current and voltage information associated with operation of the device and to store the signal information at the signal database  at the design file . In an embodiment, the signal information includes an amount of current sinked or sourced through terminals of circuit components and voltage levels at terminals. For example, circuit component terminals can include transistor source\/drain terminals and gate terminals, or can include input\/output terminals of another device, module, or collection of modules. In an embodiment, a representation of the device provided to the circuit simulator  can includes the netlist , which is further annotated with electrical circuit parameters provided by the layout extractor . The circuit simulator  can include a commercially available circuit simulator, such as an HSPICE simulator, a proprietary circuit simulator, or a combination thereof, to simulate the operation of the configuration of circuit components and other modules represented in the design file .","The ERC module  is an application module operable to determine whether a device design is in compliance with a set of electrical and physical design guidelines. The ERC module  receives the current information from the circuit simulator  and layout information from the layout database, and determines whether the device design is in compliance with a set of design rules and specifications. The ERC module  includes a partitioner  and an electromigration analyzer . The partitioner  receives layout information from the layout database . The layout information includes layout geometries associated with nodes of the device design, the layout geometries providing a circuit network that interconnects corresponding circuit components. The partitioner  can conditionally partition selected nodes into two or more individual network segments based on predefined partitioning protocols. For example, a node can be partitioned into a plurality of network segments wherein each network segment represents a single metal polygon or a single via. Alternatively, the partitioning may be done based on changes in a dimension, such as width, or notches, turns, bends, and intersections of two or more metal polygons. As used herein, the term via describes an electrically conductive contact used to electrically connect discrete materials, such as different metal layers, semiconductor layers, and the like. The ERC module  can include other modules (not shown at ) operable to verify that the device represented by the design file  satisfies electrical specifications and is compliant with functional, reliability, and manufacturing guidelines. The operation of the partitioner  can be better understood with reference to  and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","200","201","210","202","211","201","212","202","200","121"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["210","301","303","305","302","304","211","212","211","201","212","202","122","121"]},"The partitioner  is operable to partition the circuit network corresponding to node B into a plurality of network segments. For example, the partitioner  can partition node B into five discrete network segments corresponding to each of the metal polygons and via objects, -. Note that the partitioning operation performed by the partitioner  does not affect the corresponding layout physical information, but rather provides an additional design representation of the layout information. The partitioner  operates based on a predetermined partitioning protocol. In an embodiment, an interconnect node can be divided into discrete segments based on algorithms that take into account how current will be conducted at specific portions of the node. For example, node B can be partitioned into five network segments (-) based on determining that the current carrying capabilities of each segment is different than that of an adjacent segment. Portions of a node adjacent to a branch are typically segregated because signal current can merge or divide at such a structure.","The partitioner  can partition a node based on another partitioning protocol, wherein node B can be partitioned into a greater or a fewer number of network segments. For example, in the event that node B were implemented as a single complex polygon of metal at a single metal layer that includes two ninety degree bends (and thus having a footprint similar to the route illustrated at ), the partitioner  can be configured to partition node B into five network segments including the individual rectilinear metal polygons representing straight portions of the interconnect and two portions representing the ninety degree bend portions of the interconnect. In an embodiment, layout geometries that introduce current crowding can be isolated to an individual partition, for example, a bend in a route at a single metal layer or a constriction in the width of a route. In another embodiment, features exhibiting a predetermined degree of dimensional inhomogeneity can be isolated to an individual partition.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","100","130","410","122","121","420","420","130","130","121"]},"The extracted layout parameters  (or the netlist  annotated with the extracted parameters) can be provided to the circuit simulator . The extraction can be performed at various levels of abstraction and granularity to optimize either accuracy or run time performance. The circuit simulator  simulates the operation of the device design and provides signal information including source currents and sink voltages  associated with selected circuit components. The signal information can be stored at the signal database . For example, the circuit simulator can determine source currents provided at the outputs of circuit components that provide a signal to a circuit node (such as the output of inverter  of ), and sink voltages received at inputs of circuit components that receive signals conducted by a circuit node (such as the input of inverter  of ). The signal information stored at the signal database , physical information stored at the layout database , and the netlist  are provided to the ERC module , which can verify the operational integrity of a device design based on the device design information. The operation of the ERC module  will be better understood with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"],"b":["201","201","501","503","502","504","501","502","503","504","501","502"]},"During operation, the inverter  is capable of performing a logical negation operation. For example, a signal received at node A can transition from a voltage corresponding to a logic-high state and a voltage corresponding to a logic-low state. In response, the P-channel transistor is configured to conduct and the N-channel transistor is deactivated, causing a source current X to charge a capacitance associated with the node B, and thus causing a voltage at the node B to transition from a logic-low state to a logic-high state. At another time, a signal received at node A can transition from a voltage corresponding to a logic-low state and a voltage corresponding to a logic-high state. In response, the P-channel transistor is deactivated and the N-channel transistor is configured to conduct, discharging the capacitance associated with the node B, and thus causing a voltage at the node B to transition from a logic-high state to a logic-low state.","The circuit simulator  is configured to simulate the operation of a circuit including the inverter  and collect signal information associated with the node A and the node B. For example, the circuit simulator  can determine a magnitude of the current X and of the current Y, as well as voltages at circuit nodes, such as a sink voltage Z at node A. In an embodiment, the circuit simulator  can calculate and store a maximum current associated with each current source realized over time in response to simulated operation of the device design, or a portion thereof. In another embodiment, the circuit simulator can calculate and store a representation of an RMS current, and RMS voltage, or other signal parameters. As illustrated at , a single output terminal can be associated with more than one source current. Note that the direction of current conducted at the node B is different depending on whether the node B is transitioning to a logic-high state or to a logic-low state. For simplicity, the sink voltage Z is shown at the input of the inverter  at node A, however it will be appreciated that corresponding sink voltages can be determined at inputs of other circuit components, for example, at inputs to circuit components that receive signals from the node B.","The circuit simulator  can simulate the operation of a circuit using comprehensive and detailed design information or based on estimated or approximated information. Furthermore, a simulation algorithm utilized by the circuit simulator can range from a highly-accurate simulation algorithm to less-accurate, but time-efficient, algorithms. The accuracy of simulated source currents and sink voltages can be increased if the circuit representation being simulated includes parasitic resistance and capacitance information corresponding to signal interconnects and other circuit components. In an embodiment, the circuit simulator can include HSPICE. For example, the node B connecting the output of the inverter  to the input of the inverter  can include a long circuitous route having significant capacitance and\/or significant resistance, which can increase or decrease a maximum current supplied by a current source, such as the current source X. The circuit simulator can be provided with stimulus information corresponding to inputs of a device design that is being simulated. The stimulus information can include estimations of probable input stimuli, or can include highly accurate stimuli provided by the simulation of functional or logic models of the device design. The circuit simulator  can determine signal information corresponding to one or more modes of operation of a device and corresponding to one or more operating conditions. For example, the circuit simulator  can characterize the operation of a device design that is operating at various supply voltages, temperatures, frequencies, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","601","140","121","130","602","123","603","121","122"]},"The flow proceeds to block  where polygons associated with each circuit connection are grouped together to provide a complete circuit network. For example, a single node at the netlist  can be implemented using more than one layout polygon representing multiple metal layers, vias, connections to transistor fingers, signal branches, parallel connections, and the like. The flow proceeds to block  where, for each circuit network, a geometry engine calculates currents conducted at each branch of the circuit network. For example, signal information including current sources and sink voltages stored at the signal database can be retrieved and used to simulate how electrical current is conducted and distributed throughout a circuit interconnect. The flow proceeds to block  where one or more electrical rule checks are performed on each circuit interconnect based on the network currents. In an embodiment, the electrical rule check identifies electro-migration violations. The operation of the ERC module  can be better understood with reference to  below. The flow proceeds to block  where a device design can be revised to correct for violations identified by the electrical rule check. For example, circuit and\/or layout features can be modified to correct a design rule violation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIGS. 8 and 9"],"b":["700","700","606","700","701","702"]},"The flow proceeds to block  where individual network segments are discarded based on currents conducted by the segment and based on a metal layer or other physical attribute of the segment. For example, the ERC module  can determine that a current conducted at a particular network segment is too small to result in electromigration at that segment. In an embodiment, the discarding process is not based on the width of a metal used to implement a metal segment and is described below with reference to . A similar discarding process can be applied for vias as well. The flow proceeds to block  where a current density is determined for each network segment that was not discarded at block , the current density determined based on the dimensions of the features included at the segment and based on a metal layer used to implement the features. In an embodiment, violation of electromigration design rules is determined based on a length and a width of a metal feature and the current conducted by the metal feature. The flow proceeds to block  where a current density associated with each via is determined. Generally, each via constitutes a unique network segment. The flow proceeds to block  where network segments having electromigration violations are identified. The partitioning of an interconnect network can be better understood with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","800","811","812","813","814","801","802","803","804","805","806","807","801","802","803","802","801","811","812","801","802","803","804","813","805","814","806","807","800","122","802","150","122","123"]},"In an embodiment, the vias - introduce boundary features at which the node  can be partitioned into individual network segments. For example, each of metal segments - and each of vias - can be partitioned into unique individual network segments. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the node  can be partitioned into a fewer or into a greater number of portions based on an alternative partitioning protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["900","800","900","901","902","903","904","905","906","907","911","912","913","914","801","807","811","814","801","901","811","911","150","122","123","152","140"]},"The electromigration analyzer  is configured to determine whether excessive current is conducted at each network segment based on the dimensions of features that make up the network segment. For example, as illustrated at , the metal segment  conducts a current T. The layout database  includes dimensional information associated with the metal segment , including a width of the metal route and information identifying the metal level used to implement the metal segment . A current density at the metal segment  is a function of the cross sectional area of the metal segment and the current conducted by the segment. The cross sectional area of a metal segment can be determined by multiplying the width of the metal segment by the thickness of the metal, the thickness generally related to the metal level used to implement the segment. Excessive current density at a conductor can increase the rate at which electromigration can occur, possibly limiting the operational lifetime of the device. An amount of electromigration that can occur in a metal conductor is also dependent on the length of a metal segment. The width and length of each metal segment can be stored at the layout database . Electromigration design rules can be expressed as a maximum current density that can be supported by a metal interconnect having a particular length. In an embodiment, a lookup table can be used to improve the runtime efficiency of the electromigration analyzer .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["1000","1000","703","706","1000","1001","1002","1003","1001","1002","1003","1000","1010","1011","1012","1010","2","1011","1","2","1012","1","1013","1014","1015","1016","1017","1018","1019"],"sub":["X","Y","Z","X","Y ","Z"]},"A maximum permissible current that can be carried by a metal segment of a particular level and length is specified by an equation at each respective row. For example with reference to row , a metal segment implemented using metal level Mand having a length greater than or equal to the length L, a maximum current that can be conducted by the segment without experiencing excessive electromigration is provided by the equation:\n\n0\u00d7(1)\n\nwhere D is a current per unit width, W is the length of the metal segment, and BT is a barrier thickness associated with metal level M. A barrier layer associated with the integrated circuit fabrication process causes the final effective electrical width of a metal line to be less than the drawn dimensions specified in the layout database , and this phenomenon is corrected for by each equation. Current per unit width (D, D, D, D, and D) can vary based on metal level. An amount of current that can be reliably carried by a network segment can be dependent on the length of the segment. For example, a segment having a length that is less than a value L may reliably conduct more current than a segment whose length is greater than the value L. The value K at row  can be a constant having a predetermined value that is greater than one.\n","Electromigration analyzer  can determine an amount of current carried by a metal segment as described above, and compare this value to a maximum allowed current determined using the table . If the current determined by the electromigration analyzer exceeds the current specified by the table , the particular metal segment is considered in violation of the electromigration design rule, and the design can be modified to correct the violation. For example, the width of the metal segment can be increased; another metal level can be substituted for the existing level; circuit components can be modified to reduce the amount of current conducted by the segment; or another remedy can be implemented.","As shown at the table , a maximum allowed current that can be conducted by a particular metal segment is dependent on a respective length of the segment. In particular, a segment having a length that is less than a predetermined value may be capable of conducting a greater amount of current than a segment having a length that is longer than this value. This is due to a physical phenomenon known as the Blech effect. The column  specifies various ranges of segment length and thereby allows the electromigration analyzer  to select a suitable equation from the equations at the column  based on the length of a particular segment.","The table  also can be used to discard metal segments from further consideration based on determining that the current conducted by a segment is less than an amount of current that can permissibly be conducted by a wire that is longer than the length L as determined by the table, while assuming the width of the segment is equal to a minimum width design rule corresponding to the particular metal level of the segment. Rows , , , and  of the table correspond to metal segments having a length greater than or equal to the length L, and are therefore capable of safely conducting the least amount of current for a particular segment width. For example, with regard to a metal segment of level M, the equation provided at the row  reduces to:\n\n=min=0\u00d7(min\u22121)\n\nwhere the value Wmin corresponds to a minimum (design rule legal) width for a respective metal level. Therefore, if a current conducted by a segment is less than the amount Idc-min, the segment will not violate an electromigration rule, no matter what the actual dimensions of the segment may be. In an embodiment, a corresponding width of each network segments can be considered when determining whether to discard a particular network segment.\n","During operation, the electromigration analyzer  can use a circuit simulator to determine an amount of current that is conducted by a particular metal segment. The electromigration analyzer  can determine whether the current carried by the segment can possibly exceed a maximum current specified by an electromigration design rule without considering the actual length and width of the segment (for example, without obtaining physical dimensions of the segment from the layout database ).","In some instances, devices that are being designed using the integrated circuit design system  may be too large to process and analyze as a single entity. Therefore, a device design can be divided into individual portions, each portion of a manageable size. In an embodiment, the individual portions can be configured in a hierarchical manner, and application modules such as the layout extractor  and the circuit simulator  operate on each portion separately or can operate on a group of portions simultaneously. Information associated with each portion can be stored in a manner that facilitates subsequent analysis of selected portions of the device design, or of the device design in its entirety.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1101","120","120","1102","1103","1104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1200","1200","1200"]},"In a networked deployment, the processing system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server-client user network environment, or as a peer processing system in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment. Further, while a single processing system  is illustrated, the term \u201csystem\u201d shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub-systems that individually or jointly execute a set, or multiple sets, of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.","The processing system  may include one or more processors , e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), or both. Moreover, the processing system  can include a main memory  and a static memory  that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown, the processing system  may further include a video display unit , such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), an organic light emitting diode (OLED), a flat panel display, a solid state display, or a cathode ray tube (CRT). Additionally, the processing system  may include an input device , such as a keyboard, and a cursor control device , such as a mouse. The processing system  can also include a disk drive unit , a signal generation device , such as a speaker, and a network interface device .","In a particular embodiment, as depicted in , the disk drive unit  may include a computer readable medium  in which one or more sets of instructions , e.g. software, can be embedded. Further, the instructions  may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment, the instructions  may reside completely, or at least partially, within the main memory , the static memory , and\/or within the processor  during execution by the processing system . The main memory  and the processor  also may include computer readable media. The network interface device  can provide connectivity to a network , e.g., a wide area network (WAN), a local area network (LAN), or other network.","In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure, the methods described herein may be implemented, in whole or in part, by software programs executable by the processing system . The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable storage device (e.g., the main memory , the static memory , or the drive unit ) that includes instructions  or receives and provides instructions  for execution. Further data representative of a device design can be stored in one or more of the computer readable storage devices for access by the processing system  during execution of the instructions  so as to implement the methods described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1300","1300","1301","1302","1303","1304","1305","1306"]},"While the computer readable storage device is shown to be a single storage device, the term \u201ccomputer readable storage device\u201d includes a single storage device or multiple storage devices, such as a centralized or distributed database, and\/or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201ccomputer readable storage device\u201d shall also include any storage device that is capable of storing a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a processing system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.","In a particular non-limiting, exemplary embodiment, the computer readable storage device can include a solid-state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non-volatile read-only memories. Further, the computer readable storage device can be a random access memory or other volatile re-writeable memory. Additionally, the computer readable storage device can include a magneto-optical or optical medium, such as a disk or tapes or other storage device.","In an alternative embodiment, dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits, programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and processing systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules, or as portions of an application-specific integrated circuit. Accordingly, the present system encompasses software, firmware, and hardware implementations.","In this document, relational terms such as \u201cfirst\u201d and \u201csecond\u201d, and the like, may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual relationship or order between such entities or actions or any actual relationship or order between such entities and claimed elements. The term \u201canother\u201d, as used herein, is defined as at least a second or more. The terms \u201cincluding\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, or any variation thereof, as used herein, are defined as comprising.","Other embodiments, uses, and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosure disclosed herein. The specification and drawings should be considered as examples only, and the scope of the disclosure is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.","Note that not all of the activities or elements described above in the general description are required, that a portion of a specific activity or device may not be required, and that one or more further activities may be performed, or elements included, in addition to those described. Still further, the order in which activities are listed are not necessarily the order in which they are performed.","Also, the concepts have been described with reference to specific embodiments. However, one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly, the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense, and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure.","Benefits, other advantages, and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However, the benefits, advantages, solutions to problems, and any feature(s) that may cause any benefit, advantage, or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical, required, or essential feature of any or all the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure may be better understood, and its numerous features and advantages made apparent to those skilled in the art by referencing the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
