---
title: Method and aparatus for sharing internet assets or content URLs via a second display device
abstract: A user can share Internet assets or content URLs via a second display device with other Internet content service users. Thus, the other users will be able to view the same content on their own internet protocol televisions (IPTV), as first display devices, without the need to search for the content in the content providing service. When the shared content is URLs, the recipient can even preview the content from the URL on the second display device before sending it to the recipient's internet protocol television (IPTV).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08589986&OS=08589986&RS=08589986
owner: Sony Network Entertainment International LLC
number: 08589986
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111215
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM TO PRIORITY","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of previously filed provisional application Ser. No. 61\/441,852, filed on Feb. 11, 2011, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.","1. Field of the Invention","This application relates generally to controlling an Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) using a second device. Embodiments of the present invention allow a user to share Internet video linked contents or content URLs via a second display device with other users or subscribers. Thus, other users or recipients will be able to view the same content on their own IPTV (internet protocol TVs) without the need to search for the contents on the Internet service itself. When content URLs are shared, the recipient can preview the contents on the second display device before sending it to his\/her own IPTV (first display device).","2. Background Discussion","Internet access through TVs is typically provided by essentially programming the TV (often referred to as an Internet Protocol TV, or IPTV) as though it were a computer executing a browser. Such internet access is thus uncontrolled except as a firewall or filtering program might block certain sites.","As understood herein, uncontrolled Internet access may not be desirable in the context of a TV. A firewall or filtering program may not always be installed on the TV and even when one is installed, access remains much more uncontrolled than conventional TV programming traditionally has expected. Also, a locally installed filter can be unloaded or defeated by a user.","Accordingly, uncontrolled Internet access has several drawbacks. From a viewer's standpoint, exposure to inappropriate subject matter particularly when young viewers are watching is one concern; a much lower threshold of quality screening is another. That is, while many TV shows might not be widely considered as \u201cquality\u201d shows, nonetheless a TV program is usually much more selectively screened than, say, an Internet video. The expectations of TV viewers for such higher level quality screening as a consequence cannot be met by simply providing unfettered Internet access through the TV. Furthermore, TV-related entities, from content providers, manufacturers, and carriers, in most cases derive no benefit from the extension of TV to the Internet, such as e.g., might be derived, as understood herein, by pay-per-view based on one or more options.","IPTV is capable of receiving services delivered using the architecture and networking methods of the Internet Protocol Suite as well as services delivered using a broadcasting network. IPTV services include, for example, live television, time-shifted programming, video on demand (VOD), and on-line transactions.","When users browse content on the IPTV (first display device), frequently users will want to share interesting content (IPTV and\/or Internet) with other users\/friends. Current Internet accessible systems on IPTVs do not allow sharing contents among other IPTV users. Additionally, even if IPTVs allows content sharing, it is difficult to do it across different platforms, e.g. Blu-ray\u00ae disk players (BDP) and digital tv's (DTV) because of different platform software. Thus, it would be an advancement in the art to have an easy way to share content so that it is accessible, easy to share and is uniform for users.","Sharing content is easy on the internet between personal computers (PC) since they use the same software platforms. However, for other platforms, such as Blu-ray\u00ae disc players (BDP) and digital tv's (DTV), a challenge arises in terms of synchronization and software uniformity.","The present invention allows a user to share interne contents\/assets or content URLs via a second display device with other IPTV users or subscribers. This means that the other users will be able to view the same content on their own IPTVs without the need to search for the content in the IPTV content providing service itself.","When Internet content URLs are shared between users, the recipient of the content URL can preview it on the second display device itself before sending it to the IPTV (first display device).","Accordingly, one embodiment of the present invention is directed to a system (\u201cthe system\u201d) for sharing content on an internet protocol TV (IPTV) system. The system includes one or more first display devices, displaying content. One or more second display devices (control displaying devices), each of which has a list of recipients associated with the IPTV system, are used for sharing the content. The second display devices also are able to access the Internet, by using a web browser. The system also includes a server device that has contents for display on the first display devices and which receives, from the second display devices, a request to share content and a list of selected recipients to share the content therewith. Furthermore, the server device includes a mapping device that is used to map all recipients in the selected list of recipients with at least one second display device associated with each selected recipient such that the content is available to the selected recipients. The server device may also includes a notifying device that notifies the second display device of the selected recipients that content is available for viewing on the recipients first display device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the system described above, wherein when content to be shared are content URLs, the second display device of the selected recipients are capable of previewing the content on the recipient's second display device before the second display device of the recipient sends the content to the recipient's first display device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the system described above, wherein the content to be shared includes interne content and content URL's.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the system described above, wherein the server device is a content provider server for IPTV devices.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the system described above, wherein the second display device includes a selecting device which selects at least one recipient from the list of recipients.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the system described above, wherein the first display device is an internet protocol television (IPTV).","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed, to the system described above, wherein the second display device includes at least one of a cell phone, laptop computer and personal computer.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a control display device for a content providing system having IPTVs (internet protocol TVs) as first display devices. The control display device includes a storing device storing a list of recipients for sharing contents (the recipients being associated with the content providing system). The control display device also includes a web browsing device that browses contents in the content providing system. Additionally, the control display device includes a sending device that sends a share request to a server and sends therewith at least one recipient from the list of recipients for sharing contents. The control display device includes a receiving device that receives notification from the server that content is available for sharing and a forwarding device forwarding the content to one of the first display devices for displaying content.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the control display device, wherein the content to be shared includes interne content having content URL's and content only available on IPTV devices using IPTV protocol.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the control display device, wherein when content to be shared are content URLs, the control display device of the recipients are capable of previewing the content on the recipient's control display device before the control display device of the recipient sends the content to the recipient's first display device which is independent of the control device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the control display device, wherein the server device is a content provider server.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the control display device, that also includes a playback device which plays back content when the shared content is a content URL.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the control display device, wherein the control display device being one of a cell phone, laptop computer and a personal computer.","In another embodiment of the control display device, when content to be shared are IPTV content, the control display device of the recipients are not capable of previewing the content on the recipient's control display device before sending the content to the recipient's first display device which is independent of the control display device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a server for a content providing system. The content providing system includes internet protocol televisions (IPTVs) as first display devices and second display devices which designates content for sharing. The server includes a receiving device that receives, from one of the second display devices, a request to share content and a list of recipients to share the content therewith. The recipients are associated with the content providing system. The server also includes a mapping device that maps the recipients on the list with their respective second devices. The server also includes a notification device to notify the second devices of the recipients on the list mapped by the mapping device that contents are available for sharing.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the server, wherein the content to be shared includes internet content having content URL's and content only available to IPTV devices using IPTV protocol.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the server, wherein when content to be shared are content URLs, the second display device of the recipients are capable of previewing the content on the recipient's second device before the second display device of the recipient sends the content to the recipient's first display device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the server, wherein the server device is a content provider server.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the server, wherein the second display device includes a web browser and is one of a cell phone, laptop computer and a personal computer.","It is noted that in this disclosure and particularly in the claims and\/or paragraphs, terms such as \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprised,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d and the like can have the meaning attributed to it in U.S. patent law; that is, they can mean \u201cincludes,\u201d \u201cincluded,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d \u201cincluding, but not limited to\u201d and the like, and allow for elements not explicitly recited. Terms such as \u201cconsisting essentially of\u201d and \u201cconsists essentially of\u201d have the meaning ascribed to them in U.S. patent law; that is, they allow for elements not explicitly recited, but exclude elements that are found in the prior art or that affect a basic or novel characteristic of the invention. These and other embodiments are disclosed or are apparent from and encompassed by, the following description. As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent\u201d and \u201csystem\u201d are intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the detailed description describes various embodiments of the present invention for illustration purposes and embodiments of the present invention include the methods described and may be implemented using one or more apparatus, such as processing apparatus coupled to electronic media. Embodiments of the present invention may be stored on an electronic media (electronic memory, RAM, ROM, EEPROM) or programmed as computer code (e.g., source code, object code or any suitable programming language) to be executed by one or more processors operating in conjunction with one or more electronic storage media.","Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using one or more processing devices, or processing facilities, or processing modules. The processing devices, or facilities or modules, may be coupled such that portions of the processing and\/or data manipulation may be performed at one or more processing devices, facilities or modules and shared or transmitted between a plurality of processing devices, facilities or modules.","An IPTV device may be used to control home appliances through IPTV. These home appliances include, for example, video players, game players, home theater systems, digital video recorders, air conditioners, and etc. Household electrical appliances and audio-visual apparatuses, such as video cassette recorders (VCRs), televisions, air conditioners, and lighting apparatuses, may be furnished with remote controls. These remote controls each have operation units and functions specific to each apparatus. In order to control home appliances, a dedicated remote control may be placed in a vicinity of an associated home appliance. IPTV provides the ability to integrate different functions or different applications into a single control device to control multiple appliances. This single control device may be a smart phone, a digital personal assistant, a personal computer, lap top computer, tablet, or other device with adequate processing and\/or storage capabilities. The single control device may transmit control signals through a public network or Internet or other network of operatively coupled computers, or processing devices or modules to an IPTV device, which uses the control command to control home appliances.","An IPTV device can access a vast pool of contents provided by numerous content providers. The IPTV device may also be used to control further distribution of content that has been provided by a third party to the IPTV device so that unauthorized access is prevented. Typically, IPTV is controlled by a single input device and has a single display device. As a shared device that is viewed by several users it is helpful to permit this sharing without excessively raising hardware costs.","Accordingly, a method is provided to enable a user browsing content on a second device to have their selection played by a first device. The user can then continue to browse the content on any number of second devices without interrupting the content that is playing on the first device. The first device may be an IPTV. The second device may be another electronic device. The method include an architecture design and implementation that allows a user to navigate, browse, and search content on a second device that may be a consumer electronic device such as a Sony Ericsson\u00ae smart phone, VAIO\u00ae PC, VAIO\u00ae laptop, MYLO\u00ae, personal computer, or other apparatus with sufficient processing and storage capability, or any device with a web browser. Concurrently, while a user is using the first device, another user can perform these activities on the second device and send a media selection to the first device of the user's choice for playback.","A second device may act as a visual aid to the IPTV, but does not require additional investments by the user because it makes use of a device (such as a cellphone, laptop, etc) which most users would typically already have in their possession. The second device executes a program that allows the second device to act as the visual aid. It is a low cost solution which opens up a huge window of business and technical opportunities. It is a favorable complement to the IPTV because the device has strengths in data entry, processing power and user experience in content management. Thus, users will be able to use their personal devices, such as a cellphone, to browse content in their own language, perform data entry, search for content, manage their content, perform transactions and personalize their experience without disturbing the big screen of a first device. Users only send the content for playback on the IPTV when they are ready to watch it; and playback of proprietary content does not occur on the non-authentic device so security risks are minimized. The program may be written in HTML, which can be loaded by any device with a browser, hence not limited to only a small set of compatible devices.","An IPTV system typically includes an IPTV device being and IPTV client and including an IPTV client processor controlling a video display to present content thereon. The system also includes a second device including a control processor and a management server communicating with the IPTV client over the Internet. The management server and IPTV client communicate with at least one content server such that the content server provides audio video content to the IPTV client for presentation of the content on the video display of the IPTV client. The system further includes a proxy server communicating with the management server and the second device. The IPTV client sends login information to the management server which returns to the IPTV client an IPTV session token that may subsequently be presented by the IPTV client to a the content server to obtain content from the content server. The management server receives and stores a local IP address of the IPTV client. Responsive to the second device sending a request to the proxy server for an executable utility, the proxy server returns the utility to the second device.","Further, the second device, executing the utility, prompts a user to input to the second device login information. The proxy server, responsive to reception of correct login information from the second device, returns the local IP address of the IPTV client to the second device. The second device uses the local IPTV address to access the IPTV client directly to request information about the IPTV client, which information is returned from the IPTV client to the second device such that the local address of the IPTV client need not be globally addressable. Also the second device sends the information about the IPTV client to the proxy server, requesting a list of services available to the IPTV client from one or more content servers. The proxy server relays the request for a list of services to the management server, which returns the list to the proxy server, with the proxy server in turn sending the list to the second device for presentation of information on the video display.","Responsive to a user selection of an element on the list, the second device sends a request for a software asset corresponding to the element to the proxy server. The proxy server requests a service login of the content server providing the asset, and the content server provides to the proxy server a list of assets or categories or services which relays the list to the second device, which is presented on the video display of the second device so that the user can navigate to enter a selection. Responsive to the selection the second device sends a command to the IPTV client to play the selection.","Embodiments include the IPTV client requests of the management server information about the selection received from the second device. The information is returned from the management server to the IPTV client to enable the IPTV client to play content associated therewith. If desired, the proxy server can request of the content server a list of options, and the list is returned to the proxy server. Asset information may be requested by the IPTV client and returned thereto by the content server. Also, a service login received from the second device may be sent by the IPTV client to the content server and a service token returned to the IPTV client in response. When a list of contents is sent to the second device, URL of contents may be removed from the list. The second device requests a content using a unique identifier of the content, the proxy server or the management server may use the unique identifier of the content to locate a corresponding URL of the content. In this way, the second device may not obtain the URL of a content so that unauthorized distributions of content are effectively prevented.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, a consumer electronics device (CE) may act as a second device, which includes a housing holding a display, a network interface, and a processor controlling the display and communicating with the Internet through the network interface. An input device communicates with the processor. The processor executing logic includes sending login information to a proxy server, and receiving from the proxy server, responsive to reception thereby of correct login information, a local IP address of an IPTV client. The processor uses the local IPTV address to access the IPTV client directly to request information about the IPTV client, sending the information about the IPTV client to the proxy server. Responsive to sending the information about the IPTV client to the proxy server, the processor receives content information, presenting it on the display from which a user can select a selected content. The processor commands the IPTV client to play the selected content.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, a proxy server assembly includes at least one processor and at least one network interface communicating with the processor to establish communication between the processor and a wide area network.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, at least one computer readable storage medium is accessible to the processor and bears logic causing the processor to receive login information from a second device. Responsive to a determination that the login information is correct, the server sends to the second device a local IP address of an IPTV client associated with the login information. The server receives from the second device information about the IPTV client requesting a list of services available to the IPTV client from at least one content server and sends a request for the list of services to a management server. The proxy server receives from the management server the list and sends it to the second device for presentation of information on a video display thereof. The proxy server then receives from the second device a request for a software asset and responsive to the request for the software asset, requests a service login of the content server. The proxy server receives back from the content server a list of assets or categories or services and sends the list to the second device. In this way, the list can be presented on a video display of the second device so that a user can navigate to enter a selection to command the IPTV client to play the selection.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, a first device is connected with a plurality of electronic devices. A second device may transmit control commands to the first device using a communication network or interne to control the plurality of electronic devices.","Referring to , an IPTV system may include a first device such as a client consumer electronics device , a\u2032second device such as another consumer electronics device , an electronic device  connected with the first device, a management server , a proxy server , and a content server . Each of the above devices and servers may have one or both a wired communication interface and a wireless communication interface.","The client consumer electronics device (CE)  such as a TV, game player, video disk player, camera, digital clock radio, mobile telephone, personal digital assistant, laptop computer, etc. includes a portable lightweight plastic housing  bearing a digital processor . The processor  can control a visual display  and an audible display  such as one or more speakers. The client consumer electronics device has a unique identifier that, without other means, is able to identify the client consumer electronics device within the IPTV system. The unique identifier may be assigned by a manufacturer or assigned by the management server when the client consumer electronics device is registered in the IPTV system.","To undertake present principles, the processor  may access one or more computer readable storage media  such as but not limited to RAM-based storage (e.g., a chip implementing dynamic random access memory (DRAM) or flash memory or disk based-storage. Software code implementing present logic executable by the CE device  may also be stored on one of the memories shown to undertake present principles.","The processor  can receive user input signals from various input devices including a remote control device , a point and click device such as a mouse, a keypad, etc. A TV tuner  may be provided in some implementations particularly when the CE device is embodied by a TV to receive TV signals from a source such as a set-top box, satellite receiver, cable head end, terrestrial TV signal antenna, etc. Signals from the tuner  are sent to the processor  for presentation on the display  and speakers .","As shown in , a network interface  such as a wired or wireless modem or wireless telephony transceiver communicates with the processor  to provide connectivity to a wide area network such as the Internet. Double arrows in  indicate network communication between components over wired and\/or wireless links. In this way, the client device  can communicate with a management server  on the Internet and with one or more content servers , also on the Internet and communicating with the management server .","If desired, each content server  may be associated with a respective proxy server  which interfaces the content server  with the device . The servers , ,  have respective processors , , accessing respective nontransitory computer readable storage media , , which may be, without limitation, disk-based and\/or solid state storage. The servers communicate with a wide area network such as the Internet via respective network interfaces , , and . It is to be understood in view of disclosure below that the CE device  particularly when implemented by a non-PC device such as a TV or game console or camera can communicate only with the management server  and with content servers  that appear on a service list provided to the processor  by the management server , with the service list not being modifiable by the processor .","The electronic device  is connected with the first device  using a cable such as a 1394 cable or a HDMI cable or using a wireless communication interface such as infrared signals. The electronic device  may be a digital video recorder, a Blu-ray player, a game player, an audio amplifier, or an air conditioner.","A second device  may be another consumer electronics device. The second device  may be another TV, game player, video disk player, camera, digital clock radio, mobile telephone, personal digital assistant, laptop computer, etc. The second device  with a housing  bears a digital processor  controlling a visual display  and an audible display  such as one or more speakers.","To undertake present principles, the second or control processor  may access one or more computer readable storage media  such as but not limited to RAM-based storage (e.g., a chip implementing dynamic random access memory (DRAM) or flash memory or disk-based-storage. Software code implementing present logic executable by the second or control device  may also be stored on one of the memories shown to undertake present principles. Further, the second or control processor  can receive user input signals from various input devices  including a point and click device such as a mouse, a keypad, etc. A network interface  such as a wired or wireless modem or wireless telephony transceiver communicates with the processor  to provide connectivity to a wide area network such as the Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIGS. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["a ","b "],"b":["2","36","12","30"]},"After the user selects a device, a list of services that the device is entitled to is provided. The user browses the services and their content, in his\/her preferred language, on the second device as though it is an actual IPTV device such as the first device. Similar transactions, like video rentals or home shopping purchases, can also be made on the second device. Standard IPTV system interaction with service providers occurs on the proxy server, hence creating a firewall between the second device and content providers. Additional navigation features, like hyper-linked text which will open a new window and the management of premium services from a single location, provide better user experience in this IPTV system.","When a piece of content is selected, it may be sent to the IPTV for playback in the form of a reference id which is used by the IPTV to retrieve playback information. By eliminating the presence of the content URL on the second device, the risk of leaking major proprietary information which could result in huge losses is reduced. During the time of playback, the user can continue to browse for other content and queue it for future playback. The IPTV needs to be addressable by the second device to perform playback, which is the case when both devices are on the same local network. The user can also switch devices and resume playback on a different device such as the electronic device  in  by going to the recently viewed list and selecting the last video played after switching control to that device.","A detailed description of each state in  is provided as follows.","At state  a user turns on the first device , hereafter referred to as the \u201cIPTV client\u201d for convenience. At state  the IPTV client sends login information including, e.g., user name and password to the management server , which at state  returns to the IPTV client an IPTV session token that may subsequently be presented by the IPTV client device to a participating content server  to obtain content from that server. Also, the management server  stores the local IP address of the IPTV client device . Alternatively, in another embodiment, the management server  does not return a token in response to receiving login information. Subsequently, no token is required to be presented by the IPTV client device to the participating content server  to obtain content.","At state , the user instantiates an IPTV client control utility on the second device . The utility executed on the second device , at state , sends a request to the proxy server , which returns () a response in a suitable language, such as hypertext markup language (HTML) with JavaScript for the second device  to execute in accordance with description below. This JavaScript\u00ae makes asynchronous JavaScript\u00ae and extended markup language (XML) (AJAX) calls to the proxy server and to the IPTV client to obtain information to control the IPTV client. In another embodiment, step  may not be necessary where other client application implementations are used, such as one where the client application is not downloaded each time it is used. It should also be noted that other technologies (e.g. C, C++, Perl\u00ae, and Flash\u00ae) can be used for the implementation of the client application and that neither HTML nor JavaScript\u00ae are required.","With more specificity, at state  using the JavaScript\u00ae, or alternatively, another method of implementing the client application, received from the proxy server  the second device  prompts the user to input to the second device  the user account information, such as account login information, including, e.g., the same user name and password that the IPTV client provided to the management server  at . Thus, the servers , ,  communicate necessary account information between them as needed to realize present principles.","At state  the proxy server , responsive to a correct user name and password from the second device , returns information about all IPTV clients  that are affiliated with the user account associated with the user name and password, including their local IP addresses which were stored by the management server  after login at  (and subsequently provided to the proxy server ).","When the user inputs to the second device  at state  a selected IPTV client device (in this example, the IPTV client device ) to use with the second device, the second device , using the local IP address returned at state , accesses the IPTV client device  directly. The second device  requests information about the IPTV client device  at state , including language information, rating information, digital rights management (DRM) information, etc. as desired, which information is returned from the IPTV client device  to the second device  at state . Since the second device  knows the IP address of the IPTV client device  and consequently communicates directly with the IPTV client device , the second device  communicates using a local web address of the IPTV client device  that need not be globally addressable, and may so communicate as long as the second device  and IPTV client device  are on the same local network.","At state  the second device  sends the client information received at state  to the proxy server , requesting a list of services available to the IPTV client device  from one or more of the content servers . The proxy server  relays the request for a list of services at state  to the management server , which returns the available services at state  to the proxy server . The proxy server  in turn sends the services list to the second device  at state  for presentation of available services on, e.g., the second device display .","State  indicates that a user can input (using, e.g., the second device input device ) a selection of a service on the list that was returned to the second device at state . In response, the second device , at state , sends a request for a list of content and categories to the proxy server  along with a service session token that the second device may have received from the content server  via the management server .","Responsive to the request, at state  the proxy server logs into the service of the content server  providing the selected service. At state  the content server  provides to the proxy server  service session token for the particular content server . State  indicates that if desired the proxy server  may also request a list of content and categories of the content server  and the list is returned at state  in, e.g., extended markup language (XML) format to the proxy server , which relays the assets, categories, services, etc. available for selection to the second device  at state . When the list of assets or the list of options is provided to the second device, the URL associated with each asset or options are removed. A reference ID is added to the list for each asset and options. The second device requests a particular asset or option by using the reference ID. In this way, the second device may not obtain any URL of the assets or options.","The content available for selection is presented on the second device display  so that the user can navigate () the display to enter () a selection. Responsive to the selection the second device  at state  sends a command to the IPTV client  to play the selection. At state  the IPTV client device  then requests service information of the management server  information about the service the selected asset is in, logging in to the service if required. The requested information is returned from the management server  to the IPTV client  at state , and when the IPTV client  receives the asset information it plays the asset at state . If the IPTV client is already playing content the new content commanded to be played by the second device is placed in a queue in the IPTV client and played when the current content completes.","Furthermore, the second device may command the IPTV client to play content by sending to the IPTV client over the home network commands coded as if they were sent from an infrared remote control (IR RC), specifically for example the commands may be in Sony Infrared Remote Control System (SIRCS) protocol. The second device may transmit command signals to the IPTV client to control the electronic device .","As shown in , if desired, temporally between states  and  a series of messages may be exchanged between the IPTV client  and the content server . For example, a request for content information may be made () by the IPTV client  and returned () by the content server . The above-described logging into the service may be relayed by the IPTV client  to the content server  at state  and a service session token returned to the IPTV client at state  along with the before-mentioned asset information. Also, a request of content information may be made () and a playlist returned to () the IPTV client device .","The software (e.g., JavaScript\u00ae\/HTML) that is downloaded at state  can be made available to all electronic vendors who wish their users to be able to navigate, browse, and search IPTV content on a second device. In an embodiment in which HTML is used, the software can be used on any client device with a web browser.","The following situations illustrate some scenarios where the second device complements the IPTV's shortcomings, hence providing better user experience for the IPTV user. For example, a group of friends is watching video clips on an IPTV. Each of them are browsing content on their own second display and queuing up selections. In another example, someone is looking for content on a particular subject. They are able to quickly type in search terms using their second device even when those terms contain characters not supported by their IPTV. In another example, a man is watching the end of a ball game on the IPTV while his wife uses a second display to select a movie for them to watch when the game ends. In another example, a user may be away from an IPTV, but the user may use a smart phone as the second device to browse contents and select a preferable content to be played on the IPTV.","In the above-identified situations, using a second device can provide many benefits, such as:\n\n","The second device provides an enhanced user experience of the IPTV without adding to the hardware costs of the unit. It makes data entry easy and allows users to browse content on the side. It is also a global solution which connects various IPTVs together in a cohesive manner through its potential of initiating playback across devices. It also provides the highest level of customer service to users through its one-click customer service feature, where users do not even need to provide any device information which can be difficult to retrieve in the event of a device breakdown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"300"},"Then the user browses an Internet video link (IVL). After that, the device data is requested from the second display and then the requested device data is sent from the proxy server to the second display device. Thus, the second display device can be used to display content even when the IPTV device is not available. The use of the second display device to display content depends on the display capabilities and display functions of the second display device. The second display sends a request using second display protocol to the proxy server, and then the proxy server requests to service provider, and the service provider responds. The proxy server responds using a second display protocol to the second display with the associated URL replaced with playlist ID.","After the user selects playback, the second display device attempts to send the playlist ID to the IPTV client device. When the IPTV client device is reachable, the playlist ID is received. Then the playlist ID is sent from the IPTV client to the proxy server, and playlist data is returned from the proxy server to the IPTV client. The IPTV client requests a content URL with playlist data of the service provider, and then the service provider returns the content URL for playback to the IPTV client device. When the IPTV client device is not reachable, the playlist ID is not received and the second display device notifies the user that the IPTV client device is not reachable. The second display device stores the Playlist ID for a later attempt at sending to the IPTV client device.","In another embodiment, the second display device may inform a server of the playlist ID and when the IPTV device is connected to the server, may receive the request even when the IPTV device and the second display device are on separate local networks and cannot address each other. In this case, the IPTV device may still not be reachable, as in a case where the IPTV device may not be connected to a power supply, and the request is queued at the server to be sent at a later time when the IPTV device is reachable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":"400"},"The process begins in step  in which the user turns on IPTV client device. After the IPTV device is registered with the management server, or authenticated with the management server, as shown in step , the management server starts the session in step . Then in step  the user turns on the second display, and, when necessary, requests for second display web application to a proxy server, as shown in step . The request for the second display application is optional and is used only when desired. When requested, the web application is loaded onto second display in step . In step  the user logs into the account, which is the account the IPTV is registered. In step  authentication request is sent from the second display to the proxy server. In step  the proxy server verifies credentials with the management server, and then in step  the management server confirms credentials with the proxy server. In step , authentication is completed. It is an embodiment of the present invention that the server in steps  and  may be in the same server. Alternatively, there may be more than two servers splitting the server tasks.","In step  the user browses the Internet video link (IVL) and the user is presented with a list of IPTV devices. In step  the device data is requested by the second display device and then in step  the requested device data is sent by the proxy server to the second display device. In step  the second display sends a request using a second display protocol to proxy server, and then in step  the proxy server requests from proxy server and the service provider responds, as shown in step . In step , the second display device receives categories, options and a content list from the proxy server. Alternatively, the proxy server may send content to the second display device with the associated URL replaced with playlist ID. Alternatively, the service provider may permit, in some cases that the URL is sent to the second display device. For example, the second display may have a secure application, and the service provider may allow a second display with a secure application to receive the URL. Thus, the content URL may be transmitted to the IPTV device for playback, rather than having the IPTV device retrieve the data from the server.","In step  the user selects playback and then in step  the playlist ID is sent from the second display device to the IPTV client device. If the IPTV client does not answer or does not acknowledge the request to play the content, or is unable to play the content at the time, such as when the IPTV client device may be on and reachable, but a viewer has enacted a \u201cdo not disturb\u201d mode, the second display device informs the user that the IPTV client device is unreachable (not available to play the content at this time) and queues the request to be repeated at a later time when the IPTV client device is reachable.","In step  the playlist ID is sent from IPTV client to proxy server, and returned from proxy server to IPTV client in step . In step  IPTV client requests content URL with playlist data to service provider, and then in step  the service provider returns content URL for playback to the IPTV client device. Alternatively, the proxy server may store the URL content and thus, return the URL content to the IPTV client device without the need to request the content at the URL associated with the playlist data from the service provider. Thus, when the proxy server stores the URL, step  is not used, rather, once the IPTV client device obtains the URL, the IPTV client device can start playback.","Referring back to , when Internet content users browse content on their internet protocol televisions (IPTV) , as first display devices, there often is an urge to share content with other users\/friends. The content to be shared may be content that is publically available on the internet through a URL or may be content that is only available to IPTV devices  through the use of the IPTV protocol. Current Internet content providing systems on internet protocol televisions (IPTV)  do not allow sharing of content. Additionally, even if internet protocol TV's (IPTV)  allow this, there is a problem to do so across different platforms such as Blu-ray\u00ae disc players (BDP)  and digital tv's  (DTV) due to the different platform software.","While sharing content is easy on the internet between personal computers, it becomes a challenge with other platforms due to the terms of synchronization and software uniformity. The present invention allows a user to share contents\/assets or content URLs via a second display device (control display device)  with other users or subscribers to the content providing service. This means that the other users will be able to view the same content on their own internet protocol television (IPTV)  without the need for searching for the content in the content providing service itself. When internet content URLs are shared, the recipient can preview, on the second display device  itself, the content accessed from the URL before sending it to the internet protocol television (IPTV)  as the first display device. However, when the content being shared is IPTV content, it can only be viewed by an IPTV device. Therefore, the second display device  is not capable of previewing the content, since certain authentications are only performed in the IPTV system, which are not performed for internet content URLs. Thus, there will be content only available in the IPTV system that is not generally available.","In order to share content, the user should have already established a list of other users (friends list) using respective second display devices . This is done using the normal add other users\/friends mechanism on the second display device , such as typically used among social networking sites. The user can select to share the content with some or all the other users on the list.","The indication of shared content is received by modules that control the first display devices. The modules can be hardware or software. The modules can be provided in one second display device that controls all first display devices. Alternatively, the modules can be in multiple second display devices, where each second display device controls one or more first display devices. Furthermore, the modules can be built into the first display devices, with or without the use of second display devices, to control other first display devices.","A proxy server  or optional server coordinates communication between the first and second display devices and the server . The proxy server  can provide a list of devices that the content can be shared with through a list of devices associated with a user\/recipient account. Alternatively, the module controlling the sharing can locate the first and second display devices to share the content with through device discovery such that the proxy server is not needed. Thus, the second display device can get information about devices it can share content with through device discovery.","It should be noted that the target of the sharing is a user account, not a specific device. Thus, any device that is associated with that user account can be notified of the shared content choice. The notified device can play the shared content if it is content that the device is capable of playing. Therefore, a second display device may be associated with more than one first display device.","For a typical case, a user's second display device  is used to browse content choices. It sends commands to the user's first display device  to play content. The user's second display device sends information about a content selection to share along with information about the recipient to the IPTV system server (management server  or proxy server ). The IPTV system server notifies the recipient's second display device of the shared content choice. The recipient's second display device is then used to tell the recipient's first display device to play the shared content.","Other embodiments include (a) having the functionality (i.e. browse, content selection, etc.) of the user's second display device built into the user's first display device, (b) having the functionality (i.e. notification receipt, etc.) of the recipient's second display device built into the recipient's first display device, (c) having the user's first display device communicate its shared content choice directly to the recipient's second display device, (d) the user's second display device gets information about devices to share content with from the IPTV system server, (e) the user's second display device gets information about devices to share content with through device discovery, (f) the target of sharing is a user account not a device, (g) the second display device is associated with more than one first display device and (h) the shared content is found on the internet instead of the IPTV system.","In the preferred embodiment as shown in , (and referring to components in ) the second display device () controls the first display device (). The user first browses content, as shown in step S on the content provider's website using the second display device () using a content browser or web browser. Alternatively, the user can browse the content using the user's IPTV device () rather than the second display device (). The user then decides which content of storage () on a content server () to share, as shown in step S with another user or users (recipient(s)). A content sharing request is then sent by the user to a management server () or proxy server () with a selected list of other users\/friends IDs, as shown in step S. The server (, ) performs the necessary mapping so that the content is available to the selected recipient(s), as shown in step S. The server (, ) then sends a notification to the recipient(s) via the recipient's second display device, as shown step S (i.e. sent to second display devices () via proxy server ()). The notification can be a device built into the first display device (i.e. sent to second display device  via first display device ). Alternatively, the notification module can be operatively coupled to the first display device. Alternatively, the server  sends the notification directly to the recipients IPTV device (). Furthermore, if the notification device is built into the user's first display device, the user's first display device sends the notification directly to the recipient's IPTV device (). The recipient then can elect to receive the content, as shown in step S.","The recipient can then play back the content on a compatible internet protocol TV (IPTV) () of his\/her choice, as shown in step S. When internet content URLs are shared, the recipient is able to preview the content from that URL on the recipient's second display device () before sending it to the recipient's internet protocol television (IPTV) ().","In another embodiment, the content to be shared may be stored on the second display device itself rather than the content providing server (). This occurs when the second display device contains a camera that is used to capture the contents that is to be shared or when the second display device contains a memory card reader and a memory card with the contents to be shared is inserted into the memory card reader. Thus, the second display device () acts as the server providing the content () as well as providing the list of selected recipients to share the content on multiple IPTV devices (first display device). However, even in this embodiment, the second display device sends the contents sharing request to the controlling server and not the content itself. The content is transmitted from the server\/device hosting the content directly to the IPTV devices playing the content. The second display device may communicate the content to be shared directly to the IPTV device. This occurs when the second display device is also being used to control each of the first display devices as well as being used to share content. Thus, the second display device communicates with the IPTV devices directly and\/or communicates with the IPTV devices through a content providing server\/controlling server.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},"The steps  as shown in  may be stored on an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as RAM, ROM, EEPROM, or other medium that may be accessed by a processing device. The process begins with start step . A first display device, such as an IPTV device displays content, such as television programs, or Internet content, or other data, as shown in step . A second display device, which may be a control device, such as a mobile phone, personal digital assistant (PDA) device, or other processing device, which is typically a portable device shares content and may also browse a network, such as the Internet, as shown in step . When the second device is used to browse the Internet, the second device has a web browser application.","As shown in step , a server device, which is operatively coupled to the first display device and second display device, receives content that is to be shared as well as a list of recipients that can receive the shared content.","As shown in step , the server device maps recipients with a second display device so that content is available to the selected recipients. Step  shows that the server device notifies the second display device of the selected recipients that content is available. The content can then be displayed to the selected recipients.","Step  shows that the process ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0122"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"700"},"The steps  as shown in  may be stored on an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as RAM, ROM, EEPROM, or other medium that may be accessed by a processing device. The process begins with start step . In step , a list of recipients for sharing content is stored in a memory location. This memory location may be at a portable device or at a server location. Step  shows that a user browses content. This browsing is typically done via a network, such as the Internet, using a portable device that has a web browsing application.","Step  shows that a share request and a selected recipient is sent from a portable device to a server device. The selected recipient is selected from a list of recipients. The portable device then receives notification from the server that content is available for sharing, as shown in step . Step  shows that the content to be shared is forwarded to a display device, such as an IPTV device. Step  shows that the IPTV device displays the shared content.","End step  shows that the process ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0126"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"800"},"The steps  as shown in  may be stored on an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as RAM, ROM, EEPROM, or other medium that may be accessed by a processing device. The process begins with start step .","In step  a server device receives content to be shared and a list of recipients. This is transmitted from a display device. Step  shows that recipients are mapped with an associated device. In step , the associated devices of the recipients are notified that content is available for sharing. In step , the content is previewed on a device. If the previewed content is not desired, or accepted, as shown in step , line  shows that the content is not provided to a display device. When the previewed content is accepted, line  shows that the content is provided to a display device, such as an IPTV device, for display, as shown in step .","End step  shows that the process ends.","Like all other assets in the Internet content providing service compatible with a second display device, recommended assets can also be managed on the second display device and put into favorite lists or user created content services.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0131"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","900","908","902","913","906","904"],"i":["a","a"]},"Network  is, for example, any combination of linked computers, or processing devices, adapted to transfer and process data. The network  may be private Internet Protocol (IP) networks, as well as public IP networks, such as the Internet that can utilize World Wide Web (www) browsing functionality. An example of a wired network is a network that uses communication busses and MODEMS, or DSL lines, or a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN) to transmit and receive data between terminals. An example of a wireless network is a wireless LAN. Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM) is another example of a wireless network. The GSM network is divided into three major systems which are the switching system, the base station system, and the operation and support system (GSM). Also, IEEE 802.11 (Wi-Fi) is a commonly used wireless network in computer systems that enable connection to the Internet or other machines that have Wi-Fi functionality. Wi-Fi networks broadcast radio waves that can be picked up by Wi-Fi receivers that are attached to different computers.","First display devices () . . . (n) (where \u201cn\u201d is any suitable number) (generally referred to as ) are coupled to network  via an associated bi-directional communication medium () . . . (n), which may be for example a serial bus such as IEEE 1394, or other wire or wireless transmission medium. Display devices  may be IPTV devices, communication appliances, or user locations, or subscriber devices, or client terminals that are used to display content. Display devices  typically include a CPU , web browser  and display module . The display module  may be, for example, a display screen, or LCD, or plasma screen to display content.","Content server  is a data storage and processing device with suitable memory and speed. The server  includes a CPU (central processing unit) , supporting circuitry, hard drives I\/O ports and memory. The server  also has a web browser  that is adapted to search and\/or browse the Internet or another network and may be a program such as Internet Explorer\u2122. The server  is, for example, a webserver that communicates with the network  via an acceptable language, such as HTML and serves the content to be shared. The content server  typically stores content that is to be displayed on one or more of the display devices . The content server  is operatively coupled to network  via bi-directional communication medium , which may be a wired or wireless connection.","Server apparatus , which may also be referred to as an IPTV system server, is a data storage and processing device with suitable memory and speed. The server  includes a CPU (central processing unit), supporting circuitry, hard drives I\/O ports and memory. The server  may also be a webserver.","As shown in , server  includes CPU  and memory  and is operatively coupled to network  via bi-directional communication means . The bi-directional communication means  is, for example, a serial bus such as IEEE 1394, or other wired or wireless transmission medium.","Server CPU  is a processing unit, or module that has suitable memory and processing speed to perform the desired function. This may include, for example, 2 GB RAM, 2.4 GHz frequency and 160 GB hard drive. CPU  is operatively coupled to memory module , which includes a contents module , a mapping module , a notification module  and a receiving module .","The contents module  is an electronic memory or storage medium that stores content, such as audio data, video data, image data, links and other desired information that may be obtained, stored and\/or transmitted in an electronic format. The content stored in contents module  may also include content URLs (uniform resource locators), Internet content having URLs, content that is available to IPTV devices using IPTV protocol and other content available either utilizing a network, such as an IPTV network, Internet or other series of operatively coupled processing devices. The memory module or facility  may be a non-transitory computer-readable medium.","Mapping module  is an electronic memory or storage medium that stores data used for mapping recipients in a selected list of recipients with at least one first display device () and\/or second display device  associated with each selected recipient such that the content is available to the selected recipients. This may be achieved using the user account data as described herein.","In an embodiment of the present invention, the server  can communicate with the first display device  and the second display device . In this embodiment, the notification module , which is an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory electronic storage medium that stores data in an electronic format, presents a notification to the user. The notification module  is used to provide notification of the first display device  and\/or the second display device  of the selected recipients that content is available for viewing on the recipient's display device (\/). The notification module  may be in communication, via network , with other components of system .","Receiving module  is an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory electronic storage medium that stores data in an electronic format. The receiving module  is used to store a request to share content and a list of selected recipients to share the content therewith.","Display devices () . . . (n) (where \u201cn\u201d is any suitable number) (generally referred to as  herein) are coupled to network  via an associated bi-directional communication medium () . . . (n), which may be for example a serial bus such as IEEE 1394, or other wired or wireless transmission medium. Display devices  may be communication appliances, or user locations, or subscriber devices, or client terminals. For example, devices  may be computers, or other processing devices such as a desktop computer, laptop computer, personal digital assistant (PDA), cellphone, wireless handheld device and the like.","Display device  includes a display screen , which may be a plasma screen, LCD or other suitable display device. The display device  also includes recipients module , shared contents module , selecting module , web browser , transmitting module , receiving module , forwarding module , notification module  and playback module .","Recipients module  is an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory electronic storage medium that stores data in an electronic format. The data includes recipients' electronic addresses that can receive content. Shared contents module  is an is an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory electronic storage medium that stores data in an electronic format that stores content that is, or may be, shared between one or more devices, such as devices  and .","In an embodiment of the present invention, when content to be shared includes IPTV content, the second display device of the recipient may not be capable of previewing the content before the second display device of the recipient sends the content to the recipient's first display device. The first display device may be independent of the second display device.","Selecting module  is an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory electronic storage medium that stores data in an electronic format related to selecting desired recipients that may receive content from device . The web browser  is adapted to search and\/or browse the Internet or another network and may be a program such as Internet Explorer\u2122.","Transmitting module  is a transmitter or an I\/O port that is used to transmit or provide electronic signal to another destination, typically via network  via transmission medium . Receiver module  is used to receive data, content or other information at device . Forwarding module  is used to forward information from device  to another device or module in system . Typically this forwarding module  is a cache memory that collects data, content and the like for subsequent re-transmission.","Notification module  is an electronic storage medium, such as a non-transitory electronic storage medium that stores data in an electronic format related to other devices, or destinations that the device  may forward content to. This provides a receiving device with an indication that content will be transmitted there.","In one embodiment of the present invention, when content to be shared includes interne content URLs, a second display device  of the selected recipient is notified that content is available and the second display device  is capable of previewing the content on the recipient's second display device. This preview may occur before the second display device  of the recipient sends the content to the recipient's first display device .","Playback module  is a module that, when actuated, enables playback of content on display screen .","As shown in , a second device (i.e., ()) may be used to browse content choices. The second device (()) sends command to an IPTV device (i.e., ()) for that device (()) to play content. The second device (()) also sends information about a content selection to share along with information about the recipient device (e.g., ()) to server . The server  notifies the recipient () of the shared content choice. The recipient device () may then be used to inform another display device (e.g., ()) to play the shared content. Thus another display device () can display the content.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in  is that the functionality of a particular display device (e.g., ()) is built into a selected IPTV device (e.g., ()) that is operatively coupled to a display device (). In this embodiment device () is not necessary since the functionality of the device () is built into device ().","Yet another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in  is that that the functionality of a particular display device (e.g., ()) is built into a particular IPTV device (e.g., ()), wherein the particular display device () is operatively coupled to the particular IPTV device (). Similar to the above-describe embodiment, in this embodiment device () is not necessary since the functionality of the device () is built into device ().","Yet another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in  is that an IPTV device (()) communicates its shared content choice with a desired display device (()) and does not utilize IPTV system server .","Yet another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in  is that a display device () obtains information about other devices that display device () can share information with from IPTV system server .","Yet another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in  is that a display device () obtains information about other devices that the display device () can share information or content or otherwise communicate with via a device discover process, such as an API (application programming interface), or \u201cping\u201d or other mechanism to determine or identify devices available for communication.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to another device that has been identified as available for communication, (the \u201ctarget\u201d device) may be a user account rather than the display device (i.e., device ). Any device that is associated with the user account can be notified of the shared content choice and can play or display the content, provided the target device has the necessary functionality. This embodiment may be implemented where the target device of the sharing is another device. Also, the target device and display device(s) may be associated with the same user and\/or same user account.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a display device (), being associated with more than one IPTV devices (), ().","Yet another embodiment is directed to a device that indicates sharing content indicates a content selection that was obtained via the Internet, rather than the IPTV system.","Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using one or more processing devices, or processing modules. The processing devices, or modules, may be coupled such that portions of the processing and\/or data manipulation may be performed at one or more processing devices and shared or transmitted between a plurality of processing devices.","Indeed, the present invention may be implemented in a distributed or \u201ccloud\u201d computing environment in which shared resources, software and information are provided to computers and other devices over a network, which may be, for example, the Internet. \u201cCloud computing\u201d typically involves delivering hosted services over the Internet. A cloud service typically has three distinct characteristics that differentiate it from traditional hosting. One characteristic is that it is usually sold on demand, typically by the minute or the hour; secondly, it is elastic\u2014a user can have as much or as little of a service as they want at any given time; and thirdly, the service is usually fully managed by the provider (the consumer, or end user needs nothing but a personal computer and Internet access). Innovations in virtualization and distributed computing, as well as improved access to high-speed Internet have facilitated utilization of cloud computing. The cloud can be private or public. A public cloud typically sells services to anyone on the Internet. A private cloud is a typically a proprietary network or a data center that supplies hosted services to a limited number of people. When a service provider uses public cloud resources to create their private cloud, the result is called a virtual private cloud. Private or public, the goal of cloud computing is to provide easy, scalable access to computing.","\u201cDistributed computing\u201d, or \u201cdistributed systems\u201d relate to a system of multiple autonomous computers or processing devices or facilities that communicate through a network. The computers interact with each other in order to achieve a particular goal. A computer program that runs in a distributed system is typically referred to as a \u201cdistributed program\u201d and \u201cdistributed programming\u201d is the process of writing such programs. Distributed computing also refers to the use of distributed systems to solve computational problems. Typically, in distributed computing, a problem is divided into multiple tasks, each of which is solved by one or more computers.","Indeed, as shown herein, specifically in , the processing of servers  and  may be distributed between a plurality of server devices that may be remotely located. The results of the processing may be propagated throughout the system  via network , such that the data may be received and\/or further processed and\/or manipulated by the other devices\/modules of system .","In the present invention, the sharing mechanism is platform independent. The notification of receipt of a shared asset goes to the user, via the user's second display device, instead of the platform. Using the second display device infrastructure, the user can choose any interne protocol TV (IPTV) associated with his\/her content providing service account for playback. The interne protocol TV (IPTV) needs only to support generic second display device compatibility playback of contents. The interne protocol TV (IPTV) does not need to have any knowledge of social networking, which otherwise would require a significant software code change in the internet protocol television (IPTV) platform. In addition, when the user adds a new device as the second display device, the new device automatically inherits the recommendations of the second display device.","It will be appreciated from the above that the invention may be implemented as computer software, which may be supplied on a storage medium or via a transmission medium such as a local-area network or a wide-area network, such as the Internet. It is to be further understood that, because some of the constituent system components and method steps depicted in the accompanying Figures can be implemented in software, the actual connections between the systems components (or the process steps) may differ depending upon the manner in which the present invention is programmed. Given the teachings of the present invention provided herein, one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate these and similar implementations or configurations of the present invention.","It is to be understood that the present invention can be implemented in various forms of hardware, software, firmware, special purpose processes, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the present invention can be implemented in software as an application program tangible embodied on a computer readable program storage device. The application program can be uploaded to, and executed by, a machine comprising any suitable architecture.","The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only, as the invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore, no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown. Although illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments, and that various changes and modifications can be effected therein by one skilled in the art."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, certain illustrative embodiments of the invention are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These embodiments are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed and the present invention is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages, embodiments and novel features of the invention may become apparent from the following description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings. The following description, given by way of example, but not intended to limit the invention solely to the specific embodiments described, may best be understood in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 2","i":["a ","b "],"b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
