---
title: Mobile promotion distribution
abstract: Systems and methods for providing games, challenges, and/or promotions to mobile devices are usable to provide incentives to customers. According to one embodiment, a system can be provided. The system can be operable to receive location information associated with a mobile device and additional information, such as but not limited demographic and/or purchase history information, associated with the mobile device. Additionally, the system can be operable to select content based on the received information, transmit the content to the mobile device, receive an event outcome indicator associated with the content, and provide a promotional offer to the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09466067&OS=09466067&RS=09466067
owner: SPARKFLY INC
number: 09466067
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111018
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["In both traditional brick-and-mortar stores and e-commerce sites, merchants often provide promotions to incentivize customers to purchase goods and\/or services. For instance, a merchant may provide a coupon to a potential customer in the hopes that the potential customer will eventually make a purchase. If the customer is pleased with the purchase they may return for subsequent purchases.","However, while these situations illustrate instances where a promotion may entice a customer to purchase goods and\/or services, in many instances the customer may not receive appropriate promotions. Additionally, modern mobile device user's are often flooded with promotions for products or services with which they have no interest. As such, finding ways to appropriately provide relevant promotional content continues to be a priority.","Overview","Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to, among other things, providing games and promotional content to mobile devices, including near-field communication (NFC) devices. As an overview, content may be a game, a challenge, a question, a promotion, a coupon, a coupon code, a unique identifier, a product, a service, a sellable unit, a user profile, location information, or anything else that can be transmitted to a mobile device or other computing device. An on-line (or brick-and-mortar) merchant or a third-party vendor (e.g., a consumer goods manufacturer or other consumer packaged goods (CPG) provider) may provide games and\/or challenges for mobile devices and their users (i.e., the consumer). One or more games and\/or challenges may then be selected for presentation to appropriate users based on several factors. For example, appropriate games and\/or challenges may be selected for a particular consumer based on the location of the consumer's mobile device, the location of a merchant, past purchasing behavior of the consumer, and\/or demographic information associated with the consumer.","In some examples, once a condition is satisfied regarding the game and\/or challenge (e.g., a challenge question is answered correctly or a game is won), promotional content may be provided to the consumer. In some aspects, promotional content may include a coupon or other discount for use at a merchant's or third-party vendor's establishment or website. Additionally, in some aspects, the promotional content may include a unique identifier for indicating to the merchant that the consumer earned a coupon or discount. Similarly, or alternatively, in some examples, promotional content may be selected for presentation to a consumer based on the location information and other user information (e.g., purchase history information and\/or demographic information) without first providing the game and\/or challenge.","In some instances, a service provider may receive, store, and\/or manage games, challenges, and\/or promotional content provided by merchants and\/or third-party vendors. By way of example only, a merchant may include a restaurant, a convenience store, a supermarket, a retail store, a doctor or other service provider, an on-line store, a mechanic, a wholesaler, or any other type of business that provides goods and\/or services to consumers. Similarly, a third-party vendor may include any of the above types of merchants and\/or providers of products and\/or services that are sold at, but are not necessarily directly associated with, the merchant. For example, a provider of a brand of soda sold exclusively or otherwise at a restaurant may be a third-party vendor.","In some examples, the service provider may receive location and\/or user information associated with a mobile device. Location information may include global positioning service (GPS) information transmitted from the mobile device, location information entered by a user of the mobile device, and\/or location information determined based on a location of a cellular tower or Wi-Fi\u2122 device through which the mobile device is communicating. Further, user information associated with the mobile device may include purchase behavior information (e.g., products and\/or services, types of products and\/or services, amounts of products and\/or services, values of products and\/or services, and\/or frequency of purchase of products and\/or services purchased by a consumer using the mobile device or at least associated with the mobile device) and\/or demographic information (e.g., a name, address, average income, sex, and\/or race associated with a consumer).","Additionally, the service provider may receive games and\/or challenges intended for particular mobile devices (e.g., devices belonging to members of certain demographics and\/or groups). Alternatively, or in addition, the games and\/or challenges may be intended for devices that are located in certain geographic locations. For example, a retail store (or chain of retail stores) may provide a game and\/or challenge to the service provider that is intended for mobile devices within a predefined distance from the physical location of the retail store (or one of the chain of retail stores). In this way, particular mobile devices may be targeted when the service provider receives information indicating that a mobile device is within the range (e.g., within a mile of the location, within five miles of the location, within the same city or county as the location, or traveling towards the location from any distance). Further, on some examples, particular mobile devices may be targeted based on a combination of the physical location of the mobile device and the demographic and\/or user information.","In some instances, a consumer may control a mobile device and activate an application or other software program for receiving promotions, playing games, and\/or completing challenges. The application or software program may display the promotions, games, and\/or challenges that were received from the service provider. In some examples, the consumer may be presented with one or more promotions, games, and\/or challenges provided by the service provider. For example, the service provider may determine an appropriate list or set of promotions, games, and\/or challenges for the consumer based on the physical location of the consumer or the mobile device of the consumer or based on the user information associated with the consumer or the mobile device of the consumer (such as purchase behavior history and\/or demographic information). This appropriate list, set, or other grouping of determined promotions, games, and\/or challenges may be transmitted to the mobile device, and\/or retrieved from memory of the mobile device in whole or in part, for presentation. Alternatively, or in addition, the service provider may transmit information related to one or more merchants that the service provider determines is appropriate based on the location information, the user information, or a combination. In this example, the consumer may select a merchant, rather than a game and\/or challenge, and the game and\/or challenge associated with the selected merchant may then be presented.","In some aspects, games and\/or challenges may be interactive and\/or graphical video-type games, such as but not limited to first-person shooter games, adventure games, role-playing games, and the like. However, games and\/or challenges may also include trivia questions, word scrambles, scavenger hunts, and the like. In one non-limiting example, a game and\/or challenge may request a consumer to identify the third wine on a wine list of a particular restaurant or a manager's name. In another non-limiting example, a game and\/or challenge may require the consumer to frequent a location or locations or purchase items and services from a number of different merchants in order to complete the game and\/or challenge. Other examples may include collecting items from merchant's stores or answering historical trivia questions about the merchant, a third-party vendor, or other entities, locations, or events.","In certain examples, once a consumer has successfully completed a game and\/or challenge, the mobile device or merchant (e.g., a batch or real-time delivery of consumer information\/ID) may transmit an outcome event indication or response to the service provider. The service provider may be configured to determine whether the game and\/or challenge was completed correctly (or at least to the satisfaction of the merchant and\/or third-party vendor), whether the mobile device is registered with the service provider, and\/or whether the game and\/or challenge is still valid. In some instances, the service provider may provide a unique identifier to the mobile device. This unique identifier may be presented to the merchant to indicate that the consumer has earned a promotion, coupon, and\/or discount. Upon verification of the unique identifier, either locally or with the service provider, the merchant may then discount the price of a specific item or group of items or the total sales price for items purchased and\/or services provided for the consumer.","In some examples, a point of sale (POS) device located at the merchant may be integrated with software for performing the disclosed features and may be communicatively coupled to a computer of the service provider such that these features may be performed automatically, seamlessly, and\/or in real-time. The POS system may receive the unique identifier by the merchant or consumer with a card scan or swipe, barcode scan from the mobile device display, keypad entry, touch screen for input, mouse input, the transmission of a signal from the mobile device via NFC, or capturing other biometric input from the consumer such as fingerprint, voice, eye, or facial features. As such, the POS device may receive the unique identifier, verify with the service provider (or against identifiers stored locally), and provide the discount to a pending transaction in real-time or near real-time. Additionally, in some examples, the POS device or the merchant may record or otherwise maintain a list of consumers that have successfully completed the challenge and\/or game. In this example, the POS device or the merchant may periodically (or in real-time) transmit unique identifiers and\/or the list of consumers that have completed tasks to the service provider.","Additionally, in some instances, the service provider may receive and record an indication that a consumer and\/or mobile device has redeemed a promotion with a particular merchant and may allow the consumer to interact with (e.g., by \u201cunlocking\u201d) the next game and\/or challenge associated with that particular merchant. In this way, the consumer may be incentivized to return to that particular merchant creating repeat business for the merchant and\/or third-party vendor. As used herein, \u201cunlocking\u201d refers to providing games and\/or challenges to users that were previously \u201clocked\u201d or otherwise unavailable. That is, a \u201clocked\u201d game or challenge may be visible to a user in that it may be selectable or viewable; however, the user may not be able to participate and\/or complete the game and\/or challenge. In some aspects, the \u201clocked\u201d games and\/or challenges provide greater rewards than the \u201cunlocked\u201d ones, thus encouraging users to complete games and\/or challenges to further \u201cunlock\u201d additional games and\/or challenges. This may also promote repeat customers.","For example, upon selecting a merchant for the first time, a first game and\/or challenge may be automatically \u201cunlocked\u201d such that the user may be able to select, interact with, and\/or play\/complete the game and\/or challenge. In some instances, this may be considered the first level. As games are completed, and new games are \u201cunlocked,\u201d the user may progress to higher levels. In some aspects, advancing to the next level may include the possibility of increased rewards. That is, in some examples, the next level may provide a greater discount or a more valuable reward (or at least the opportunity for a greater discount or more valuable reward) than the last level.","Further, social networking may be utilized to allow users to interact with other social network members to promote the service provider and\/or the promotions platform. For example, promoting the promotions platform and\/or recruiting new members via a social networking site may lead to increased discounts for the user who initiates the promotion and\/or the recruitment.","The following discussion begins with a section entitled \u201cIllustrative Architecture,\u201d which describes a non-limiting environment in which a service provider may interact with one or more mobile devices, one or more merchants, and\/or one or more third-party vendors for providing games, challenges, and\/or promotions to users and\/or mobile devices. The discussion then concludes with a section entitled \u201cIllustrative Processes\u201d and a brief conclusion.","This brief introduction, including section titles and corresponding summaries, is provided for the reader's convenience and is not intended to limit the scope of the claims, nor the proceeding sections. Furthermore, the techniques described above and below may be implemented in a number of ways and in a number of contexts. Several example implementations and contexts are provided with reference to the following figures, as described below in more detail. However, the following implementations and contexts are but a few of many.","Illustrative Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","1","104","106","108","104","106","102","108","102","106","108","102"]},"In some aspects, and as described briefly above, the client application interface  may allow the users  to access, receive from, transmit to, or otherwise interact with a service provider via one or more service provider computers . In some examples, the client application interface  may also allow users to receive games, challenges, and\/or promotions from the service provider computers  over the networks . Through the client application interface , the users  may play games, complete challenges, answer trivia questions, and\/or receive information.","The architecture  may also include one or more merchant computing devices . The merchant computing devices  may be any type of computing devices, such as but not limited to, mobile, desktop, and\/or cloud computing devices, such as servers. In some examples, the merchant computers  may be in communication with the service provider computer  via the networks , or via other network connections. The merchant computers  may include one or more servers, perhaps arranged in a cluster, as a server farm, or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to host a website viewable via the client application interface  or any other Web browser accessible by a user , such as but not limited to one or more of the mobile devices . Additionally, in some aspects, the merchant computers  may be configured to create and\/or provide games and\/or challenges for the mobile devices .","In some embodiments, a merchant computer  may be coupled with, or integrated within, a POS device  for completing transactions with customers or users . The POS device  may be configured to process purchase transactions of a user  either at a brick-and-mortar location or accessible via the Internet and may include, but are not limited to, handheld POS devices, desktop-style, kiosk-style, and\/or register-style POS devices. In some aspects, the features of the service provider computer  may be integrated within the POS device  such that the POS device may be able to read, identify, or otherwise receive input regarding a completed challenge and\/or won game on a mobile device .","The architecture  may also include one or more third-party computing devices . The third-party computing devices  may also be any type of computing devices, such as but not limited to, mobile, desktop, and\/or cloud computing devices, such as servers. In some examples, the third-party computers  may be in communication with the service provider computer  via the networks , or via other network connections. The third-party computers  may include one or more servers, perhaps arranged in a cluster, as a server farm, or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to host a website viewable via the client application interface  or any other Web browser accessible by a user , such as but not limited to one or more of the mobile devices . Additionally, in some aspects, the third-party computers  may be configured to create and\/or provide games and\/or challenges for the mobile devices .","In some aspects, the third-party computers  may be configured to receive, store, manage, distribute, analyze, and\/or determine user information associated with users . For example, a third-party computer  may be configured to receive purchase history information associated with a user  or a mobile device . Additionally, a different (or the same) third-party computer  may be configured to receive demographic information associated with a user  and\/or a mobile device . In some examples, a user  may be able to update or otherwise change their own demographic information received by, and\/or stored at, the third-party computers . In some instances, the third-party computers  may create categories, levels, or other groupings of user  based on the received user information. The service provider computers  may then select appropriate promotions, games, and\/or challenges to be sent to the mobile devices  based on this information.","The mobile devices  may be any type of computing devices, including but not limited to mobile phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), tablets personal computers (PCs), game consoles, set-top boxes, and the like. In some instances and as illustrated, each user computing device  may be equipped with one or more processors  and memory  to store applications and data, such as user information , location information , and a client application  that displays the client application interface  and\/or enables access to the Web site  stored on the service provider computers  or elsewhere.","The user information  may be personal information associated with the user  of the computing device . For example, the user information  may include general demographic information such as name, age, address, and salary range and\/or enhanced demographic information such as sex, race, telephone number, height, weight, etc. of the user . This user information  may be provided by the user  or may be aggregated by the service provider computer , the third-party computers , or some other service, and transmitted to the mobile device . The location information  may be based on the physical location of the mobile device . This location information  may be provided by, or otherwise determined by, GPS, triangulation, Internet protocol (IP) address, router location, or any other methods for determining a location of a mobile device .","Additionally, the user information  may include purchase behavior information based on purchased items or services, amounts of purchased items or services, dollar amounts spent on purchased items or services, etc. For example, a purchase history may include information associated with some or all products purchased by a consumer using a mobile device or associated with the mobile device. That is, if a consumer associated with a mobile device purchases a new pair of shoes, a used vehicles, and a three dinners in a predetermined time period, such as a week or a month, the purchase behavior information may indicate each of the items, the amount spent on each item, the dates and\/or times of day associated with each purchase, and\/or aggregates of each or all of the purchases. In this way, purchasing behavior profiles, groups, labels, levels, etc., may be designated for the users  such that, appropriate promotions, games, and\/or challenges may be targeted towards these users .","In some aspects, the client application interface  may provide a list of merchants determined to be within a predetermined distance of the mobile device  or related to (or associated with) a particular demographic or purchasing behavior, such as Merchants , , . . . , M. For example, the Merchants -M may be merchants determined to be within one mile, or some other distance, of the mobile device  or they may be merchants associated with games selected by the user . In other examples, however, Merchants -M may be merchants that match the user's  demographic and\/or purchase behavior. For example, if a purchase behavior of a particular user  indicates that they purchase new shoes often, the Merchants -M may be shoe-store merchants when the mobile device  is near a shoe merchant or independent of the location of the mobile device. Similarly, if the user's purchase behavior also indicates that the user  eats lunch around noon every day, Merchants -M may be restaurants during or right before noon and shoe-store merchants at other times of the day. As desired, other combinations of purchasing behavior information may be used to determine what list of Merchants -M to be displayed at the client application interface .","Alternatively, or in addition, the client application interface  may provide a list of available games and\/or challenges associated with merchants within a predetermined distance of the mobile device  and\/or associated with information about the user  (such as demographic information and\/or purchase history) of the computing device , such as Games , , . . . , X. For example, the Games -X may be games available, or provided by, merchants within the predetermined distance, or they may be games associated with, or otherwise provided by, merchants selected by the user  regardless of location. Further, Games -X may be associated with or otherwise related to merchants that match the user's  demographic information or profile and\/or purchasing behavior information or profile. Additionally, once a user  has selected a promotion or correctly completed and\/or answered a game and\/or challenge, the client application interface  may be configured to display a unique identifier (ID) .","As noted above, in some aspects, promotions, games, and\/or challenges transmitted to the mobile devices  may be provided by the merchant computers  and\/or the third-party computers . In one example embodiment, a first merchant computer, for example Merchant , may be a computing device controlled by a restaurant owner, manager, or employee and may transmit a game or challenge, for example Game , to the service provider computer . Similarly, Merchant , possibly a different restaurant, may provide and\/or transmit a different game, for example, Game , to the service provider. In this example, the respective games and\/or challenges may be 1) a request for a user  to learn the first restaurant manager's name and 2) a request for a user  to learn the fifth wine on the wine list of the second restaurant. In some aspects of this example, the user  may select the first game based on personal preference even if it is not geographically close to the user . The user  may then go to the first restaurant, ask for the manager's name, and enter the answer, or select from a list (e.g., in a multiple-choice question format), into the client application interface . An event outcome indicator may then be transmitted to the service provider computer  indicating that the user  is attempting to complete the challenge. Alternatively, the answer, and thus, the event outcome indicator, could be entered via a Web interface.","Upon transmitting the event outcome indicator to the service provider computer, the mobile device  may also transmit location information. In some aspects, the service provider computer  may validate the answer in the event outcome indicator by comparing it to the answer provided by the merchant computer . The service provider computer  may also, optionally, verify that the user  is actually at the location of the first restaurant if that is part of the challenge provided by the merchant computer . Alternatively, however, the validation and\/or storage of the answer may take place on the mobile device  without any transmission to the service provider computer , for example in instances when there are bandwidth and\/or connectivity issues or, optionally, it is not required by the provider of the promotion. In some examples, the service provider computer  may also verify that the user  is a registered user, that the game and\/or challenge is still a valid game and\/or challenge, and\/or that the game and\/or challenge was appropriately \u201cunlocked\u201d by the user  prior to completion.","In some aspects, once the service provider computer  determines that the event outcome indicator indicates a completed challenge, and other validations\/verifications are complete, the unique ID  may be transmitted to the mobile device . The unique ID  may, in some instances, be unique for each transaction, game, challenge, user , and\/or merchant. The unique ID  may then be presented to the merchant at the physical location, whereby the merchant or consumer performs one of the following to transmit unique ID  to the merchant computer  or POS device : card scan or swipe, barcode scan from the mobile device display, keypad entry, touch screen for input, mouse input, the transmission of a signal from the mobile device via NFC, or capturing other biometric input from the consumer such as fingerprint, voice, eye, or facial features. Unique ID  may then be transmitted from the POS device  or the merchant computer  to the service provider computer , and validated by the service provider computer . If validated, the service provider computer  may then indicate that the merchant should provide the associated promotion to the user , for example, because the user  has won the game and\/or completed the challenge. Once completed, the next game and\/or challenge may be \u201cunlocked\u201d for the user . In some instances, the discounts and\/or promotions may become increasingly valuable as the user  \u201cunlocks\u201d additional games and\/or challenges.","In another example embodiment, promotions, games, and\/or promotions may be provided by third-party vendors or merchants, controlling third-party computers . For example, a third-party vendor may include a seller of a product that is sold at a merchant's store. In this embodiment, a third-party vendor may provide a game that requests a user  to complete one or more challenges related to the merchant store where the third-party vendor's product is sold or related to the third-party product. In one example, the third-party vendor may be a soda vendor and the game and\/or challenge may be to purchase the third-party vendor's soda at a certain number of participating merchant stores. As such, the event outcome indicator may indicate to the service provider computer  that the user  has purchased the third-party vendor's soda at three participating stores. If this completes the challenge, the unique ID  may be provided to the mobile device  and the user  may be able to redeem for a promotion related to either one of the participating stores, another merchant, or the third-party vendor.","In some aspects, one or more servers, perhaps arranged in a cluster or as a server farm, may host the service provider . Other server architectures may also be used to host the service provider . The service provider computers  are capable of handling requests from many users  and serving, in response, various games, challenges, promotions, unique identifiers, and\/or user interfaces that can be rendered at user computing devices ()-(N).","In one illustrative configuration, the service provider computer  comprises at least a memory  and one or more processing units (or processor(s)) . The processor(s)  may be implemented as appropriate in hardware, software, firmware, or combinations thereof. Software or firmware implementations of the processor(s)  may include computer-executable or machine-executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.","Memory  may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor(s) , as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of service provider computer , memory  may be volatile (such as random access memory (RAM)) and\/or non-volatile (such as read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, etc.). The service provider computer  or server may also include additional removable storage  and\/or non-removable storage  including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical disks, and\/or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer-readable media may provide non-volatile storage of computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules, and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations, the memory  may include multiple different types of memory, such as static random access memory (SRAM), dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or ROM.","The memory , the removable storage , and the non-removable storage  are all examples of computer-readable storage media. For example, computer-readable storage media may include volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Memory , removable storage , and non-removable storage  are all examples of computer storage media. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present include, but are not limited to, programmable random access memory (PRAM), SRAM, DRAM, RAM, ROM, electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), flash memory or other memory technology, compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), digital versatile discs (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the service provider computer  or other computing device. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","Alternatively, computer-readable communication media may include computer-readable instructions, program modules, or other data transmitted within a data signal, such as a carrier wave, or other transmission. However, as used herein, computer-readable storage media does not include computer-readable communication media.","The service provider computer  may also contain communications connection(s)  that allow the service provider computer  to communicate with a stored database, another computing device or server, user terminals, and\/or other devices on a network. The service provider computer  may also include input device(s)  such as a keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, etc., and output device(s) , such as a display, speakers, printer, etc.","Turning to the contents of the memory  in more detail, the memory  may include an operating system  and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a gaming module , a promotions module , a selection module , a unique ID datastore , and\/or a user information datastore . The gaming module  may be configured to receive, store, create, and\/or determine outcomes of games and\/or challenges provided by merchant computers . Additionally, the promotions module  may be configured to receive, store, create, determine, and\/or manage promotions of the merchants and\/or third party vendors.","In some aspects, the selection module  may be configured to select promotions, games, and\/or challenges for presentation or transmittal to the mobile devices . In certain examples, the selection may be based at least in part on user information such as, but not limited to, a location of the mobile device , a location of a merchant or merchant computer , demographic information (e.g., age, address, salary range, etc.), enhanced demographic information (e.g., including additional information provided by the user  or gathered by a third-party, such as using third-party computer ), and\/or purchase behavior of the user . In some examples, the selection module  may be configured to determine a promotion, or list of promotions, to be transmitted to the a user device . Similarly, a list of merchants and\/or games\/challenges may be selected based on the user information.","By way of example only, a user  may have recently purchased a certain number, say four or five, products in the last month. As such, the purchasing history information may indicate that this user  has spent a certain amount of money on a first type of product (e.g., clothing) and a certain amount of money on a second type of product (e.g., computing devices). In this example, the selection module  may then determine that the second type of product cost more money and select a promotion, a game, and\/or a challenge associated with or related to computing devices. Additionally, the selection module  may use the location information  to aid in the selection. That is, promotions, games, and\/or challenges related to computing devices that are closer to, or within a predefined distance from, the mobile device  may be selected. The promotions, games, and\/or challenges may then be transmitted to the mobile device .","In some examples, the unique ID datastore  may be configured to maintain, or otherwise store, the unique IDs that may be used for validating and\/or verifying redemption of a promotion. Additionally, the user information datastore  may be configured to maintain, or otherwise store, the user information such as, but not limited to, the location of the mobile device , the location of a merchant or merchant computer , demographic information (e.g., age, address, salary range, etc.), enhanced demographic information (e.g., including additional information provided by the user  or gathered by a third-party, such as using third-party computer ), and\/or purchase behavior of the user .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","110","112","116","108","112","114","102","114","110"]},"In one embodiment, the service provider computer  may expose, or otherwise provide, an application programming interface (API) or multiple APIs for communicating with the POS devices , the merchant computers , and\/or the third-party computers . More specifically, at a transaction layer , the service provider computers  may provide POS specific APIs  to each, or some, of the POS devices  associated with each, or some, of the merchant computers . For example, a first merchant may utilize a different type of POS device  than a second merchant (e.g., the different POS devices  may be made by different manufacturers, using different standards, and\/or operating with different operating systems or with different architectures). In this example, the transaction layer  is configured to handle each transaction between the POS devices  and the service provider computers .","In any event, each POS device  may communicate with the service provider computers  using different POS specific APIs . As such, at a translation layer , each POS specific API  may be converted (or translated) into a common API  for communication with the loader\/router  of the service provider computers . In some aspects, the loader\/router  may be configured to recognize each POS device communication, for example shown as POS A, B, C, D, . . . , Y, appropriately translate each POS specific API  to the common API , and further route the common API instructions to the appropriate server, for example, Servers , , , . . . , Z.","Instructions, data, unique IDs , games, challenges, promotions, and\/or any other information to be transmitted to the POS devices , mobile devices , merchant computers , and\/or third-party computers  may then be sent from the appropriate server -Z to the loader\/router . Based on the common APIs , this information may then be sent back to the translation layer  for translation back to the POS specific API  instructions. Alternatively, or in addition, third party computers , POS devices , and\/or merchant computers  may communicate directly with the service provider computers  using a standard API. In this example, the translation layer , as well as the POS specific APIs  may not be utilized.","In architecture , the service provider computer  is again shown in communication with merchant computers  and\/or third-party computers  via one or more networks such as networks . Similarly, in some instances, the merchant computers  may be communicatively coupled to one or more POS devices  for processing purchase transactions with the users . POS devices  may also be configured to communicate directly with the service provider computers  to facilitate the providing, managing, and\/or processing of the games, challenges, and\/or promotions",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["150","150","302","304","306","308","310","312","314","316"]},"In some examples, and when appropriate, the unique ID may be provided to the mobile device  of the user  to be presented to the merchant. For example, a mobile code identifier , a smart tag or sticker , a mobile barcode , and\/or an NFC identifier , among others, may be easily transmitted to, and stored thereon, the appropriate mobile device . In other examples, however, the unique ID may be presented to the user  in ways other than electronically via the mobile device . However, the unique ID itself may be stored in a unique ID datastore . Further, the unique ID datastore  may be located in the memory  of the service provider computer , the memory  of a mobile device , and\/or a memory of the merchant computers , POS devices , and\/or third-party computers .","Various instructions, methods and techniques described herein may be considered in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed, such as in a virtual machine or other just-in-time compilation execution environment. Typically, the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on some form of computer-readable storage media.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["152","152","402","404","406","408","410","412","414"]},"In some examples, demographic categories  and\/or purchase history categories  may be predefined by an operator of the service provider computer  or dynamically determined based on demographic and\/or purchase history information maintained in the user information datastore . In some examples, demographic categories  may be based on salary ranges, predetermined classes (e.g., middle class, upper-middle class, etc.), and\/or marital status, while purchase history categories  may be based on general types of products (e.g., automotive, clothing, computing, home, office, etc.), products actually purchased by the users , and\/or other user information. Additionally, in some instances, a user  may define or set user preferences based on personal desires. As such, a user  may set their user preferences such that they receive more promotions, games, and\/or challenges related to certain type of products and\/or services (e.g., a user  may prefer restaurant content, sporting event content, clothing content, or the like). Alternatively, preferences may be defined automatically by the service provider computer based at least in part on the user information, location information, and\/or other available information associated with a user  or a mobile device .","Various instructions, methods and techniques described herein may be considered in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed, such as in a virtual machine or other just-in-time compilation execution environment. Typically, the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on some form of computer-readable storage media.","The example architectures and computing devices shown in  are provided by way of example only. Numerous other operating environments, system architectures, and device configurations are possible. Accordingly, embodiments of the present disclosure should not be construed as being limited to any particular operating environment, system architecture, or device configuration.","Illustrative Processes",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"500"},"The process  includes receiving a promotion, a game and\/or a challenge from a merchant or a third-party vendor at . In one aspect, the promotion, game, and\/or challenge may be provided by the merchant or third-party vendor by filling out a form and\/or creating the game and\/or challenge using a web-based, menu-driven program or application, provided by the service provider computer . At , the process  may receive user and\/or location information associated with a mobile device, such as but not limited to one or more of the mobile devices  shown in . The process  may then determine a promotion, a game, or a challenge for the mobile device  based at least in part on received user and\/or location information at . At , the process  may then determine whether a user  of the mobile device  has selected a promotion, game, or challenge. For example, a list of promotions, games, and\/or challenges may have been presented to the user  based on the received location and\/or user information after . If the user  has not selected a promotion, game, or challenge at , the process  may select a promotion, a game, or a challenge for the user  at  based on the user and\/or location information received. However, if the user  has selected a promotion, game, or challenge at , the process  may instead receive the user selection of the promotion, game, or challenge at .","The process  may then transmit the selected promotion, game, or challenge to the mobile device at . As noted above, the promotion, game, or challenge may be selected by the service provider computer  or by the user . The process  may then receive an event outcome indicator from the mobile device at . In some instances, the event outcome indicator may be the answer provided by a user. However, in other instances, the event outcome indicator may indicate that the answer was correct, that the challenge was completed, or that the game was won. The process may then determine whether the event outcome indicator matches a desired outcome at . This may include comparing the answer provided by the user  to the answer provided by the merchant computer  or the third-party computer .","In some instances, if the process  determines that the event outcome indicator does not match the desired outcome at , then the process may provide an error\/\u201ctry again\u201d message at  and return to receiving user and\/or location information associated with the mobile device  at . Alternatively, if the process  determines at  that the event outcome indicator matches the desired outcome, the process  may provide a promotional offer to the mobile device  at . The process  may then receive a selection of a promotional offer at . For example, a user  may be presented with multiple promotional offers based on completing the challenge and\/or winning the game. At , the process  may then confirm eligibility of the selected promotion and\/or eligibility of the user . Assuming the process  has affirmatively confirmed eligibility at , the process  may then determine and transmit a unique offer code at , such as but not limited to a unique ID from the unique ID datastore . Alternatively, in some instances, the process  may proceed directly to determining and transmitting the unique offer code at  upon determining that the event outcome indicator matches the desired outcome at .","At , the process  may receive an authorization request from a merchant computer  or POS device . In some instances, this authorization request is in response to the user  presenting the unique ID at the merchant's store. The process  may then determine whether the unique offer code, or ID, is valid at . Determining whether the unique ID is valid may include comparing the unique ID against a look-up table containing each previously assigned unique ID. If the unique ID is not validated at , the process  may transmit a non-authorization indication to the mobile device  at  and then proceed to receive user and\/or location information once again at . On the other hand, if the unique ID is validated at , the process may transmit an authorization indication to the mobile device  at . The process  may then complete by receiving a redemption indication at . In some instances, the redemption indication may be received from the merchant computer  or the third-party computer  to indicate that the user  has redeemed the promotion or coupon. This may \u201cunlock\u201d the next game and\/or challenge. Additionally, this may provide an indication that the redeemed promotion or coupon is no longer valid.","Illustrative methods and systems for providing games, challenges, and\/or promotions to mobile devices are described above. Some or all of these systems and methods may, but need not, be implemented at least partially by architectures such as those shown in  above.","Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather, the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The detailed description is set forth with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures, the left-most digit(s) of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. The use of the same reference numbers in different figures indicates similar or identical items.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIGS. 3 and 4","FIGS. 1 and\/or 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
