---
title: Context and application aware selectors
abstract: The middleware presented herein maps a plurality of application user interfaces to a single user experience (i.e. user interface) so that a user is more comfortable with how information is presented. The middleware maps key elements of an original user interface into a standard user interface on a user's device. When a user interface is mapped, information or data is taken from the original user interface and is reconfigured to create the standard user interface displayed to the user. In embodiments, the middleware receives data associated with a user interface for an application, interprets the received data, parses the data, translates the parsed data by determining the correct template map and mapping the parsed data to a standard user interface, and configures the standard user interface with the translated data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104441&OS=09104441&RS=09104441
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09104441
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Computers are ubiquitous, and each application running on a computer, generally, has its own look and feel. Some interfaces are well thought out and user-friendly; other interfaces can frustrate the user or customer. This frustration may lead to dissatisfied customers and lost business opportunities. For example, some websites allow small amounts of customer personalization, such as saved customer information and email reminders, while other websites do not allow personalization.","Unfortunately, user interfaces are locked to each application, some good and some bad, rather than adapting the user interface (UI) to the customer's needs. A user may be more comfortable or accustomed to one or more UIs; however, these UI's may only be used with a few applications.","Typically user interfaces do not consider the context of the user when displaying information to the user, nor do the UIs change depending on the context of the transaction. Additionally, many UIs do not consider the application state; therefore, details about the happenings within the application are ignored and often cause the user to flip between application windows to obtain the information they need.","It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. The embodiments presented herein map a plurality of application interfaces to a single customer or user experience (i.e. user interface) so that the customer or user (hereinafter the term user can refer to a user and\/or a customer) is more comfortable with how information is being presented. Also in the embodiments presented herein, users can stay within an optimal interface model and use that interface as a portal to a variety of applications and data on the backend.","The embodiments include middleware that maps key elements of the original user interface to a standard user interface (UI) on the user's device. Mapping, as performed by the middleware, is a process or method by which one user interface is transformed into a different user interface. When a user interface is mapped, information or data is taken from the original user interface and is reconfigured to create the standard user interface displayed to the user. In embodiments, the middleware receives data associated with a user interface for an application, interprets the received data, parses the data, translates the parsed data by determining the correct template map and mapping the parsed data to a standard user interface, and configures the standard user interface with the translated data.","The standard user interface is the mapped UI presented to the user. The standard UI is the same or similar UI for one or more applications and it is device specific. In embodiments, the standard UI is the final UI mapped according to the standard user interface determined by the device or the user. If the user's device poses limitations as compared with a fully developed interface (e.g. a mobile phone web browser as compared to a computer web browser), the middleware can simplify the fundamental interaction via the mapping and present a simplified UI to the user. Examples of layouts of standard UIs include tiles such as windows mobile, drop-down menus, or rotary selectors such as in Avaya Flare\u2122. In other embodiments, the original UI is mapped to a standard UI on one device and then that same standard UI is updated on a number of devices used by a single user. Therefore, in some embodiments, the standard UI is user specific and is only slightly modified to work on the users various devices.","The standard user interface provided by the middleware has the ability to allow the UI to display and\/or provide the user's context and the context of the transaction. The context may include whether the user is accessing a website or an application for personal or work purposes. The middleware also has the ability to consider the application state when mapping the UI. The middleware allows the user interface display to be modified by this state awareness.","The term \u201cuser interface,\u201d as used herein refers to any means by which a user and a device, machine, or a computer system interact, including the use of hardware (physical components), input devices, UI devices, and software (logical components). A user interface provides a means of input, allowing the user to manipulate a system, and\/or output, and allowing the system to indicate the effects of the users' manipulation.","The terms \u201capplication user interface data\u201d and \u201capplication UI data\u201d as used herein refer to any data typically sent from an application to the user interface on a device or data sent from an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d). The application UI data may be sent from any database, API, or other medium capable of sending application UI data, including but not limited to the following: an API, a database connected through an API, a database in the application, a database in a different application, a database on the device, a database on an external server, a database on an external device, a database on a network, or any other database, module, or other medium with which the application is in communication.","The term \u201cstandard user interface,\u201d as used herein refers to any user interface that is the same for two or more applications. A standard user interface can be used by the middleware described herein to provide a standard look and feel to the user, as described in conjunction with , B, C, and D. The user may modify the standard user interface, but the standard UI will be consistent for the applications that use the middleware and\/or the standard UI.","The term \u201cuser interface template,\u201d as used herein refers to any general, plain, blank and\/or partially blank user interface that serves as a starting point or model, for which the device described herein can modify or complete, to create the user interface displayed to the user, as described in conjunction with , B, C, and D.","The term \u201ctemplate map,\u201d as used herein refers to any instructions defining a location or any other data for a UI device, a field, a region, or data in the standard user interface. The template map may describe how different types of information and data are arranged in a user interface template, as described in conjunction with . A template map may be a function that transforms one type of data into another type of data. The template map defines a specific relationship between the original data and the target, or output, data and acts as a mediator between an original user interface and the standard user interface.","The terms \u201cmap\u201d or \u201cmapping,\u201d as used herein refer to any process or method by which one user interface is transformed into a different user interface. When a user interface is mapped, information or data is taken from an original user interface and is reconfigured to create the standard user interface displayed to the user. Mapping can be performed at different levels: operation mapping, where an operation in one interface is bound to an operation in another interface; and parameter mappings, where a parameter in one interface is bound to a parameter in another interface.","The term \u201cregion,\u201d as used herein refers to any section of or location on a user interface template, an original UI, or a standard UI designated as a region, as described in conjunction with , A, B, C, and D. User interfaces are typically broken down into regions to distinguish where different information or data will be displayed to a user.","The terms \u201cuser interface device\u201d or \u201cUI device\u201d as used herein refer to any selectable or non-selectable characters associated with the operation of the UI. A user interface device also includes any graphical representation of application data displayed to a user on a user interface, as described in conjunction with , A, B, C, and D. A user interface device includes buttons, menus, drop-down menus, lists, etc. on which the user can click or select.","The term \u201cfield,\u201d as used herein refers to any information or data displayed to a user on a user interface as part of a user interface device. A field is a type of information or data relating to the user interface device, as described in conjunction with , A, B, C, and D. As an example, if the user interface device is a contact card then one field may be a contact's name and another field may be a contact's address.","The term \u201ccontext,\u201d as used herein refers to one or more of the following: a device state (e.g., an application running and\/or sending data), an application state (e.g., what is occurring within an application or what data a user has selected or requested from the application), and data from other applications (e.g., a day of the week and a time of day to determine if a task is work-related or personal).","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, NVRAM, or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, magneto-optical medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, a solid state medium like a memory card, any other memory chip or cartridge, or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer-readable media is configured as a database, it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database, such as relational, hierarchical, object-oriented, and\/or the like. Accordingly, the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art-recognized equivalents and successor media, in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.","The term \u201ccommunication device\u201d or \u201ccommunication endpoint\u201d as used herein refers to any hardware device and\/or software operable to engage in a communication session. For example, a communication device can be an IP-enabled phone, a desktop phone, a cellular phone, a personal digital assistant, a soft-client telephone program executing on a computer system, etc. In embodiments, the communication endpoint is a computer system as described in conjunction with .","The term \u201cnetwork\u201d as used herein refers to a system used by a communication platform to provide communications between communication endpoints. The network can consist of one or more session managers, feature servers, communication endpoints, etc. that allow communications, whether voice or data, between two users. A network can be any network or communication system as described in conjunction with , , and . Generally, a network can be a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless LAN, a wireless WAN, the Internet, etc. that receives and transmits messages or data between devices to facilitate communication platform activities. A network may communicate in any format or protocol known in the art, such as, transmission control protocol\/internet protocol (TCP\/IP), 802.11g, 802.11n, Bluetooth, or other formats or protocols.","The term \u201cdatabase,\u201d \u201carchive,\u201d or \u201cdata structure\u201d as used herein refers to any system, hardware, software, memory, storage device, firmware, component, etc., that stores data. The data model can be any type of database or storage framework described in conjunction with , , and ., which is stored on any type of non-transitory, tangible computer readable medium. A database can include one or more data structures, which may comprise one or more sections or portions that store an item of data. A section may include, depending on the type of data structure, an attribute of an object, a data field, or other types of sections included in one or more types of data structures. The data structure can represent a text string or be a component of any type of database, for example, relational databases, flat file databases, object-oriented databases, or other types of databases. Further, the data structures can be stored in memory or memory structures that may be used in either run-time applications or in initializing a communication.","The phrases \u201cat least one\u201d, \u201cone or more,\u201d and \u201cand\/or\u201d are open-ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example, each of the expressions \u201cat least one of A, B and C\u201d, \u201cat least one of A, B, or C\u201d, \u201cone or more of A, B, and C\u201d, \u201cone or more of A, B, or C\u201d and \u201cA, B, and\/or C\u201d means A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, or A, B and C together.","The term \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such, the terms \u201ca\u201d (or \u201can\u201d), \u201cone or more\u201d and \u201cat least one\u201d can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d and \u201chaving\u201d can be used interchangeably.","The term \u201cautomatic\u201d and variations thereof, as used herein, refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However, a process or operation can be automatic, even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input, if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be \u201cmaterial.\u201d","The terms \u201cdetermine\u201d, \u201ccalculate\u201d and \u201ccompute,\u201d and variations thereof, as used herein, are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology, process, mathematical operation or technique.","The term \u201cmodule\u201d refers to any known or later developed hardware, software, firmware, artificial intelligence, fuzzy logic, or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also, while the various concepts are described in terms of exemplary embodiments, it should be appreciated that aspects can be separately claimed.","Hereinafter, \u201cin communication\u201d shall mean any electrical connection, whether wireless or wired, that allows two or more systems, components, modules, devices, etc. to exchange data, signals, or other information using any protocol or format.","The preceding is a simplified summary to provide an understanding of some aspects of the embodiments. This summary is neither an extensive nor exhaustive overview of the various embodiments. It is intended neither to identify key or critical elements nor to delineate the scope of the embodiments but to present selected concepts in a simplified form as an introduction to the more detailed description presented below. As will be appreciated, other embodiments are possible utilizing, alone or in combination, one or more of the features set forth above or described in detail below.","In the appended Figs., similar components and\/or features may have the same reference label. Further, various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification, the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.","The ensuing description provides embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope, applicability, or configuration of the embodiments. Rather, the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the embodiments as set forth in the appended claims.","A network system  for exchanging information over a network  is shown in . The network system  can include one or more components or devices in communication with each other. The devices in the network system  may be hardware and\/or software and may function as computer systems with components similar to those described in conjunction with . In embodiments, the network system  can include a user device or communication device , one or more servers  and\/or , and\/or one or more other components, user devices , or communication devices , as is represented by an ellipsis .","A user device  can include hardware and\/or software, such as a processor and memory, as described in conjunction with . The user device  can be any communication device, computing device, mobile device, laptop, tablet computer, desktop computer, or other type of device that can communicate with a network  or with other devices. These communications can be over any network , such as a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), an Ethernet network, a Token-Ring network and\/or the like; a wide-area network; a virtual network, including without limitation a virtual private network (\u201cVPN\u201d); the Internet; an intranet; an extranet; a public switched telephone network (\u201cPSTN\u201d); an infra-red network; a wireless network (e.g., a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols, the Bluetooth\u2122 protocol art, and\/or any other wireless protocol); and\/or any combination of these and\/or other networks.","The servers  and  may be hardware and\/or software (including a processor and memory) and may be functioning as a computer system, as described in conjunction with . Thus, at least one of the servers  and\/or  is operable to communicate with one or more user devices  through the network . In embodiments, at least one of the servers  and\/or  is operable to transmit data to a user device .","An embodiment of a user device  is shown in . The user device  may include one or more components, which may include hardware and\/or software. The components herein may be described as software modules but the user device  is not so limited. The components within the user device  can include one or more of, but are not limited to, a user interface , middleware , a network interface  connected to the network , and an application store . The user interface  may be as described in conjunction with , B, C, and D. Further, the middleware  can provide a standardized user interface , which may be as shown in , C, and D, that can interact with a user of the user device . The middleware is further described in conjunction with , , A, and B.","The application store  can contain different applications for execution on the user device . In embodiments, an application  is executed on the processor. One or more applications  and\/or APIs are operable to send data to one or more of the middleware  and\/or the user interface . One or more applications  and\/or APIs may be in communication with the network  and able to send data to and receive data from the network  through the network interface .","An embodiment of the middleware  is shown in . The method for providing a standard user interface on a user device  is further described in conjunction with , A and B. In one embodiment, the middleware  is executed on the processor. The middleware  is operable to receive  data, including application UI data, from either the application , an original user interface , the application store , the network , or an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d). In one embodiment, the middleware  is operable to interpret and parse  the received data. The middleware  is operable to translate  the received data into a standard user interface  based on a user interface template, which may be as further explained in , A, and B. The standard user interface  may be as shown in  as and , respectively. A standard user interface template may be as shown in  as . One embodiment of a method of translation performed by a translation module  of the middleware  is further described in conjunction with . As part of the translation module , the middleware  may be operable to evaluate a context  of the application UI data or the user device  and use this context to determine which template map to use from a template mapping database . The template map may be a map to a standard user interface  or to another UI and may be as described in conjunction with . The middleware  is operable to select and retrieve a template map from the template mapping database . The middleware  is operable to use the template map to map the application UI data to the standard UI or to another desired UI. The middleware  is operable to con the translated application UI data into the standard user interface .","An embodiment of incoming application user interface data  is shown in . The application UI data  can include different portions or fields, which represent segments of the application UI data  where certain types of information are stored. These portions can include a header  and data . Other segments containing other types of information may be included in the application UI data  as is represented by an ellipsis .","The header  can include information that facilitates the communication of information. Thus, the header  can include the destination and\/or the origin of the application UI data . The header  may also include other information to synchronize the application U! data , such as a data offset, a data length, or other information that allows a user device  or a server  to accept the application UI data . In embodiments, the header  includes information about the data, such as a source, time stamp, etc. associated with the application UI data . In one embodiment, the header  information can be used by the receiver to determine how to process the application UI data . In embodiments, the header  may contain information about which template map from the template mapping database  is associated with the application UI data . Further, the header  information can provide a context about the application UI data .","The data field  can store the data  or content that is being transferred between the different devices. The data  can include presentation materials, documents, or other information that may be exchanged between the application  and the user interface  on the user device  or between the user device  and a server . The data  may be encapsulated in one or more protocols or forms that may be accepted by the user device  or the server .","A template mapping database  is shown in . Embodiments of template maps  and  for user interfaces associated with application  and application , respectively, are shown within the template mapping database  in . Map sections  and  may further include one or more portions , , and\/or  and , , and\/or , respectively. Map section  includes a data  portion, a region ID portion, a UI device ID portion, and possible other portions, as is represented by the ellipsis . The portions , , , , , and  may be a UI field , (or  and  as shown in ), a UI device ID , a region ID  or , a piece of data (data   or data  ), or other application UI data . The region ID  or  identifies in which region data   or data   will be presented to the user, as further described in conjunction with , B, C, and D. The region ID  or  tells the user interface in which region (as shown in  as , , , and ) on the device screen to display the data   or data  . The UI device ID  indicates to which UI device the data   belongs. A UI device is any selectable or non-selectable character associated with the operation of the user interface. A UI device also includes any graphical representation of application data displayed to a user on a user interface, as further described in conjunction with , B, C, and D. A user interface device includes buttons, menus, drop-down menus, lists, etc. on which the user can click or select. A field  is any information or data displayed to a user on a user interface as part of a UI device. A field is a type of data relating to the UI device, as further described in conjunction with , B, C, and D. As an example, if a UI device is a contact card then one field may be a contact's name, another field may be a contact's address or email address, and another field may be a contact's phone number.","The map sections , , and  can include more or fewer portions , , , , , and\/or  than those shown in , as represented by ellipses , , and . The template maps  and  can contain more or less map sections , , and , as represented by an ellipsis . Furthermore, the map sections , , and  can be arranged in a different order than shown in .","The template mapping database  contains template maps  and , which the middleware  to can use to map application UI data  to a standard UI . The database may contain more or fewer template maps as is represented by an ellipsis . The template maps  and  may or may not differ with different applications . In one embodiment, each application  has its own template map  or . In another embodiment, the middleware  selects a template map  or  based on the characteristics of the application  and\/or the characteristics of the application UI data . As an example, if the application UI data  received by the middleware  has characteristics that are similar to the characteristics of application UI data  for displaying contact information to a user on a user interface , then the middleware  will select and use a template map  or  that it uses for contact information applications. The middleware  uses the template map  or  to standardize the original application user interface  to the standard user interface . The template maps  and  also define a location for a UI device or a field  in the standard user interface . The template maps  and  tell the middleware  how to configure the data such that the user interface  knows where and how to display the application UI data  to the user on the user device  user interface .","In embodiments, the map sections , , and  contain user interface data  or , a region ID  or , and\/or a UI device ID  and\/or the field . In one embodiment, the data  and  contains the information to be displayed to the user. The region IDs  and  contain information as to where on the user interface  the information will be displayed to the user. The region ID  or  may correlate to a region shown in , such as Region  , Region  , Region  , or Region  . In the embodiments, the template maps  and  use the standard UI template to instruct the middleware  as to how to configure the original application UI data so that the UI  seen by the user is the standard UI .","In embodiments, each piece of application UI data  being mapped into the standard UI  is associated with a region, UI device, field , and\/or other part of the user interface . For example, data (a contact's name) is associated with a field (contact name) of a UI device (a contact card) displayed in a region (Region  of the standard UI template shown in ). The original application UI data may already be associated with a device, field, region, and\/or other part of a UI  when the application UI data  is received by the middleware , or the middleware  may associate the application UI data  with the desired field, UI device, region, and\/or other part of the user interface . The middleware  associates the application UI data  with a UI device, field, region, and\/or other part of the UI  by looking at the characteristics of the original application UI data, using the template maps  and  and the standard UI template . The association basically determines where the application UI data  will be displayed on the screen to the user. Using the template maps  and , the middleware  decides where to place the data on the standard UI  and associates the data so that the data will be placed in the correct location on the standard UI .","In embodiments, the UI device ID  contains information as to which UI device, within the region, data is associated. In other words, a UI device ID  may be a number given to each UI device so that the middleware  and the UI  know to which UI device the data pertains and where on the UI  the data should be displayed to the user. The UI device may include, for example, a contact card (as shown in  as ), a button to call the contact, a button to email the contact, a product card (as shown in  as ), a button to order the product, and\/or any other selectable or non-selectable UI device displayed to the user on the UI . The UI device may also include menus, drop-down menus, lists, etc. on which a user can click or select. The UI device ID  may be a number relating to a specific UI device. The field  contains the information that will be displayed to the user within the UI device on the user interface . The field  may include, for example, a contact's name (as shown in  as ), a contact's phone number (as shown in  as ), a contact's address, a contact's email address, product  (as shown in  as ), product  (as shown in  as ), the product's name (as shown in  as ), the product's price (as shown in  as ), the product's shipping options or price, or any other information relating to a UI device. The field  may have a specific number such that the middleware  and UI  know where and how to display the field  to the user on the user interface , for example 1 (as shown in  as field  ) or 2 (as shown in  as field  ). In the example, the middleware  and UI  know that field  (as shown in  as ) is displayed in the UI device (as shown in  as ) above field  (as shown in  as ), which is also displayed in the same UI device (as shown in  as ).","Embodiments of a user interface  presented to a user on a user device  are shown in , B, C, and D as , , , and respectively. The user interface  can be displayed on a user device , as explained in conjunction with . In one embodiment, the user interface  can present information to a user and allow for the user to provide inputs through one or more selectable UI devices , , , , , , , , , , and\/or on the user interface , , , , and . In embodiments, the UI devices may or may not be selectable.","An embodiment of a standard user interface template is shown in . The user may or may not set the standard user interface template . The standard user interface template acts as a model to be used by the middleware  to create a standard user interface , , or to be displayed to the user. In embodiments, there are four regions , , , and . There may be more or fewer regions in a standard user interface template . In an embodiment, Region   contains a spotlight  to highlight the selected item, contact, or other UI device  or . In an embodiment, Region   contains a rolodex  of different UI devices  for the user to select. The UI devices  and  may display contacts, applications, or other information. The UI device  contains field   and field  . Each field  and\/or  displays information associated with the UI device . The fields  and  are associated with the UI device  either because the application  associates the fields  and  with the UI device , the middleware  associated the field with the UI device , an API associates the fields  and  with the UI device , or the fields  and  are somehow associated with the UI device  through another means. The UI device  may contain more or less fields  and  than is displayed in , as represented by the ellipsis . In an embodiment, Region   also contains a rolodex  of different UI devices  for the user to select. The UI device  may contain other information than the UI device  in Region  . The UI device  can also contain the same or different fields than the UI device  in Region  . The field or fields in the UI device  display information associated with the UI device , meaning that the field or fields and\/or information contained in the field or fields are somehow related to the UI device . The UI device  may contain more or fewer fields than is shown in . In an embodiment, Region   can contain other information desired by the user. The information may relate to the selected item in the spotlight  or one of the selected UI devices  or .","An embodiment of an email or a contact list application user interface before it is mapped into the standard UI is shown in . In one embodiment, the original UI contains four regions , , , and . In an embodiment, Region   contains selectable and\/or non-selectable UI devices  and . More or fewer UI devices  or  may be present in Region   as is represented by the ellipsis . The UI devices  and  may be contacts; emails; files; buttons, such as email, delete, or reply; or any other UI device or button. In an embodiment, Region   contains one or more UI devices . The UI device  may be filed emails or the user's email history. The UI device  may also contain fields, such as different emails. More or fewer fields may be displayed, as is represented by an ellipsis . In an embodiment, Region   contains one or more selected contact or email message . The selected contact  may also be displayed with fields such as the contact's  name  or phone number . More or fewer fields  and\/or  associated with the contact  may be displayed, as is represented by an ellipsis . In an embodiment, Region   contains one or more UI devices . The UI device  may be contacts. The UI device  may also contain fields , , and\/or  such as different contacts. More or fewer fields , , and\/or  may be displayed, as is represented by an ellipsis .","In , the UI device: emails  may or may not be mapped into the standard user interface , shown in . Additionally, more or fewer email fields may be displayed as is represented by the ellipsis .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 4C","FIGS. 4B and 4C","FIG. 4C","FIG. 4C","FIG. 4B"],"b":["202","202","202","202"],"i":["b ","b ","c ","a"]},"In an embodiment, an original Region   is mapped to the new Region  . The same is true for original Region  , Region  , and Region  , which are mapped to Region  , Region  , and Region  , respectively. The middleware  may map the original regions , , , and  to the new regions , , , and through different means. In one embodiment, the middleware  maps the regions by following settings set by the user. The user may set the middleware  to map the original email or contact application into the standard UI in a specific way set by the user. In another embodiment, the middleware  maps the regions by knowing that original Region   contains information similar to the information found in Region   of the standard UI template and knowing that Region   of the standard UI template is mapped to Region  of the standard UI . In another embodiment, the middleware  maps the regions by looking at the characteristics of the information contained in original Region   and seeing that the characteristics are similar to the characteristics of the data in Region   of the standard UI template . In another embodiment, the middleware  maps the regions by using some other method known in the art.","The different UI devices  and  that a user may select from the original Region   are mapped to a rolodex in Region  of the standard user interface . In an embodiment, the middleware  maps the original UI devices , , , and\/or  to the various rolodexes and using the standard UI template . In the embodiment, the middleware  knows that the rolodexes and are composed of UI devices and because the rolodexes  and  in the standard UI template are composed of UI devices  and . In an embodiment, the rolodex contains other available UI devices, which may be other applications available to the user. The other applications may or may not have been the UI devices  and  in the original UI . In an embodiment, the user selects any UI device, such as contacts , and the selected UI device is displayed as the chosen UI device in the rolodex in Region  . Contacts  were originally displayed in Region   of the original UI , and now are displayed in Region  . The middleware  may know to map the contacts  from the original Region   to Region  because the user set the middleware  to map the original UI contacts  in such a manner. In another embodiment, the middleware may use the standard UI template and see that contacts are in Region  , thus the original contacts  should be mapped to Region  of the standard UI . In the embodiment, fields and may be different contacts (contact  and contact  ) and the contacts are mapped from the original fields  and  (field : contact   and field : contact  ). The contacts  and  may be mapped in this way because the user set the standard UI to map contacts  and  in this manner. In another embodiment, the middleware  may map the contacts  and  to and because the characteristics of the data of the original contacts  and  is similar to the fields and in the standard UI . More or fewer fields may be shown as is represented by the ellipsis ","In an embodiment , the user may select a contact from the list in Region  . The selected contact's information was originally displayed in Region   of the original UI , and after the mapping, the selected contact will be displayed as a contact card in Region  . The contact card is a UI device and contains fields, such as the contact name and phone number . The fields and are associated with the UI device . In one embodiment, the information for these fields and comes directly from fields  and  in the original UI . More or fewer fields may be displayed, as is represented by the ellipsis . Additionally, in an embodiment, the standard UI puts a picture  of the selected contact in a spotlight  in Region  . In embodiments, Region  can also contain other selectable UI devices, such as a call button, email button, etc. (not shown). These buttons may allow the user to call or email the selected contact with the click of a button. In one embodiment, the last instant message or email message  from the selected contact can be displayed in Region  ","In embodiments, a user may select contacts from the rolodex as the UI device in Region  . Contacts are then listed in the fields and . More fields may be displayed as is shown by the ellipses . Contact cards are now displayed in the rolodex in Region  . The contact cards are the UI devices. The fields of the contact card include the contact's name and the contact's phone number . More fields may be displayed as is shown by an ellipsis . The user can select a contact from the rolodex in Region  . The contact's picture  will appear in the spotlight  of Region  . Selectable UI devices, such as buttons, (not shown) may also be present in Region  allowing the user to call or email the highlighted contact  and . In an embodiment, Region  will display the last message or email  from the highlighted contact  and ","In another embodiment, the user or application  may be using a protocol, such as LDAP for example, to gain access to the data in Region   or , rather than from the original UI . The embodiment can also be described in conjunction with  where the original UI  is now a protocol . The protocol  now sends the data to the middleware . Often times it is easier to get the data and\/or the application UI data  via development interfaces or protocols  rather than from the original UI  directly. The embodiment covers the middleware  receiving  data from development interfaces, protocols , APIs, an original UI , and other methods of receiving data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 4D","FIG. 4D","FIG. 4D","FIG. 4A","FIGS. 4A and 4D","FIG. 4D","FIG. 4D","FIG. 4A"],"b":["202","202","202","202"],"i":["d ","a","d","a "]},"In embodiments, Region  displays the customer information . In the example shown in , Region  contains a rolodex with UI devices such as orders for the customer  shown in Region  . The user may select an order (which is a selectable UI device) and the fields and of the order will display the products and ordered by the customer  in the selected order . More or fewer products\/fields and\/or may be displayed in the order , as is represented by an ellipsis . In embodiments, the rolodex in Region  now displays the product cards for the products ordered in the selected order . The product card may contain fields such as the product name  and\/or the product price . More or fewer fields may be shown on the product card as is represented by an ellipsis . The user may select a product card from the rolodex in Region  . The selected product will be highlighted in the spotlight in Region  . In one embodiment, the spotlight can contain a picture of the product . Selectable UI devices, such as buttons, for example, which may include an order button or track shipment button, may be available in Region  for the user to select.","In other embodiments, the original UI is mapped to a standard UI on one user device , and then that same standard UI is updated on a number of user devices  used by a single user. Therefore, in some embodiments, the standard UI is user specific and is only slightly modified to work on the users various user devices .","In other embodiments, users can stay within an optimal interface model, the standard UI , , or , and use that standard UI , , or as a portal to a variety of applications  and data on the backend.","An embodiment of a method  utilizing the middleware  in a system to standardize a user interface  is shown in . A general order for the steps of the method  is shown in . Generally, the method  starts with a start operation  and ends with an end operation . The method  can include more or fewer steps and\/or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method  can be executed as a set of computer-executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter, the method  shall be explained with reference to the systems, components, modules, software, data structures, user interfaces, etc. described in conjunction with .","In an embodiment, a user can open an application  on a user device , in step . The user can open or start the application by selecting a user interface device on the user device . The device processor will receive data associated with a user interface  in a request to execute an application. The processor will execute the application  and the middleware . Upon starting the application , the application  can request application UI data from a database on a server , on the user device , on the network , or from any other accessible source, in step .","Upon requesting the data, either step  or step  can be performed. If the server , user device , or other source sends the requested information back to the application , then step  is performed. If the server , user device , or other source sends the requested information to the middleware , then step  is performed. If step  is performed, then the application  can send the requested information to the middleware  in step . If step  is performed, then step  need not be performed.","The middleware  is executed and the middleware  maps the data in step . Mapping  is the step, method, or process that the middleware  performs in order to transform original application UI data into standard user interface data. When the middleware  maps the original UI  into the standard UI , information or data is taken from the original user interface  and is reconfigured to create the standard user interface  displayed to the user. The middleware  can perform the mapping step  at different levels: operation mapping, where an operation in one interface is bound to an operation in another interface; and parameter mappings, where a parameter in one interface is bound to a parameter in another interface. Mapping  is further described in conjunction with .","Once the middleware  has mapped the data , the middleware  sends the mapped data to the UI  in the correct configuration, in step . Once the UI  receives the correctly configured application UI data, the UI  can render the mapped data to the user in the standardized UI format, in step . In step , the UI  displays the data in the standard UI to the user. Upon completion of step , the user should be able to view and interact with the data using the user interface . Furthermore, the UI  displayed to the user should look like the standard UI .","An embodiment of a method  for mapping data, as shown in step  of  and as performed by the middleware , is shown in . A general order for the steps of the method  is shown in . Generally, the method  starts with a start operation  and ends with an end operation . The method  can include more or fewer steps and\/or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method  can be executed as a set of computer-executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter, the method  shall be explained with reference to the systems, components, modules, software, data structures, user interfaces, etc. described in conjunction with ","In step , the middleware  receives the application UI data from an application , from a database on a user device , or from any other source.","Upon receiving the application UI data , the middleware  interprets and parses  the data , in step . In embodiments, interpretation can mean determining the type of data received, such as determining whether the data  is an application user interface data and, if so, whether the data  contains contact information, email information, product order information, etc. The middleware  can interpret the application UI data  by looking at the header  of the data . The middleware  can also determine whether the data  contains a region ID  or , a UI device ID , and\/or a field . In another embodiment, the middleware  interprets the application UI data  by looking at the information contained in the data section , , or  of the application UI data .","Once the middleware  interprets the application UI data , the middleware  can also parse the data , in step . Parsing the data  can involve separating the data  into its portions , , , , , and . The portions , , , , , and\/or  may include the data segment , the UI field , , or , the UI device ID , the region ID , and\/or The middleware  translates the parsed data into standard UI, in step . Step  is further discussed below in conjunction with .","The middleware  configures the translated data, in step . The configuration step  may include reassembling the data into a format that is acceptable to the user interface  on the user device . The acceptable format will depend on the UI  and the user device . Additionally, the configuration will depend on the standard user interface. The middleware  may use a template map  or  to configure the data in the correct order and format. The data must be configured such that the UI  will properly display the data in the standard UI format.","The middleware  sends the configured data to the UI, in step . At this point, the middleware  has finished mapping the application UI data . Once the UI receives the configured data, the UI can display the data to the user in the form of the standard user interface, in step .","An embodiment of a method  for translating data, step  in  and as performed by the middleware , is shown in . A general order for the steps of the method  is shown in . Generally, the method  starts with a start operation  and ends with an end operation . The method  can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method  can be executed as a set of computer-executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter, the method  shall be explained with reference to the systems, components, modules, software, data structures, user interfaces, etc. described in conjunction with .","The middleware  may, after interpreting and parsing the application UI data , in step , receive the parsed data, in step . The middleware  can evaluate the context of the data, in step . The context evaluation may be based on a device state, an application state, a different application's state, and\/or other factors. Factors that may be considered when evaluating the device state include the application currently being executed by the processor, other applications being executed by the processor, and other information from other applications, such as the date and time. The device state may allow the middleware  to determine whether the user is currently using the user device  for work or personal reasons. The application state may include the processes within the application  that are currently being executed. The application state may also include whether the application  is receiving input from the user or requesting data from a database or other source of data.","Based on the context and\/or the interpretation of the application UI data , the middleware determines the template map type, in step . A template map type may be a contact template map, a product template map, an order template map, or any other type of template map. Two or more applications may use the same template map type.","In step , which may be based on the template map type determined in step , the middleware can determine which template map  or  is the correct template map  or  for the specific application  and\/or the context determined in step . If there is only one template map  or  for the chosen template map type, then step  will not need to be performed because once the template map type is determined, the template map is known.","Upon the middleware determining the correct template map  or  in step , the middleware selects the template map  or  from the template mapping database . In step , the middleware can map the parsed data received in step , into a standard UI template based on the selected template map  or . The standard UI template may be a standard UI template chosen by the user. In step , the middleware takes each portion of the parsed data and puts that portion into the correct location in the template map  or . The template map  and  contains instructions telling the middleware how to map the application UI data into the standard UI by instructing the middleware to put the various portions of the parsed data into various locations in the template map. For example, Region  of the original UI may correlate to Region  in the standard UI. Therefore, the template map will instruct the middleware to give certain data from the original Region  a region ID correlating to Region  of the standard UI.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","700","705","710","715","705","710","715","705","710","715","705","710","715","720","700"]},"Computing environment  further includes a network . The network  can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially-available protocols, including without limitation SIP, TCP\/IP, SNA, IPX, AppleTalk, and the like. Merely by way of example, the network  maybe a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), such as an Ethernet network, a Token-Ring network and\/or the like; a wide-area network; a virtual network, including without limitation a virtual private network (\u201cVPN\u201d); the Internet; an intranet; an extranet; a public switched telephone network (\u201cPSTN\u201d); an infra-red network; a wireless network (e.g., a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols, the Bluetooth\u2122 protocol known in the art, and\/or any other wireless protocol); and\/or any combination of these and\/or other networks. The network  may be the same or similar to network .","The system may also include one or more server computers , . One server may be a web server , which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers , , and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above, as well as any commercially-available server operating systems. The web server  can also run a variety of server applications, including SIP servers, HTTP servers, FTP servers, CGI servers, database servers, Java servers, and the like. In some instances, the web server  may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.","The computing environment  may also include one or more file and or\/application servers , which can, in addition to an operating system, include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers , , . The server(s)  may be one or more general-purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers ,  and . As one example, the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language, such as Java\u2122, C, C#\u2122, or C++, and\/or any scripting language, such as Perl, Python, or TCL, as well as combinations of any programming\/scripting languages. The application server(s)  may also include database servers, including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle, Microsoft, Sybase\u2122, IBM\u2122 and the like, which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .","The web pages created by the web application server  may be forwarded to a user computer  via a web server . Similarly, the web server  may be able to receive web page requests, web services invocations, and\/or input data from a user computer  and can forward the web page requests and\/or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments, the server  may function as a file server. Although for ease of description,  illustrates a separate web server  and file\/application server , those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers ,  may be performed by a single server and\/or a plurality of specialized servers, depending on implementation-specific needs and parameters. The computer systems , , and , file server  and\/or application server  may function as the active host  and\/or the standby host .","The computing environment  may also include a database . The database  may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example, database  may reside on a storage medium local to (and\/or resident in) one or more of the computers , , , , . Alternatively, it may be remote from any or all of the computers , , , , , and in communication (e.g., via the network ) with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments, the database  may reside in a storage-area network (\u201cSAN\u201d) familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly, any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers , , , ,  may be stored locally on the respective computer and\/or remotely, as appropriate. In one set of embodiments, the database  may be a relational database, such as Oracle 10i\u2122, that is adapted to store, update, and retrieve data in response to SQL-formatted commands.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","855","805","810","815","800","820","820"]},"The computer system  may additionally include a computer-readable storage media reader ; a communications system  (e.g., a modem, a network card (wireless or wired), an infra-red communication device, etc.); and working memory , which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments, the computer system  may also include a processing acceleration unit , which can include a DSP, a special-purpose processor, and\/or the like.","The computer-readable storage media reader  can further be connected to a computer-readable storage medium, together (and, optionally, in combination with storage device(s) ) comprehensively representing remote, local, fixed, and\/or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and\/or more permanently containing computer-readable information. The communications system  may permit data to be exchanged with the network  and\/or any other computer described above with respect to the computer system . Moreover, as disclosed herein, the term \u201cstorage medium\u201d may represent one or more devices for storing data, including read only memory (ROM), random access memory (RAM), magnetic RAM, core memory, magnetic disk storage mediums, optical storage mediums, flash memory devices and\/or other machine readable mediums for storing information.","The computer system  may also comprise software elements, shown as being currently located within a working memory , including an operating system  and\/or other code . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system  may have numerous variations from that described above. For example, customized hardware might also be used and\/or particular elements might be implemented in hardware, software (including portable software, such as applets), or both. Further, connection to other computing devices such as network input\/output devices may be employed.","In the foregoing description, for the purposes of illustration, methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments, the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine-executable instructions, which may be used to cause a machine, such as a general-purpose or special-purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine-executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums, such as CD-ROMs or other type of optical disks, floppy diskettes, ROMs, RAMs, EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, flash memory, or other types of machine-readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively, the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.","Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example, circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances, well-known circuits, processes, algorithms, structures, and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.","Also, it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart, a flow diagram, a data flow diagram, a structure diagram, or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process, many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition, the order of the operations may be re-arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed, but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method, a function, a procedure, a subroutine, a subprogram, etc. When a process corresponds to a function, its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.","Furthermore, embodiments may be implemented by hardware, software, firmware, middleware, microcode, hardware description languages, or any combination thereof. When implemented in software, firmware, middleware or microcode, the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor(s) may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure, a function, a subprogram, a program, a routine, a subroutine, a module, a software package, a class, or any combination of instructions, data structures, or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and\/or receiving information, data, arguments, parameters, or memory contents. Information, arguments, parameters, data, etc. may be passed, forwarded, or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing, message passing, token passing, network transmission, etc.","While illustrative embodiments n have been described in detail herein, it is to be understood that the concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed, and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations, except as limited by the prior art."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure is described in conjunction with the appended Figs.:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A","b":["4","4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
