---
title: Modeling and consuming business policy rules
abstract: Concepts and technologies are described herein for modeling and consuming business policy rules. A policy server executes a policy application for modeling and storing the business policy rules. The business policy rules are modeled and stored in a data storage device according to an extensible policy framework architecture that can be tailored by administrators or other entities to support business-specific needs and/or operations. The modeled business policy rules can be used to support enforcement of business policy rules against various business operations, as well as allowing histories and/or other audits of business policy rules to be completed based upon information stored as the business policy rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08726286&OS=08726286&RS=08726286
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08726286
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110513
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/473,500, filed on Apr. 8, 2011, entitled \u201cModeling and Consuming Business Policy Rules,\u201d the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Companies and other organizations sometimes organize themselves using one or more business structures. The business structures can be determined and\/or defined based upon the organizations' operations or other factors. For example, some organizations have a financial structure, an operating structure, a purchasing structure, a reporting structure, and other structures to govern various aspects of operations associated with the organization. Processes performed by the organizations can span one or more of these structures, some or each of which can have operating controls and\/or policies that are particular to each of the respective structures.","Managing the controls and\/or policies of varied structures of an organization can be difficult. In particular, internal controls spanning the structures may be managed manually, making creation or modification of controls difficult and time consuming. Furthermore, tracking changes of the controls over time may be impossible, or even if possible, may require labor-intensive research and\/or reconstruction. Similarly, removing or modifying the controls can require manual modification of the controls, creating delays in activation or deactivation of the controls.","It is with respect to these and other considerations that the disclosure made herein is presented.","Concepts and technologies are described herein for modeling and consuming business policy rules. In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein, a policy server executes a policy application for modeling and storing the business policy rules. As used herein, a \u201cbusiness policy rule\u201d is a rule, policy, or other control for governing if, how, and\/or when functionality associated with particular business processes and\/or organizations are or are not allowed to be completed. Thus, business policy rules include information defining organizations subject to control, business processes, actions, or other tasks subject to control, and the types of controls that are imposed on the organizations and\/or business processes. The business policy rules disclosed herein also include information defining effective dates and\/or termination dates of specific business policy rules, allowing the business policy rules to be made effective on particular dates.","The business policy rules are modeled and stored in a data storage device according to an extensible policy framework architecture. As such, a logical model defining the business policy rules can be tailored by administrators or other entities to support business-specific needs and\/or operations. Similarly, the modeled data allows histories or audits of business policy rules to be completed based upon information stored as the business policy rules. Thus, for example, a history defining a number of versions of a business policy rule as well as respective effective dates of the various versions of the business policy rule can be requested and fulfilled based upon the data stored as the business policy rules.","According to one aspect, a policy server executes a policy application that can support interactions for creating and managing business policy rules. The policy application can be configured to present one or more user interfaces for creating or modifying the business policy rules. Additionally, or alternatively, the functionality of the policy application can be accessed via one or more application programming interfaces associated with the policy server. The business policy rules can be generated by or via the policy application and stored at a data storage device associated or in communication with the policy server.","According to another aspect, an application hosted by an application host system is configured to call the policy application. The application calls the policy application via the application programming interfaces and\/or by submitting rule requests or other queries to a policy server hosting the policy application. The rule requests are interpretable by the policy application to identify one or more business policy rules associated with an action or transaction associated with the application. The identified business policy rules are provided to the application for enforcement. In some implementations, the application is configured to identify and resolve conflicts between the business policy rules provided to the application.","According to another aspect, an administration application can be accessed to create the business policy rules and\/or to perform audits of the business policy rules. The administration application can interact with the policy application and\/or a user interface provided by the policy application to create the business policy rules. The administration application also can request an audit of a business policy rule, a request that can be responded to by the policy application with a history of the business policy rule including one or more versions of the business policy rule, effective dates or termination dates of the one or more versions of the business policy rules, other information and the like.","It should be appreciated that the above-described subject matter may be implemented as a computer-controlled apparatus, a computer process, a computing system, or as an article of manufacture such as a computer-readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore, the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.","The following detailed description is directed to concepts and technologies for modeling and consuming business policy rules. According to the concepts and technologies described herein, a policy server executes a policy application. The policy application can be configured to support various interactions for creating and managing business policy rules via a user interface and\/or received commands relating to creation or modification of the business policy rules. The functionality of the policy application also can be accessed via application programming interfaces associated with the policy server and\/or submission of commands or requests via an administration application hosted by an administrator system. The business policy rules can be generated by the policy application itself or via the policy application as mentioned above. The generated business policy rules are stored at a data storage device associated with or in communication with the policy server.","One or more applications hosted by one or more application host systems can be configured to call the policy application. The applications can be configured to call the policy application via one or more application programming interfaces and\/or by submitting rule requests to the policy application. The rule requests are interpretable by the policy server to identify one or more business policy rules associated with an action or business process occurring or associated with the application. The identified business policy rules are provided to the application, and the application is configured to enforce the identified business policy rules against the actions taken in a business process. If the action in the business process does not comply with the business policy rule, completion of the action in the business process can be denied. Similarly, if the action in the business process complies with the business policy rule, completion of the action can be allowed. In some implementations, the application is configured to identify and resolve conflicts between business policy rules provided to the application according to various rules or settings.","The business policy rules can be created and\/or managed via an administration application. Additionally, the administration application is configured to request or perform audits of the business policy rules. The administration application can interact with the policy application and\/or a user interface provided by the policy application to create or modify the business policy rules, as well as to request audits of the business policy rules. If the administration application requests an audit of the business policy rules, the policy application can respond with a history of the business policy rule. The history can indicate one or more versions of the business policy rule, effective dates or termination dates of the one or more versions of the business policy rules, other information, and the like.","While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system, those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, components, data structures, and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including hand-held devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like.","In the following detailed description, references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings, in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures, aspects of a computing system, computer-readable storage medium, and computer-implemented methodology for modeling and consuming business policy rules will be presented.","Referring now to , aspects of one operating environment  for the various embodiments presented herein will be described. The operating environment  shown in  includes a policy server  operating on or in communication with a network . The policy server  is configured to execute an operating system (not illustrated) and one or more application programs such as, for example, a policy application  and\/or other application programs.","The operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the policy server . The policy application  is an executable programs configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide the functionality described herein for modeling and consuming business policy rules. According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein, the policy application  is configured to receive a rule request  from an application  executed by an application host system , to identify one or more business policy rules  relating to the rule request , and to return the identified business policy rules  to the application  in response to the request.","The policy application  also is configured to support interactions with an administrator or other authorized entities to support creation and management of the business policy rules . In the illustrated embodiment, an administrator or other authorized entity interacts with the policy application  via an administration application  executed by an administrator system . The administration application  is configured to generate commands  for interacting with the policy application . The policy application  is configured to receive the commands , and to create, read, update, or delete the business policy rules  in response thereto.","In some embodiments, the policy application  further is configured to provide one or more user interfaces (\u201cUIs\u201d) to an administrator or other authorized entity. The UIs can be presented at the administrator system  via a web browser, stand-alone application, or other application programs. Thus, it should be understood that some or all functionality associated with the administration application  can be provided by the policy application  executing on the policy server . Thus, the functionality of the administration application  can be accessed by the administrator or other authorized entity via various application programs. As such, the illustrated embodiment should be understood as being one illustrative example of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.","Additionally, the commands  can be interpreted by the policy application  as a request for a business policy rule audit or business policy rule history. In response to a request for a business policy rule audit or history, the policy application  is configured to generate a history  relating to one or more of the business policy rules , and to provide the history  to the administration application . The history  includes data indicating a current version of a business policy rule , as well as data indicating past versions of the business policy rule , effective dates of the various versions of the business policy rule , termination dates of the various versions of the business policy rule , and other historical information relating to the business policy rules .","The history  can be used by the administrator or other authorized entity to conduct an audit of the business policy rules  for various purposes. For example, an audit of a business policy rule  may be conducted in a situation in which an effective version of the business policy rule  on a particular date is in dispute or otherwise of interest. For example, an effective version of a business policy rule  on a particular date may be of interest in litigation relating to the business policy rules , employee reviews, internal process audits, and the like. The policy application  can generate the history  based, at least partially, upon effective dates associated with the various versions of the business policy rules , and the like.","The business policy rules  are illustrated as being stored at a data storage device associated with the policy server . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative. More particularly, according to various implementations, the policy server  includes or is in communication with one or more data storage devices configured to store the business policy rules  described herein. In some embodiments, the policy server  is coupled to or in communication with a policy datastore or other device. The functionality of a policy datastore can be provided by one or more and\/or a combination of data storage devices including, but not limited to, databases, server computers, desktop computers, mobile telephones, laptop computers, memory devices, other computing systems, and the like.","As mentioned above, the rule requests  can be received from an application  executing on an application host system . According to various embodiments, functionality of the application host system  is provided by a computing device operating on or in communication with the network  and\/or in communication with the policy server . In some implementations, the functionality of the application host system  is provided by a personal computer (\u201cPC\u201d) such as a desktop, tablet, or laptop computer system. The functionality of the application host system  also can be provided by other types of computing systems including, but not limited to, server computers, handheld computers, netbook computers, embedded computer systems, personal digital assistants, mobile telephones, smart phones, or other computing devices.","The application  hosted or executed by the application host system  can be configured to provide users, devices, and\/or other entities with any desired functionality associated with the application . For example, the application  can be executed to provide tools for procuring goods and services, customer resource management (\u201cCRM\u201d) services, enterprise resource planning (\u201cERP\u201d) services, other functionality, combinations thereof, and the like. As will be explained in more detail herein, the application  can be configured to generate the rule requests  in response to various operations, actions, and\/or business processes such as, for example, a purchase attempt. Thus, it should be understood that the application  can be tailored to call the policy application  via one or more application programming interfaces (\u201cAPIs\u201d) associated with the policy server  and\/or other interfacing mechanisms. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["102","104","112","118","100","102","104","112","118"]},"Turning now to , additional aspects of the business policy rules  will be described in detail. In particular,  is a Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagram that schematically illustrates an example of an extendable policy framework architecture  for the business policy rules , according to some embodiments provided herein. As shown, a policy  can be defined for an organization . The policy framework architecture  can be used to define an association between the policy  and the organization , such that a number of policies  can be defined for a number of organizations . This association can indicate a particular organization  to which a particular policy  applies. As explained above with reference to , this association is indicated in some embodiments by commands  received by the policy application , though this is not necessarily the case.","Each policy  can be defined as a collection of zero or more policy rules . In other words, a policy  defined for an organization  can include none, one, or more than one policy rules  relating to the organization , wherein each of the policy rules  corresponds to an implementation of a specific policy. For example, if an administrator or other authorized entity determines that a particular organization is to be limited to a specific dollar amount for purchases of a particular service, a policy rule  can be generated by the administrator or other authorized entity for implementing this policy. Thus, a policy rule  can be defined, wherein the organization , the dollar amount limitation, and the service to which the dollar amount limitation applies are specified. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.","The policy rules  also can be defined as having effective dates, times, and\/or time spans. Thus, a particular policy rule  may or may not apply at a particular time. Thus, in the above example of a dollar amount limit for a particular service or an organization, the policy rules  further can include information indicating when the dollar amount limitations do or do not apply. As such, various policy rules  can be defined for the same or a similar activity, wherein the various policy rules  can apply to the same or similar activity contemporaneously and\/or based upon different effective date information. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.","Additionally, it can be appreciated from  that the policies  can be further defined as relating to or controlling zero or more business processes . Thus, the policies  can be associated with particular business processes  such as a procurement or ordering process, a payment process, and the like. Administration of the policies  by zero or more administrators  also is shown in . As such, each policy  can be associated with zero or more administrators , and an administrator  can be associated with one or more of the policies . The identity of the administrator  can be determined based upon any desired criteria. For example, the administrator  can be determined based upon a job title, seniority, management position, and\/or other considerations.","It therefore can be appreciated from the example policy framework architecture  illustrated in  that the zero or more business policy rules  can be part of one policy  that is administered by one or more administrators . Each of the policies  can control one or more business processes  and can apply to zero or more organizations . Further, it can be appreciated that each of the policies  can include zero or more policy rules  that specify particular policies or rules for implementing specific rules or policies. As mentioned above, the business policy rules model is extendable by users, and as such, the illustrated policy framework architecture  is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. Furthermore, it should be understood that data defining all of the relationships illustrated in , as well as other data described herein as relating to business rules or policies, can be stored as the business policy rules  described herein.","Turning now to , aspects of a method  for modeling the business policy rules  will be described in detail. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order(s) is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added, omitted, and\/or performed simultaneously, without departing from the scope of the appended claims.","It also should be understood that the illustrated methods can be ended at any time and need not be performed in their respective entireties. Some or all operations of the methods disclosed herein, and\/or substantially equivalent operations, can be performed by execution of computer-readable instructions included on a computer-storage media, as defined herein. The term \u201ccomputer-readable instructions,\u201d and variants thereof, as used in the description and claims, is used expansively herein to include routines, applications, application modules, program modules, programs, components, data structures, algorithms, and the like. Computer-readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations, including single-processor or multiprocessor systems, minicomputers, mainframe computers, personal computers, hand-held computing devices, microprocessor-based, programmable consumer electronics, combinations thereof, and the like.","Thus, it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented (1) as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and\/or (2) as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly, the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states, operations, structural devices, acts, or modules. These operations, structural devices, acts, and modules may be implemented in software, in firmware, in special purpose digital logic, and any combination thereof.","For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure, the method  is described as being performed via interactions with the policy application . It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative, and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way. The method  begins at operation , wherein the policy application  receives a request to generate or modify a model of a business policy that includes business policy rules . From the description herein, it can be appreciated that the request received in operation  can include a command  received from the administrator system  or another entity. Additionally, or alternatively, the request received in operation  can correspond to selection of a UI control of a UI presented by the policy application .","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein organizations to which the business policy rule  apply are specified. In some embodiments, the policy application  receives organization data that indicates an organization to which a business policy rule  is to apply. A business policy rule  can apply to one or more organizations. Similarly, one or more levels, departments, or other entities associated with an organization can be subject to different business policy rules . As such, embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein support controlling different levels of an organization with specific business policy rules .","The organization data can be received, for example, via selection or entry of an organization or organization identifier via a command  received from an administrator system . The organization data also can be received via interactions with a UI presented by the policy application . For example, the policy application  can generate and\/or present a UI that includes a list of organizations from which the organization can be selected to specify the organization in operation . The UI additionally or alternatively can include a field for entering data identifying an organization. Thus, operation  can include receiving a selection of an organization to which a business policy including business policy rules  is to apply, receipt of an identifier, and\/or receipt of other organization data that indicates one or more organizations to which a business policy including business policy rules  is to apply.","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein business processes associated with the business policy including the business policy rules  are identified. In some embodiments, the policy application  receives data indicating the business processes via interactions with a UI presented by the policy application . As mentioned above, a \u201cbusiness process\u201d includes, but it not limited to, a particular process, activity, action, application, step, or other function or task associated with an application and\/or an organization. For example, as explained above, data identifying business processes associated with the business policy rule  can be received or generated via selection of UI controls or data entry into one or more fields for entering data identifying the business processes.","The data received in operation  can specify one or more business processes that are associated with the business policy including business policy rules . Thus, for example, a user or other entity may specify a purchase processes as being associated with a particular business policy having business policy rules . As such, if the policy application  is called by a device performing a purchase process, the policy application  can retrieve the business policies having business policy rules  identified as being associated with the purchase process. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein the policy rules are defined. In some embodiments, operation  includes defining policy rules associated with the organizations specified in operation  and\/or policy rules associated with the business processes identified in operation . According to various implementations, operation  includes receiving data that specifies specific controls, policies, and\/or other rules including, but not limited to, those described herein with respect to the policy rules  of .","Thus, operation  includes defining specific controls that are to be implemented by the policy application . For example, the controls, policies, and\/or rules can include dollar amount limitations that are to be enforced on particular types of purchases or other transactions, access control mechanisms that are to be implemented for particular business processes and\/or organizations, and\/or other controls, policies, and\/or rules. The data received in operation  therefore can include specific information that defines the policy rules in a manner that allows or enables enforcement of the policies, rules, and\/or controls by the application , as will be described in additional detail below with reference to .","The operation  also can include receiving or collecting data defining effective dates, termination dates, effective time spans, and\/or other time- or date-based information specifying when, from when, until when, and\/or for how long the policy rules are to be effective. As explained above with reference to , the effective date data and\/or termination date data can be used to determine if a policy rule is effective at a particular time. The effective date information also can be used to generate a history  associated with a business policy rule , for example, during an audit of a business policy rule . The information specifying effective dates, termination dates, and\/or other information can be collected or obtained at any point in time during modeling of the business policy rules . As such, the illustrated embodiment should be understood as being illustrative.","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein the policy application  generates the business policy rules . The policy application  is configured, in some embodiments, to generate the business policy rules  based, at least partially, upon the data received or collected in operations -. Thus, the policy application  can generate the business policy rules  based upon the identified organizations, business processes, policy rules, effective dates and\/or termination dates, and\/or other information obtained or received in operations -. The policy application  is configured to model the business policy rules  based upon these data and to store the data in a suitable data storage device such as a database, a memory device, and\/or other devices, if desired.","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation . The method  ends at operation . In some embodiments, the method  repeats indefinitely while the business policy rules  are modeled. Thus, while not illustrated in , it should be understood that the method  can proceed from operation  to operation . An illustrative user interface (\u201cUI\u201d) for modeling the business policy rules  is illustrated in .","Turning now to , aspects of a method  for consuming the business policy rules  are described in detail. For purposes of illustration, and not limitation, the method  is described as being performed by the application . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. The method  begins at operation , wherein the application  is executed. In some embodiments, the application  is executed by an application host system , though in some embodiments, the application  can be executed by more than one device. As such, the embodiment illustrated in  should be understood as being illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein the application  calls the policy application . Although not shown in , it should be appreciated that operation  can include generation and\/or submission of a rule request  or other request for one or more business policy rules . The application  can be configured to generate the rule requests  and to submit the rule requests  to the policy application .","More particularly, as explained herein, the application  can be authored or tailored to call the policy application . In some instances, the application  is tailored to call the policy application  during execution of functionality associated with a particular function, action, business process, instruction, and the like. For example, if the application  corresponds to a procurement application or system, the application  can be configured to call the policy application  if a particular type of transaction or action is attempted or completed. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. It also should be understood that a particular application  may be configured to call the policy application  multiple times during execution of a particular business process.","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein the application  receives the business policy rules  in response to the call described above with reference to operation . Although not shown in , it should be appreciated that the business policy rules  relevant to the call described herein can be identified and provided by the policy server  in response to the rule request  and\/or other request generated by or obtained from the application . As such, it should be understood that the rule request  can specify a business process or instruction being executed by the application , an organization associated with the application , and\/or other information that may be used by the policy server  to identify one or more relevant business policy rules . Furthermore, the rule request  can specify an effective date or a current time or date that may be used to further identify the business policy rules . In operation , the application  can receive zero, one, or more than one business policy rules , depending upon what data is stored as the business policy rules .","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein the application  determines if there is a conflict among the business policy rules  received in operation . In some instances, zero or only one business policy rule  is received in operation . For example, the policy application  may identify no business policy rules  or one business policy rule  as being relevant to the business process or instruction being performed by the application . As such, the application  can determine that no conflict exists among the received business policy rules .","In some instances, the application  can receive multiple business policy rules  in operation . As such, the application  may determine that multiple business policy rules  are relevant to the business process or instruction being performed by the application . In these and other instances, the application  may determine that a conflict among the business policy rules  exists.","If the application  determines, in operation , that a conflict exists, the method  proceeds to operation  wherein the application  resolves the conflict between the business policy rules . In particular, the application  can be configured with instructions defining how conflicts among the business policy rules  are to be resolved by the application . For example, the application  can be configured to resolve conflicts between business policy rules  by using the business policy rule  with the most recent effective date. In another example, the application  is configured to resolve conflicts between business policy rules  by using the business policy rule  configured by an administrator or other authorized entity with the most seniority or authority. In yet another example, the application  can be configured to resolve conflicts between business policy rules  by using the business policy rule  with the most restrictive policies under the assumption that a more restrictive policy will satisfy all versions of the business policy rules . Other methods for resolving conflicts are possible and are contemplated. As will be appreciated from the above description, operation  can include identifying a business policy rule  identified during the conflict resolution process.","If the application  determines in operation  that a conflict does not exist, and from operation , the method  proceeds to operation . In operation , the application  applies the business policy rule . As explained above, the business policy rule  applied in operation  can be a single business policy rule  received in operation  if no conflict existed, or a business policy rule  identified in operation  using the conflict resolution process described above.","From operation , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein the application  determines if the business process, instruction, or other action that prompted calling of the policy application  complies with the business policy rule . If the application  determines in operation  that the action does not comply with the business policy rule , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein the application  denies completion of the action. If the application  determines in operation  that the action complies with the business policy rule , the method  proceeds to operation , wherein the application  allows the action to be completed.","From operations  and , the method  proceeds to operation . The method  ends at operation .","Turning now to , additional aspects of modeling and consuming business policy rules  will be described in detail. In particular,  illustrates a screen display  generated by the administration application  for providing a user interface for modeling and viewing the business policy rules , according to an illustrative embodiment. As shown, the screen display  includes various menu options for accessing functionality provided by the administrative application . In the illustrated embodiment, a UI control  for displaying, creating, modifying, and deleting purchasing policy rules has been selected, thereby displaying a purchasing policy menu . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. In particular, it should be understood that the user interface illustrated in  can be used to create any type of business policy rules , and is not limited to creating and\/or managing purchasing policy rules.","The purchasing policy menu  includes a number of UI controls including a UI control  for creating a new purchasing policy or other collection of purchasing policy rules, a UI control  for modifying a purchasing policy or other collection of purchasing policy rules, a UI control  for deleting a purchasing policy or other collection of purchasing policy rules, a UI control  for setting up a purchasing policy or other collection of purchasing policy rules, other controls, combinations thereof, and the like. The screen display  also includes additional controls for accessing details associated with the purchasing policy. In the illustrated embodiment, the screen display  includes a UI control  for accessing a general properties tab for defining the purchasing policy or other policy in additional detail, a UI control  for accessing a policy organizations tab for defining policy organizations associated with the purchasing policy, a UI control  for accessing a policy rules tab for modeling, modifying, deleting, and\/or viewing policy rules associated with the purchasing policy, and a UI control  for accessing a policy administrators tab for specifying one or more parties who can function as administrators with respect to the purchasing policy. In the illustrated embodiment, the policy rules tab  is displayed in response to a user selecting the UI control . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.","The policy rules tab  presents a user interface for viewing, deleting, modifying, and creating (\u201cmodeling\u201d) the business policy rules , corresponding in the illustrated example to purchasing policy rules. The policy rules tab  includes a UI control  for selecting a type or category of business policy rules . In the illustrated example, the \u201ccatalog rule\u201d category has been selected by clicking on, hovering over, and\/or otherwise indicating selection of the text indicating \u201ccatalog rule (2),\u201d indicating that two rules are stored in that category, as indicated by the mouse pointer . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.","In response to selection of the catalog rule option, the policy rules tab  displays a catalog rules detail display for viewing, creating, updating, and\/or deleting the business policy rules  categorized as catalog rules. As shown in , the catalog rules detail displays two business policy rules  stored by the policy server  and information stored with respect to the business policy rules . In the illustrated example, the catalog rules detail displays a ruleID column , an effective data column  for displaying an effective date for the business policy rules , an expires column  for displaying the expiration date of the business policy rules , a continue search column  for specifying if a continue search option is enabled or disabled at the policy rule type level, and a catalog column  for specifying a catalog to which the business policy rules  relate. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.","As shown in the example illustrated in  and as explained herein, an administrator or other authorized entity can specify an effective date for each of the business policy rules , as well as an expiration date, if desired. As such, some of the business policy rules  can be enforced beginning on a specified date and\/or enforcement of the business policy rules  can be terminated on a specified date. The ruleID for the business policy rules  can be automatically assigned upon creation or generated by a user by interfacing with the administration application . Values for each of the business policy rules  displayed in the catalog rules detail can be edited in place by selecting a field, column, or row of the catalog rules detail, if desired. As such, a user can modify the business policy rules  via the user interface illustrated in , if desired. Thus, it can be appreciated that embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein support easy creation and management of the business policy rules , as well as date-effecting and modification of the business policy rules .","The user interface illustrated in  also includes a UI control  for creating a business policy rule  in the catalog rule category. In response to selection of the UI control , the administration application  can present rule creation window (not illustrated) or create a new rule in the displayed grid  for creating the new business policy rule . The user interface also includes a UI control  for deleting a selected business policy rule  and a UI control  for restricting or expanding the types of rules viewable in the grid . It should be understood that the illustrated embodiment is illustrative, and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","600","600"]},"The computer architecture  illustrated in  includes a central processing unit  (\u201cCPU\u201d), a system memory , including a random access memory  (\u201cRAM\u201d) and a read-only memory (\u201cROM\u201d) , and a system bus  that couples the memory  to the CPU . A basic input\/output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer architecture , such as during startup, is stored in the ROM . The computer architecture  further includes a mass storage device  for storing the operating system  and the application , the policy application , and\/or the business policy rules . Although not shown in , the mass storage device  also can be configured to store the administration application , if desired.","The mass storage device  is connected to the CPU  through a mass storage controller (not shown) connected to the bus . The mass storage device  and its associated computer-readable media provide non-volatile storage for the computer architecture . Although the description of computer-readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device, such as a hard disk or CD-ROM drive, it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer-readable media can be any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer architecture .","Communication media includes computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","By way of example, and not limitation, computer storage media may include volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. For example, computer media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other solid state memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (\u201cDVD\u201d), HD-DVD, BLU-RAY, or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer architecture . For purposes the claims, the phrase \u201ccomputer storage medium\u201d and variations thereof, does not include waves, signals, and\/or other transitory and\/or intangible communication media, per se.","According to various embodiments, the computer architecture  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the network . The computer architecture  may connect to the network  through a network interface unit  connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit  also may be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer architecture  also may include an input\/output controller  for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices, including a keyboard, mouse, or electronic stylus (not shown in ). Similarly, the input\/output controller  may provide output to a display screen, a printer, or other type of output device (also not shown in ).","It should be appreciated that the software components described herein may, when loaded into the CPU  and executed, transform the CPU  and the overall computer architecture  from a general-purpose computing system into a special-purpose computing system customized to facilitate the functionality presented herein. The CPU  may be constructed from any number of transistors or other discrete circuit elements, which may individually or collectively assume any number of states. More specifically, the CPU  may operate as a finite-state machine, in response to executable instructions contained within the software modules disclosed herein. These computer-executable instructions may transform the CPU  by specifying how the CPU  transitions between states, thereby transforming the transistors or other discrete hardware elements constituting the CPU .","Encoding the software modules presented herein also may transform the physical structure of the computer-readable media presented herein. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors, in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include, but are not limited to, the technology used to implement the computer-readable media, whether the computer-readable media is characterized as primary or secondary storage, and the like. For example, if the computer-readable media is implemented as semiconductor-based memory, the software disclosed herein may be encoded on the computer-readable media by transforming the physical state of the semiconductor memory. For example, the software may transform the state of transistors, capacitors, or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. The software also may transform the physical state of such components in order to store data thereupon.","As another example, the computer-readable media disclosed herein may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations, the software presented herein may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media, when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations also may include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media, to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description, with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.","In light of the above, it should be appreciated that many types of physical transformations take place in the computer architecture  in order to store and execute the software components presented herein. It also should be appreciated that the computer architecture  may include other types of computing devices, including hand-held computers, embedded computer systems, personal digital assistants, and other types of computing devices known to those skilled in the art. It is also contemplated that the computer architecture  may not include all of the components shown in , may include other components that are not explicitly shown in , or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .","Based on the foregoing, it should be appreciated that technologies for modeling and consuming business policy rules have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features, methodological and transformative acts, specific computing machinery, and computer readable media, it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features, acts, or media described herein. Rather, the specific features, acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described, and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention, which is set forth in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
