---
title: Wireless electric power transmission through wall
abstract: An apparatus for wirelessly transmitting electric currents walls. The walls may be bulkhead compartment walls of a fixed structure or a vehicle or the like. The apparatus includes a wireless electric power transmission arrangement that includes an electronic device on one side of a wall, which is powered by a power source on another side of the wall. The electronic device may be a sensor arrangement having one or more sensors, a battery charging device, a through-the-bulkhead repeater device or other electronic device requiring power.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594572&OS=08594572&RS=08594572
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08594572
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110616
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy, and, thus the claimed invention may be manufactured, used, licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.","This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11\/906,800, filing date 26 Jun. 2007, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,760,585, incorporated herein by reference, entitled \u201cThrough The Bulkhead Repeater\u201d by inventors Albert Ortiz, Donald Dalessandro, and Qing Dong.","The present invention relates generally to an arrangement for providing wireless electric power transmission, more particularly the invention is directed to the use of an arrangement for providing wireless electric power transmission through thick-walled bulkheads and compartments on vessels or structures having sectional compartments.","Vessels such as, ships, submarines, and space shuttles, typically include bulkhead structures that divide functional areas into sections, and also provide structural support for the vessel. These sections may be used as watertight or airtight compartments. Regarding water vessels, these compartments can contain water in instances where there is a leak or some sort of hull breach. The sections may also be used as fireproofed compartments for preventing the spread of smoke and fire. In order to provide these safety functions, the compartments typically comprise thick steel walls.","Reduced manning initiatives for these compartmentalized vessels require highly automated systems for operation. A wireless communication system, as outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 7,760,585 by the inventors of the present application, provides the capability of transmitting RF signals through a steel bulkhead of a water vessel utilizing multiple active or passive modal devices (piezoelectric, magnetic, acoustic, and ultrasonic transducers). The capability of directly transmitting an RF signal from one steel compartment to another, permits the reconfiguring of critical control system information for mission essential tasks. It is also desired to have wireless communications arrangements that accommodate for the thick compartment walls and properly transmit electrical power through bulkhead compartments, without physical penetration of the bulkhead. There are labor and material costs associated with the penetration of the bulkhead. Additionally, the bulkhead may be weakened structurally in the vicinity of a penetration if not reinforced.","Thus, the ability to provide power wirelessly in a direct manner for sensors and critical controls, for example, would be beneficial to the overall operations of the compartmentalized vessels. This would be particularly beneficial in situations in compartments in which wires and the like are undesired. Wireless transmission of power would also be beneficial to non-vehicular compartmentalized structures. For example, some manufacturing plants include compartmentalized structures having compartments that are substantially inaccessible in a manner similar to bulkhead compartments outlined above. Similarly, some containers may also be compartmentalized, having sections that benefit from wireless power transmission.","In one aspect, the invention is a through-the-wall wireless power transmission arrangement. The arrangement has at least one wall having a first side and a second side, with a first power transmission unit associated with the first side of the wall for transmitting electrical energy through the wall. In this aspect, the first power transmission unit includes a power source, a first power transducer, and a first power line electrically connecting the power source to the first power line. The first power transducer receives an electric current from the power source and converts the current into a first energy form and propagates said first energy form through the wall from the first side of the wall to the second side of the wall, using the wall as a conductor. The through-the-wall wireless power transmission arrangement further includes a second power transmission unit associated with the second side of the wall for receiving and propagating the energy form. The second power transmission unit includes a second power transducer, wherein the second power transducer receives said first energy form, and converts said first energy form back into an electric current. The second power transducer propagates the electric current. The through-the-wall wireless power transmission arrangement further includes a second power line attached to the second power transducer, the second power line receiving the electric current from the second power transducer. Also included is an electronic device attached to the second power line, wherein the second power line directs the electric current to the electronic device, thereby powering the electronic device.","In another aspect the invention is a structure having a plurality of compartments wherein the plurality of compartments have one or more powered compartments and one or more unpowered compartments. In this structure, each compartment is arranged adjacent to at least one other compartment, with each compartment comprising a plurality of walls with one or more of the plurality of walls separating adjacent compartments from each other. In this structure, at least one said wall has a first side in a powered compartment and a second side in an unpowered compartment, with a first power transmission unit associated with the first side of the wall for transmitting electrical energy through the wall. In this aspect, the first power transmission unit includes a power source, a first power transducer, and a first power line electrically connecting the power source to the first power line. The first power transducer receives an electric current from the power source and converts the current into a first energy form and then propagates the first energy form through the wall from the first side of the wall in the powered compartment to the second side of the wall in the unpowered compartment, using the wall as a conductor. In this structure a second power transmission unit is associated with the second side of the at least one said wall for receiving and propagating the energy form. The second power transmission unit includes a second power transducer, wherein the second power transducer receives said first energy form, and converts said first energy form back into an electric current, the second power transducer propagating the electric current. A second power line is attached to the second power transducer, the second power line receiving the electric current from the second power transducer. The structure further includes an electronic device within the unpowered compartment, the electronic device attached to the second power line, wherein the second power line directs the electric current to the electronic device, thereby powering the electronic device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","177","175","179","175","175","100"]},"As shown in , the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  is located on either side of the wall . The wall  may preferably be a conductor material such as steel, iron, aluminum, titanium, and combinations thereof, or the like, depending on the application. For example if the wall  is a bulkhead wall of a ship, the wall may be steel, iron, aluminum, or combinations thereof. If the wall  is a bulkhead wall of a submarine, it may be titanium or the like. The wall thickness may be any desired thickness depending on the application. For example, if the wall  is a bulkhead wall for a watertight application in a ship, the wall may be about 0.20 inches to about 1.0 inch thick.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["101","177","175","150","101","155","101"]},"The wireless power transmission arrangement  further includes a second power transducer  on the second side  of the wall .  also shows an electronic device , which is attached to the second power transducer  via a second power transmission line . The second power transducer  may be a signal processor that converts energy forms such as ultrasonic, magnetic, or acoustic energy into an electrical current. The electronic device  may then receive the converted electrical current via the second power transmission line . The electronic device  may be any type of electronic device that requires an electric current in order to operate. As outlined below, the electronic device  may be for example, a battery charger, a sensor arrangement having one or more sensors, or a through-the-bulkhead repeater arrangement. To optimize the efficiency of the arrangement , the first power transducer  and the second power transducer  are attached to respective sides of the walls  and  at substantially identical horizontal and vertical orientations. The transducers  and  may be attached to the wall  by means of adhesives, suction devices, magnetic devices, or other known non-invasive attaching means.","In operation, the power source  directs an electric current to the first power transducer , via the power transmission line . The electric current is received by the transducer  and is converted into an energy form that is propagated from the first side  of the wall  to the second side  of the wall . In one particular embodiment, the transducer  is an ultrasonic system that is structured to convert the electric current into an ultrasonic wave that is transmitted through the wall , with the wall acting as a conductor, conducting the ultrasonic wave from the first side  to the second side  of the wall . According to other embodiments, the first transducer  may be structured to convert the electric current into magnetic energy or acoustic energy","On the second side  of the wall , the second power transducer  receives the transmitted energy form and converts the energy form into an electric current. According to the ultrasonic system embodiment, ultrasonic energy is transmitted through the wall  and received by the second power transducer . According to this embodiment of an ultrasonic system, the transducer  is structured to convert the ultrasonic energy into an electric current. The ultrasonic system is designed for transmission through mild steel on the order of fractions of an inch, such as for example a wall  having a thickness of about 0.5 inches. According to this embodiment, an electric current carrying as much as about 5 volts DC, 250 milliamps, may be transmitted through to the second side of the wall . This current represents a transmission efficiency of at least 60%.","According to other embodiments, the transducer  may be structured to convert acoustic or magnetic energy into an electric current. After the transducer  converts the energy type into an electric current, the electric current is used to power the electronic device . According to other embodiment, the transducers  and  may be connected to an interface circuit, located in a modem, and the interface circuit may be ultrasonic, magnetic, or piezoelectric for example.","The electronic device  may be any desired electronic device. For example, the electronic device may be a battery charger or a sensor arrangement having one or more sensors.  is a schematic illustration of a wireless electric power transmission arrangement similar to that of the illustration of . In the  embodiment, the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  is provided to power one or more electronic devices. As shown, the power transmission arrangement  may power electronic device , which may be a battery charger, and\/or electronic device , which may be a sensor controller arrangement, having one or more sensors. As shown, the sensor controller arrangement includes a controller  for controlling and monitoring the operation of the one or more sensors . Depending on the application, the one or more sensors  may include water sensors, flooding sensors, humidity sensors, pressure sensors, temperature sensors, smoke sensors, explosive and poisonous gas sensors, carbon monoxide sensors, chlorine gas sensors, nitrogen sensors, and infrared sensors.","According to the embodiment of , the converted electric current may be used to power either electronic device  or electronic device , or the converted electric current may be provided simultaneously to both electronic devices  and , via one or more power transmission lines . The dotted lines indicate that each power line  may optionally be included, depending on the requirements of the system. It should be noted that throughout this written description, like elements carry the same alpha-numeric reference numbers. Thus for example, the transducers  of  are identical and provide similar functions. Additionally, apart from providing an electric current to one or more electronic devices, the power transmission arrangement  operates almost identically to the wireless power transmission arrangement .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 3"],"b":["300","305","102","300","100"]},"According to the embodiment of , the through-the-bulkhead repeater arrangement  is provided to transmit radio frequency signals, and information carried by the radio frequency signals, through the wall . The repeater arrangement  is located on either side of the wall . The arrangement  comprises a first bi-directional data transmission unit  and a second bi-directional data transmission unit . The first bi-directional unit  is positioned on the first side  of the wall , and includes a transceiver , and an antenna  associated with the transceiver . The antenna  may comprise one or more antennae elements for sending and receiving radio frequency signals. The first bi-directional data transmission unit  further includes a bi-directional converter  and a bi-directional transducer . The elements of the first bi-directional data transmission unit  may be hard-wired and packaged as a single device on an integrated circuit board or the like. The first bi-directional unit  may be secured to the first side of the wall  by using known adhesives and\/or attachment devices, such as screws, bolts, and the like.","As shown in , in the arrangement , the second bi-directional data transmission unit  is located on the second side  of the wall . The structure of the second bi-directional data transmission unit  is similar to that of the first bi-directional data transmission unit . The second bi-directional unit  includes a transceiver , and an antenna  associated with the transceiver , a bi-directional converter , and a bi-directional transducer . Similar to the first unit , the elements of the second bi-directional unit  may be hard-wired and packaged as a single device on an integrated circuit board or the like. The unit  is preferably mounted on the second side  of the bulkhead wall  horizontally and vertically aligned with unit , and may be attached to the wall by using known adhesives and\/or attachment devices, such as screws, bolts, and the like.","In operation, the transceiver  of the first bi-directional data transmission unit  receives an incoming radio frequency signal via the antenna . The transceiver  then sends the radio frequency signal to the bi-directional converter , which converts the radio frequency signal into an electronic signal. The electronic signal is preferably an acoustic signal such as an ultrasonic signal. The electronic signal may also be a magnetic signal such as an electromagnetic signal. The electronic signal is then fed to the bi-directional transducer , and is converted by the transducer into an energy form that is conducted through the bulkhead wall . In one particular embodiment, if the electronic signal is an acoustic signal, the transducer  converts this signal into an acoustic wave which it transmits through the bulkhead wall , the wall acting as a conductor, conducting the signal from the first side  to the second side .","According to the exemplary operation, the bi-directional transducer  senses the energy form that is propagated through the wall . It should be noted that this energy form is a second energy form that is different from the first energy form propagated by the wireless electric power transmission arrangement. The first energy form propagated by the wireless electric power transmission arrangement is related to the transmission of an electric current. The second energy form propagated by the through-the-bulkhead arrangement is related to data transmission. According to the embodiment of , transducer  then converts the energy form into an electronic signal and sends the electronic signal to the bi-directional converter . The bi-directional converter , which may be a signal processor that utilizes a controlled oscillator, converts the electronic signal into a radio frequency signal which is then fed to the transceiver . The transceiver  receives and transmits the signal via antenna . These features along with other features of the through-the-bulkhead arrangement are outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 7,760,585, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.","As described with respect to the arrangement  of , the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  transmits an electric current wirelessly, from the first side  of the wall  to the second side of the wall . The electric power, initially supplied by the source , is converted to an energy form by the first transducer , which is then propagated through the wall , where the energy form is received by the second transducer and converted back into an electric current. The electric current is then transmitted to one or more elements of the through-the-bulkhead repeater arrangement , thereby powering the arrangement .  shows a power transmission line  for transmitting power to the through-the-bulkhead repeater arrangement . The power transmission line is attached at one end to the second power transducer , and transmits a converted electrical current to the arrangement . As shown, the power line  may be attached directly to the bi-directional transducer . Alternatively, the power line  may be attached to other elements of the through-the-bulkhead arrangement , such as the bi-directional converter , for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","300","400","101","177","175","102","179","175","300","400","301","330","177","175","302","340","179","175","400","101","301","405","102","302","406","405","101","330","330","101","406","102","340","340","102"]},"To optimize the operation of the wireless electrical power transmission arrangement , the housings  and  are mounted on the respective sides of the wall  in matching horizontal and vertical orientations. More specifically, the concentric transducer structures (, ) and (, ) are positioned in matching opposing horizontal and vertical orientations. According to an embodiment of the concentric transducer structures (, ) and (, ) may be circular. Alternatively, the concentric transducer structures (, ) and (, ) may be oval, or other shapes.","As stated above, the operation of the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  of  is substantially identical to the operation of the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  of . Thus, the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  transmits an electric current wirelessly, from the first side  of the wall  to the second side of the wall . The electric power, initially supplied by the source , is converted to an energy form by the first transducer , which is then propagated through the wall , where the energy form is received by the second transducer  and converted back into an electric current. The electric current is then transmitted to one or more elements of the second bi-directional unit , thereby powering the unit . The arrangement  may include a power transmission line  within the housing , for transmitting the converted electrical current from the second power transducer  to the second bi-directional unit  of the through-the-bulkhead repeater.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["550","500","501","502","550","550"]},"According to an embodiment of the invention, compartments  are powered compartments and  are unpowered compartments. As illustrated, each wireless electric power transmission arrangement  extends from a powered compartment  to an unpowered compartment . The arrangement  allows for the transmission of power wirelessly from a powered compartment  through a bulkhead wall  to an unpowered compartment .","It should be noted that the electric power transmission arrangement  may be any of the wireless electric power transmission arrangements as disclosed in the written description and as illustrated in , , , and . Therefore, each of the wireless electric power transmission arrangements of  outlined above, may be organized within a structure  as illustrated. Thus, for example, the arrangement  may be representative of the arrangement  illustrated in , which has a first power transducer  associated with the first side  of the wall  in a powered compartment , and a second power transducer , associated with the second side  of the wall  in an unpowered compartment . According to this embodiment, the electric power transmission arrangement would also include a first bi-directional unit  having a bi-directional transducer  associated with the first side  of the wall  in a powered compartment , and a second bi-directional unit  having a bi-directional transducer , associated with the second side  of the wall  in an unpowered compartment. Additionally the respective elements would be packaged in housings  and , as outlined above.","Regarding the illustration of , according to another embodiment of the invention, the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  may include an electronic device  as illustrated in . The electronic device  includes a controller  and one or more sensors . In the compartmentalized structure of , sensors may include water sensors, flooding sensors, humidity sensors, pressure sensors, temperature sensors, smoke sensors, explosive and poisonous gas sensors, carbon monoxide sensors, chlorine gas sensors, nitrogen sensors, and infrared sensors. According to this embodiment electronic device  is powered wirelessly in order to provide critical data and control of the compartment conditions, particularly in situations where the compartments are difficult to access.","Alternatively, in the arrangement illustrated in , the wireless electric power transmission arrangements  shown may include a mixture of the different arrangements shown in . Thus, for example, the structure  may include both the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  shown in  and the wireless electric power transmission arrangement  shown in .","What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms, descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention, which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents, in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other features will be apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
