---
title: Linkage assembly
abstract: A device for recovery of physical objects includes a chain having two ends and a retriever attached to one of the ends. The retriever is configured to locate the object to be recovered and to grasp and retrieve that object once located. The retriever includes transducers that detect acoustic frequencies propagating in a fluid medium. Independent transponders, which can be deployed from the retriever; are provided for deployment in an area to be searched. Each transponder emits a predetermined acoustic frequency that is detectable by the transducers. The transducers signal movement of the recovery device for retrieval of the object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08402734&OS=08402734&RS=08402734
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08402734
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111115
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a divisional of pending prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/248,456 filed on 29 Sep. 2011 and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7121 of the prior application's filing date.","None.","The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","1) Field of the Invention","The present invention is directed to a device for recovering physical objects.","2) Description of Prior Art","Object retrieval presents two significant obstacles; the location of the object and physical access to the object. In order to gain physical access to objects in areas that are not easily accessible (for example, in the deep sea); mechanical and remotely-operated recovery devices are used. These mechanical recovery devices typically utilize a mechanically-operated gripping mechanism mounted on an arm or a boom so that the mechanism can be maneuvered into a position for grasping the object to be retrieved. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,015,873 is directed to a U-shaped retrieving device having spring-based fingers attached to a retrieval line.","Regarding the act of locating the object, certain objects (e.g., aircraft black boxes) emit signals that are used locate those objects. Other devices do not emit signals or their signals may not be functioning properly.","In either case, the actual location of an object is accomplished using a process of triangulation. For example, devices such as acoustic beacons have been used to triangulate the location of an object to be retrieved. Transponders are released in known locations and the location of the object is determined using acoustic signals received from the object by each of the transponders.","Mechanisms for locating an object are often separate from and independent of the mechanisms for retrieving those objects; thereby, requiring separate deployment and operation of each mechanism. These actions require coordination that complicates retrieval efforts. In addition, the environments in which the objects to be retrieved are located, present challenges to the operation of the retrieval device. For example, strong ocean currents inhibit accurate maneuvering of retrieval mechanisms by causing these devices to drift or twist. Therefore, recovery devices are desired that can both effectively locate and retrieve objects.","Exemplary embodiments of a system and method in accordance with the present invention provide a recovery device with integrated object locating mechanisms that can be deployed and operated in remote locations and in challenging conditions.","The recovery device comprises a cable having two ends, a retriever and a transponder. The retriever with at least two transducers is attached to one of the ends of the cable. Each transducer is configured to detect acoustic frequencies propagating in a fluid medium. The transponder, configured to emit an acoustic frequency, is independent of and separate from the cable and retriever.","In preferred embodiments, the acoustic frequency is selected to be detectable by the transducers and is distinguishable from acoustic signals emitted from devices or objects to be recovered by the recovery device. In one embodiment, the recovery device includes a plurality of independent and separate transponders. Each transponder is configured to emit a different predetermined acoustic frequency.","In another embodiment, the recovery device includes a plurality of transducers arranged in an array. In yet another embodiment, each transponder in the plurality of transponders is deployably attached to the retriever portion of the recovery device.","In still another embodiment, the recovery device includes a cable having two ends and a retriever. The retriever has a metal detector, a magnet and a grabbing mechanism. The grabbing mechanism has a plurality of independent fingers movably attached to the retriever.","In still another embodiment, the retriever also includes a plurality of magnets. Each magnet is attached to one of the fingers. In still another embodiment, the retriever includes a touch sensor configured to notify a user when the retriever contacts an object.","In yet another embodiment, the cable is a chain. The chain has a plurality of links arranged as a series of links. The chain also has a plurality of pins. Each pin has two ends defining a length of the pin. Each pin is attached to and extends between adjacent pairs of links in the chain and is configured to secure adjacent pairs of links together. The pins are attached to the adjacent links such that length of each pin extends parallel to the length of the chain.","In still another embodiment, each link in each adjacent pair of links has a surface. The surfaces of the adjacent pairs of links are in contact with each other with the pin extending through these surfaces.","In still another embodiment, each link is formed from a body that defines an open interior, and each surface is contained within the body (for example at an end of each link). Each link includes two surfaces at opposite ends of the link and is contained in two separate adjacent pairs of links. A pin is associated with each adjacent pair of links, extending through one of the surfaces of each link in the pair of adjacent links and extending into the interior of each link.","In still another embodiment, each pin includes a spherical head on each one of its two ends. Each spherical head is disposed in the interior of a given link in an associated adjacent pair of links in which that end of the pin is located. Each link includes a concave area disposed in the interior of the link and formed in the body in an area that is opposite each surface that is on the exterior of the body of the link. The spherical heads of the pins engage these concave areas of the body of each link. This arrangement provides a rotatable, ball-and-socket type engagement between the ends of the pins and the bodies of the links.","In a given adjacent pair of links, one of the links has a first surface that is in contact with the second surface associated with the other link in that adjacent pair of links. These surfaces slide with respect to each other and can rotate relative to each other around an axis defined by the pin passing through both surfaces. This action facilitates relative rotation around this same axis by both links in the adjacent pair of links.","In one embodiment, a rod or other protrusion extends from the first surface in the direction of the second surface and engages the second surface. The second surface contains a void (for example: shaped as a slit or partial circular groove centered on the pin passing through the second surface). The rod passes into and engages the void. The rod and the length of an arc defined by the void are configured so that the rod passes completely through the void; thereby, defining a predetermined degree of rotation between both links in the adjacent pair of links about the pin. This engagement of the rod in the void limits the relative rotational movement between the links in the adjacent pair of links around the axis of the pin.","In one embodiment, this relative rotation between links in a given adjacent pair of links is limited to approximately thirty degrees. Therefore, the void defines a thirty degree arc centered on the pin.","Exemplary embodiments of systems and methods in accordance with the present invention are directed to recovery devices that provide for both the location of objects to be recovered and the recovery of these objects. The recovery devices are rugged enough to be operated in a desired environment and can compensate for the operating conditions found in those environments. Suitable environments include underwater environments, surface water environments, mountains, swamps, thickly forested areas and ice and snow covered terrain.","The objects to be recovered include devices that emit homing signals or other signals or frequencies that can be detected and devices that are silent and do not emit any known or detectable signals.","Referring initially to , a recovery device  in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention is depicted. The recovery device  includes a cable  having two ends. Suitable cables include, but are not limited to, twisted or braided wire cables, mechanics cables and wire ropes.","In one embodiment, the cable  is a chain having a plurality of separate links  arranged in series to define a length of the cable or chain. Each link  can move or rotate relative to the other links in the chain, and each link, with the exception of the first and last links in the chain is adjacent two other links in the chain and is therefore contained in two separate pairs of adjacent links. Suitable materials for the cable are selected to be compatible with the environment in which the recovery device is deployed.","The recovery device  is controllably positioned on a platform  attached to a first end  of the cable . The platform includes a spool  mountable to the platform  with the first end  attached to the spool. The length of the cable  can be stored and deployed from the spool . The platform  can also include motors, boom arms, pulleys and guides to aid in the deployment of the cable .","The platform  can be a stationary platform or a mobile platform. Suitable mobile platforms include, but are not limited to; vehicles, trucks, helicopters, fixed-wing aircraft, surface vessels and underwater vessels. The platform  includes a power source and electronic control necessary to operate, monitor and control the recovery device .","The recovery device  also includes at least one retriever  attached to a second end  of the cable . The second end  is located opposite the first end  of the cable  along a length . The retriever  is configured to both locate objects to be retrieved and to grasp or secure those objects. The retriever  can be remotely monitored and manipulated.","The recovery device  includes a plurality of transducers  attached to the retriever . In one embodiment, the recovery device  includes at least two transducers . In another embodiment, the recovery device  includes three or more transducers . Each transducer  is configured to detect acoustic frequencies propagating in a fluid medium in which the recovery device  is deployed and the object  to be recovered is located. These acoustic frequencies can be emitted from the object  (e.g., a black box from an aircraft).","In one embodiment, these acoustic frequencies are also emitted from one or more acoustic transponders ,  that are attached to the retriever  or are otherwise deployed into the fluid medium in an area to be searched. The transducers  are configured to use both detection of acoustic signals from the object  and from the transponders ,  and triangulation to determine a location of the object relative to the retriever . In general, a sufficient number of transducers  are attached to the retriever  and are provided in a desired arrangement as necessary to locate the object .","Referring to , the retriever  includes a first section  configured to attach the retriever to the cable  and a second section  attached to the first section. In one embodiment, the cable  is a chain, and the first section  is attached to and formed integral with a last link  at the second end  of the chain. Suitable materials for the first section  include, but are not limited to, plastics and metals including stainless steel. In one embodiment, the first and second sections ,  are secured together using a plurality of fasteners . Suitable fasteners are known and available in the art and include stainless steel socket head screws.","Using threaded fasteners facilitates detachment and removal of the first section  from the second section . A gasket  is provided between the first section  and the second section . The gasket  is formed from any gasket material (e.g., elastomer or rubber) that is sufficient to seal the gap in the retriever  between the first and second sections ,  from the environment. Suitable gasket materials are known and available in the art.","In one embodiment, the retriever  is generally cylindrical with the first section  forming a lid or cover for the second section . The first section  includes a plurality of threaded holes  extending from a surface opposite the second section  into the body of the first section .","These holes  are arranged around the first section  to accept ballast weights that provide stability to the retriever  in a fluid medium. In one embodiment, a threaded ballast weight  is screwed into each hole. A sufficient number of ballast weights  are provided in the first section  to counter or to dampen drift and movement of the retriever caused by conditions in the ambient environment. In one embodiment, the first section  can include at least eight ballast weights .","In an embodiment where the first section  is cylindrical; the ballast weights  are spaced radially around the cylinder at equal intervals. In another embodiment, the ballast weights  are uniform in size or the size of the ballast weights can vary to compensate for the weight of the retriever  and to act as ballast to level and stabilize the retriever.","The second section  includes a generally cylindrical case . Contained within the case  and exposed to the environment are a temperature sensor  and a pressure sensor . The temperature sensor  can be any type of thermal sensor sufficient to measure the temperature of the environment. Similarly, the pressure sensor  can be any type of pressure sensor sufficient to measure the pressure of the environment. Suitable pressure and temperature sensors are known in the art and are commercially-available.","The retriever  includes a plurality of transducers  disposed in the case  and in communication with the environment. The transducers  are arranged in two separated groups or arrays spaced from each other along the case . These groups include a first array  and a second array . In one embodiment, the transducers  in each array of transducers are spaced equally around the outer circumference of the cylindrical case .","The case  also contains a grabbing mechanism initially disposed within the case. The grabbing mechanism has a plurality of fingers  sufficient to grasp the object to be recovered. The grabbing mechanism can include four fingers  arranged equidistantly around the circumference of the case  and is moveable with respect to each other to open and close in order to grasp objects.","In one embodiment, each finger  includes a semi-soft grabber support  on the end of each finger and at least one touch sensor  extending from the end of each finger. Preferably, a plurality of touch sensors  extend from the end of each finger. The grabber supports  provide a soft material to grip the objects to be recovered, and the touch sensors  provide feedback to indicate when the fingers  are in contact with or are gripping the object . The touch sensors  can also provide feedback regarding the amount of force used to grip the object . Therefore, damage to the object  can be prevented.","Each finger  can also include at least one magnet (not shown). The magnet can be located along the length of each finger  and is used to attract or hold magnetic material to be recovered. The magnet can be an electro-magnet that can be activated as desired. Alternately, the entire length of each finger  can be magnetized.","In one embodiment, the retriever  includes a plurality of motors disposed within the case and in communication with the fingers . The plurality of motors includes at least one vertical motor . The vertical motor  is in communication with a vertical shaft  disposed in the interior of the case  and running concentrically along the length of the cylindrical case. The vertical motor  is configured to rotate the vertical shaft . A central node  engages the vertical shaft . Rotation of the vertical shaft  by the vertical motor  moves the central node  along the longitudinal axis of the case , which is typically the vertical axis when the retriever  is deployed.","Also included in the retriever  is at least one horizontal shaft  attached to and extending from the central node . Preferably, the retriever  includes a plurality of horizontal shafts, one for each finger . Therefore, each horizontal shaft  extends from the central node,  to one of the fingers .","In one embodiment, each horizontal shaft  is attached to and engages one of a plurality of horizontal motors . Each horizontal motor  is configured to rotate one of the horizontal shafts . In another embodiment, each horizontal motor  is attached to the central node , and the horizontal shaft  extends from the horizontal motor. A retainer flange  is attached to the end of each shaft opposite the horizontal motor .","Each finger  is engaged with one of the horizontal shafts  between the horizontal motor  and the retainer flange . This engagement can be a threaded engagement. Rotation of the horizontal shaft  by the horizontal motor  moves the finger  along the length of the horizontal shaft . The retainer flange  prevents the finger  from being advanced completely off the horizontal shaft .","The vertical motor  and vertical shaft  advance the fingers  downward and out from the case . The horizontal motors  and shafts  move the now exposed fingers  away from each other at a sufficient distance to grasp the object . The horizontal motors  and horizontal shafts  are then used to move the fingers toward each other to grasp and recover the object.","As is illustrated in , the retriever  includes least one additional vertical transducer  attached to a plate  connected to an end of the vertical shaft . Preferably, the retriever  includes a plurality of vertical transducers  attached to the plate . The vertical transducers  are arranged in an array around the plate  and face vertically downward when the retriever  is deployed.","In one embodiment, the vertical transducers  are arranged in a circular array placed equidistantly apart and around the circumference of the circular plate .","In another embodiment, the retriever  also includes at least one touch sensor  attached to the plate . The touch sensor  faces vertically downward when the retriever  is deployed and provides an indication when the retriever contacts an object, the ground or the bottom of the ocean floor.","Returning to , the first section  of the retriever  is attached to the cable . The cable  is constructed of any material sufficient to hold the weight of the retriever  and the object to be recovered. The cable  is also configured to tolerate the operating conditions of the environment including any additional forces placed on the retriever  by the environment (for example, the force of ocean currents).","In yet another embodiment, the cable  is configured as a chain containing a plurality of independent chain links. As illustrated in , the links are arranged as adjacent pairs of links , and each link  in an adjacent pair of links is moveable with respect to the other link in the adjacent pair. This movement includes an amount of bending movement relative to axis  running along the length of the chain and rotational movement about this axis. Suitable shapes for each link  include circular shapes and rectangular shapes.","In one embodiment, each link  has an elongated shape formed by a body  that defines an open interior . Although the body  can completely encase the open interior to create a hollow elongated member; preferably, the open interior is exposed. Therefore, the fluid medium can pass through the open interior; thereby, reducing the effects of the forces of the fluid medium on the cable .","In another embodiment, data lines  or other electrical or electronic connections are disposed in and pass through the body of each link . These data lines  are in communication between the links  and each adjacent pair of links. In addition, the data lines  extend from the platform, through the cable to the retriever . This arrangement provides for system control, power supply and data collection.","The cable  includes a plurality of pins . Each pin  extends between the links  in a given adjacent pair of links and is configured to secure together the links in the given pair of links. Each pin  has two ends defining a length of the pin. The pins are attached to the adjacent links such that the length  of each pin extends parallel to the length of the chain. Preferably, the length of each link  runs along the axis  of the chain. In general, each pin  is cylindrical with a circular cross section and is fabricated from any material (such as titanium) sufficient to hold adjacent links together.","In one embodiment, each link  includes at least one and preferably a pair of surfaces  formed in the exterior surface of the body and located on opposite ends of each link. In another embodiment, the surfaces of each adjacent pair of links  are in contact with each other.","The pin  extends through these surfaces. In exemplary embodiments, the pin  extends through the midpoint or center of the surfaces of two adjacent links. The pin  extends through the surfaces and into the interior of each link . In one embodiment, each pin  has a spherical head  at each ends. As such, the spherical heads  are located in the interior of each link .","In one embodiment, one spherical head  is formed integral into the pin  and the other spherical head is removably attached to the pin. For example, the pin  is threaded on one end, and the spherical head  includes a complementary threaded hole. In another embodiment, the interior of each link includes a concave area  disposed on either end opposite the portion of the body containing the surface. Therefore, the pin  extends into the concave area  with the concave area is shaped to engage the spherical head  of the pin . This arrangement permits motion of the body of the link  with respect to the pin .","In one embodiment, adjacent pairs of links  include a mechanism between the links to limit rotational motion between the links around the axis of the pin . The two surfaces of the links  in a given adjacent pair of links include a first surface and a second surface. The first surface has a rod  extending from the first surface toward the second surface. This rod  engages the second surface. The second surface includes a void  extending into the second surface. The rod  is engaged in this void . In one embodiment, the height of the rod  does not exceed the depth of the void .","The rod  and void  are configured to limit rotation of each link about an axis of the pin running along the length of the pin. Referring to , the void  is shaped as and defines an arc, i.e., a portion of a circle, centered on the pin  passing through surfaces . The rod  is engaged in this void  and can move in the void along the arc. This void defines an angle of rotation  of the surfaces  with respect to each other around the axis of the pin . This angle of rotation is approximately thirty degrees. Therefore, the rotation of each link about the axis of the pin , which runs along the length of the pin, is limited to approximately thirty degrees.","Returning to , based on an initial estimate of the location of the object  to be retrieved; the retriever  is deployed into the fluid medium by extending the cable  from the platform . The object  can emit a known acoustic frequency. A user of the recovery device  monitors signals received by the transducers  on the retriever  including signals at the known acoustic frequency of the object to be recovered.","In one embodiment, a plurality of transponders  that are detachable from the retriever  or are otherwise deployable, are deployed in the vicinity of the retriever to provide the user with an acoustic, geographic and navigation reference. In another embodiment, the plurality of transponders  is independent of and separate from the retriever .","Each transponder  is configured to emit a predetermined acoustic frequency. The predetermined acoustic frequency emitted by the transponder  can be selected to be detectable by one or more of the transducers  and is distinguishable from acoustic signals emitted from the objects to be recovered. The transponders  can be stored in a separate transponder stowage  on the platform  and can be deployed separate from the retriever .","A send ping is emitted from each deployed transponder  to be incident upon the object . The time differentiation between the send ping and receipt of a response or reflection of the send ping for each one of the transponders  is measured. These measurements are compared for all deployed transponders  and are used to determine the type of object to be recovered and the location of that object  relative to the retriever .","In one embodiment, the signal emitted from the object  is received either by the array of transducers  located on the plate at the bottom of the retriever  that are arranged to look vertically one of the arrays ,  of transducers around the case  of the retriever  that are arranged to look horizontally. If the vertically looking array of transducers receives the object signal; then the object  is located below the retriever ; If the object  is not located below the retriever , one of the horizontal looking arrays of transducers will receive the target signal.","In one embodiment, if the object  is not located below the retriever , another transponder  is deployed at the present location of the retriever and the transponder location is recorded. The retriever  is maneuvered in a circle around this location while monitoring for the emitted acoustic frequency of the object . The diameter of the circle is increased until the acoustic signal from the object  is received at a strength sufficient to calculate a relative bearing from the deployed transponder  to the object.","In one embodiment, the platform  proceeds from the location of the transponder  to pursue an increasingly stronger acoustic frequency signal from the object . In the event of a failure or signal interference with the originally deployed transponder ; additional transponders are launched. Each additional transponder  emits a frequency different than that of the other transponders, and a new relative bearing to the object  is calculated and pursued. Additional transponders  are deployed as needed until the acoustic frequency signal of the object  is detected by the array of transducers on the retriever  that are arranged to look vertically and a signal-to-noise ratio of the object  exceeds that detected by the horizontal array of transducers.","When the signal-to-noise ratio of the object  detected by the array of vertically-looking transducers exceeds that detected by the horizontal looking arrays of transducers, the retriever  is above the object. Having moved the retriever  into a position vertically above the object to be recovered; a plurality of transponders  is dropped around the location of the object  to establish a perimeter of acoustic navigation references. The retriever  is now lowered and maneuvered to the object .","The retriever  is lowered until it is in contact with the object . A user is able to monitor data received by a touch sensor  on the bottom of the retriever  to indicate when the retriever has contacted the object. Once contact has been made, the fingers  of the grabbing mechanism are deployed. The fingers  are moved vertically by the vertical motor  and horizontally by the horizontal motors . The vertical motor  rotates the vertical shaft  with the result of advancing the central node  along that shaft. As the central node  moves, the horizontal shafts  also move and advance the fingers  from the case . The horizontal motors  are activated to spread the fingers  to a sufficient amount to grasp the object . Magnets in the fingers  can assist in the recovery of the object .","When the retriever  has secured the object ; the cable  is retracted onto the platform . The cable  is wrapped around the spool . When the retriever  is raised to the platform ; the object  is also raised to the platform. Once on the platform , the object  is accessed from the retriever .","In one embodiment, the data lines  that extend through the cable  are connected to signal processing software that allows the user to track acoustic frequencies from the deployed transponders  and to track acoustic signals from the object . Additionally, the user monitors tension exerted on the retriever  and the cable ; monitors the weight of the retriever and cable combined; analyzes the signal-to-noise ratio; monitors the proximity of an object to the retriever; and monitors when an object contacts the retriever.","It will be understood that many additional changes in details, materials, steps, and arrangements of parts which have been described herein and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims."],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention and many of the attendant advantages there to will be readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the companying drawings wherein like reference numerals and symbols designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["5","5"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
