---
title: Systems and methods for gravity compensation
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems and methods that may compensate for the effect of gravity on certain haptic devices, such as haptic-robot devices. An example embodiment of the disclosed systems and methods may take the form of a gravity-compensation system that includes (a) a carriage coupled to a rod having a first axis, wherein the carriage is configured to move along the first axis, (b) a displacement mechanism coupled to the carriage, wherein the displacement mechanism is configured to move the carriage along the first axis of the rod based on a displacement of an extendable arm along the first axis, and (c) a restorative-force mechanism configured to exert, on the carriage, a restorative force that acts along a second axis. The gravity-compensation system acts in a primarily passive manner, helping to ensure the safety of users at the point of human-robot interaction (pHRI).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08621954&OS=08621954&RS=08621954
owner: University of Washington Through Its Center for Commercialization
number: 08621954
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110606
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","I. INTRODUCTION","II. Exaple System ","III. Example Method","IV. Conclusion"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/351,397 filed Jun. 4, 2010, entitled Method of Gravity Compensation, which is incorporated herein in its entirety.","This invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number 0238204 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.","Haptic technology is a tactile-feedback technology that, in response to user inputs at a haptic device, applies forces to the user or otherwise controls the user's interaction with the device. The applied forces may be used, for example, to assist in the creation and control of virtual objects. General-purpose haptic devices are commonly used as an assistive technology to enhance a human's interaction within a virtual environment. Applications of haptic devices within virtual environments include, but are not limited to, video games, training surgical procedures, training sports techniques, or physical rehabilitation. Haptic devices commonly take the form of a robot, in which case the point at which a human interacts with such haptic devices may be referred to as the point of physical human-robot interaction (pHRI).","In designing haptic devices, the safety of the human user must be considered, especially at the point of pHRI. To minimize safety concerns, haptic devices today are commonly limited in size. Additionally, haptic devices today commonly utilize software-based safety mechanisms to control large inertia and energetic mechanical components.","As the field of haptic devices continues to evolve, the size of pHRI environments continue to grow. Large pHRI environments may include, as one example, physical rehabilitation environments that are commonly used by users who are weak, disabled, or have a hard time coordinating their limbs. Large pHRI environments may also include, as another example, video-game environments that are commonly used by users that are highly physical and strong, and that therefore may push the limits of haptic devices. Other examples of large pHRI environments may exist as well, with more examples coming into existence every day as haptic technology is increasingly incorporated into various applications.","However, as the size of pHRI environments continue to grow, so too does the size of haptic-device components at the point of pHRI. Such components are increasingly larger and\/or are capable of moving with greater forces at the point of pHRI. Accordingly, it has become increasingly difficult to ensure the safety of such pHRI environments at least because such pHRI environments involve components that are capable of moving with relatively high energy and intertia. Such high-energy and high-intertia components may exhibit undesirable forces at the point of pHRI which may at best degrade the user's experience, and may at worst present safety concerns","In particular, it has become increasingly difficult to control large pHRI environments having energetic or high-inertial components with software-based safety mechanisms alone. This is at least because software-based safety mechanisms generally involve active control of components at the point of pHRI. Such active control commonly involves use of electro-mechanical components that, if controlled incorrectly, may pose safety concerns of their own at the point of pHRI. Therefore, there is increasing interest in the development of more effective systems and methods for removing undesirable forces at the point of pHRI, and thereby improving safety and user-experience.","In a haptic device, one example of an undesirable force that may act at the point of physical human-robot interaction (pHRI) is a force due to gravity on mechanical elements of the haptic device. Indeed, as large mechanical elements of a haptic device move, the force due to gravity on such mechanical elements may vary. Such a variation in the force due to gravity may result in uncontrollable, or otherwise unsafe, movement of the mechanical elements at the point of pHRI. Thus, the safety of haptic devices may be improved by systems and methods that compensate for such undesirable effects of gravity (i.e., systems and methods for gravity compensation).","Common systems and methods for gravity compensation involve active components that counteract gravity. For example, such systems and methods may include electro-mechanical components that are driven by software to act opposite gravity. However, such active components themselves present safety concerns, as there is always the chance that such components may be driven in an unpredictable, unstable, or otherwise generally unsafe manner. In other words, with active elements, there is a risk that the user may be exposed to an unstable (and potentially large and\/or dangerous) element at the point of pHRI. For at least this reason, systems and methods for gravity compensation that involve passive elements that counteract gravity may be more desirable.","Disclosed herein are systems and methods for gravity compensation involving primarily passive components, such as dissipative components that dissipate or redirect forces due to gravity. These passive components may provide for gravity compensation without requiring electro-mechanical components that are driven by software to act opposite forces due to gravity. Although the systems and methods for gravity compensation disclosed herein are discussed as capable of being implemented within haptic devices, it should be understood that this is not necessary. Aspects of the systems and methods for gravity compensation disclosed herein may be applied in a variety of other devices and\/or contexts.","In an implementation, the disclosed gravity-compensation systems and methods may be applied to counteract the force due to gravity in a haptic device having a prismatic joint with an extendable arm. In such a haptic device, the extendable arm may be capable of moving in and out of a housing of the prismatic joint, and the prismatic joint itself may also be capable of rotating both horizontally and vertically. As a result, the force due to gravity on the prismatic joint of the haptic device may vary. To counteract such a varying force due to gravity, a disclosed gravity-compensation system may be coupled to the prismatic joint such that it may apply a dissipative, resistive, force that acts opposite the force due to gravity.","For instance, the disclosed gravity-compensation system may include a carriage and rod configuration that is attached to a housing of the prismatic joint, and the resistive force that acts opposite the force due to gravity may be applied to the carriage. The carriage may be moved along the rod, proportional to a displacement of the extendable arm, thus changing the point at which the resistive force acts on the prismatic joint. In this way, the amount of resistive force applied by the gravity-compensation mechanism is continuously adjusted to account for a changing center of gravity of, and thus changing force due to gravity on, the prismatic joint as the extendable arm is moved.","A first embodiment of the disclosed systems and methods may take the form of a gravity-compensation system that includes (a) a carriage coupled to a rod having a first axis, wherein the carriage is configured to move along the first axis, (b) a displacement mechanism coupled to the carriage, wherein the displacement mechanism is configured to move the carriage along the first axis of the rod based on a displacement of an extendable arm along the first axis, and (c) a restorative-force mechanism configured to exert, on the carriage, a restorative force that acts along a second axis.","In an aspect of the first embodiment, the restorative-force mechanism may include (i) a cable having a first end that is coupled to the carriage and a second end that is coupled to a gearing mechanism and (ii) a resistive-force mechanism coupled to the gearing mechanism. The gearing mechanism may include (i) a first gear, where the second end of the cable is coupled to the first gear and (ii) a second gear coupled to the first gear and the resistive-force mechanism.","In another aspect of the first embodiment, the resistive-force mechanism may include at least one of a spring mechanism and a pneumatic mechanism. The spring mechanism may include at least one of a constant-force spring and a torsion spring.","A second embodiment of the disclosed systems and methods may take the form of a method that includes (a) moving a carriage along a first axis of a rod based on a displacement of an extendable arm along the first axis and (b) exerting, on the carriage, a restorative force that acts along a second axis. Such a method may be carried out by the gravity-compensation system described above.","These as well as other aspects and advantages will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description, with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings.","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying figures, which form a part thereof. In the figures, similar symbols typically identify similar components, unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description, figures, and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized, and other changes may be made, without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure, as generally described herein, and illustrated in the figures, can be arranged, substituted, combined, separated, and designed in a wide variety of different configurations, all of which are contemplated herein.","Described herein are aspects of systems and methods for gravity compensation that may be applied in a variety of devices and\/or contexts, including in certain haptic devices. An embodiment of the present gravity-compensation system accounts for changes in force due to gravity in a primarily passive manner. Further, in an embodiment, the gravity-compensation system may be implemented using low-inertia components that may account for even relatively large changes in force due to gravity in a stable manner. As a result, the gravity-compensation system described herein may be employed to improve the safety and stability of even large haptic devices at the point of physical human-robot interaction (pHRI).","In an implementation, the disclosed gravity-compensation system may be employed in a haptic device having a prismatic joint that includes a housing and an extendable arm. In such a haptic device, as the arm is extended in one direction or the other, the torque on the arm due to gravity may change as a result of, at least, a corresponding change in the center of gravity and moment arm of the prismatic joint. The torque may be an undesirable force that acts on the haptic device at the pHRI and the disclosed gravity-compensation system may counteract such an undesirable force.","For purposes of context and explanation only, an example haptic device that incorporates the disclosed gravity-compensation system is discussed briefly below. However, it should be understood that the disclosed gravity-compensation system described herein may be utilized in other systems and\/or contexts, including other haptic devices. Thus, the example haptic device discussed below should be understood to be but one example of a haptic device in which the disclosed gravity-compensation system may be utilized, and therefore should not be taken to be limiting.","a. Example Haptic Device",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","101","101","103","105","103","107"]},"Gravity-compensation system  may also be coupled to a prismatic joint . Prismatic joint  may be coupled to the top of gravity-compensation system  such that turret , by way of gravity-compensation system , provides a stage for rotation of prismatic joint . For example, gravity-compensation system  may be rigidly attached to a top surface of turret . Further, prismatic joint  may be attached to gravity-compensation system  by way of a joint that is oriented with the x-z plane such that prismatic joint  may also be rotatable through the x-y plane.","Prismatic joint  includes an extendable arm  which is generally extendable through an interior of a housing  of prismatic joint . Extendable arm  may be generally configured such that a handle , coupled to extendable arm , is movable towards, and away from, housing . In other words, extendable arm  may be moved to and from housing , as indicated by motion arrows . Note that extendable arm  is shown as a telescoping arm that may be collapsed inside of housing . Although extendable arm  is shown as telescoping, a telescoping arrangement of extendable arm  is not necessary. As one alternative example, extendable arm  may be a non-telescoping arm that is movable into one end of housing  and out of another end of housing .","As noted, haptic device  also includes a handle  coupled to extendable arm . Generally, handle  provides a point of human-robot interaction (pHRI) at which a user may manipulate haptic device , such as by pushing and pulling extendable arm  (as shown by motion arrows ), rotating extendable arm  in a generally horizontal manner throughout the x-z plane (as shown by motion arrows ), and\/or rotating extendable arm  in a generally vertical manner throughout the x-y plane (as shown by motion arrows ).","Whether extendable arm  is a telescoping element or a non-telescoping element, those of skill in the art will appreciate that as extendable arm  is extended in and out of housing , the center of gravity and\/or the moment arm of prismatic joint  may vary. As a result, the force of gravity acting on extendable arm  (manifested as a torque on extendable arm ), including the force experienced at handle , or the point of pHRI, may vary. In certain applications, such as those applications involving a large pHRI environment as described above, this varying force at the point of pHRI with haptic device  may be undesirable. As one example, in a video-game application, it may be desirable to provide a gravity-neutral interface to improve realism. As another example, in a rehabilitation application, it may be desirable to provide a gravity-neutral interface to ensure the safety of a relatively weak user. Accordingly, as described below, gravity-compensation  may be implemented so as to minimize, or remove, forces due to gravity at the point of pHRI.","b. Example Gravity-Compensation System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["201","101","100","201"]},"As shown, gravity-compensation system  may include a carriage  and a rod . Further, Gravity-compensation system  may include a displacement mechanism  that is coupled to an extendable arm  of a device in which gravity-compensation system  is implemented. Further still, gravity-compensation system  may include a restorative-force mechanism , which may include a gearing mechanism  and a resistive-force mechanism .","Carriage  may be generally configured to be movable along a first axis  of rod . In an example, rod  may be a single-start lead screw. Rod  may take other forms as well.","Displacement mechanism  may be coupled to carriage  via interconnect . Interconnect  may be any suitable interconnect including any mechanical, electrical, wired, or wireless interconnect. In turn, displacement mechanism  is also coupled to extendable arm , via interconnect . Like interconnect , interconnect  may be any suitable interconnect including any mechanical, electrical, wired, or wireless interconnect. Extendable arm  may be movable along first axis  and displacement mechanism  may be generally configured to move the carriage along first axis  of rod  based on a displacement of extendable arm  along first axis .","Displacement mechanism  may take any form that provides for movement of carriage  along rod  based on a displacement of extendable arm . In an embodiment, displacement mechanism  may include mechanical components that are attached to each of extendable arm  and carriage , and thereby configured to move carriage  along rod . In another embodiment, displacement mechanism  may include a direct current (DC) motor that is directly and\/or indirectly coupled to each of extendable arm  and carriage , and thereby configured to move carriage  along rod . In any case, displacement mechanism  may be configured to move carriage  along rod  proportional to a displacement of extendable arm .","Carriage  may also be coupled to a restorative-force mechanism  via an interconnect, which may be a tensioned cable . Restorative-force mechanism  may be generally configured to exert, on carriage , a restorative force that acts along a second axis  via cable . Such a restorative force may serve to counter-balance a varying center of gravity of prismatic joint  as extendable arm  is displaced relative to prismatic joint housing . Restorative-force mechanism  may include a gearing mechanism  coupled to a resistive-force mechanism  via an interconnect such as a gearing belt  or other interconnect. As will be discussed further below, in an example, resistive-force mechanism  may include one or more of a spring mechanism and a pneumatic mechanism. Resistive-force mechanism  may include other mechanisms as well.","Gravity-compensation system  will now be discussed in further detail with reference to , which depict examples of gravity-compensation system  from different views. In , like numbers depict like components (unless context dictates otherwise). It should be understood that the examples shown in  are representative only of examples of gravity-compensation system , and therefore should not be taken to be limiting. Other components, elements, and devices, including other arrangements thereof, may be used without departing from the spirit or scope of the description contained herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 7"],"b":["300","201","300","201","202","204","202","206","204","204","208","224","202","216","202","202","216","202","212","202","204","208","700"]},"As shown in view , restorative-force mechanism  may include a pulley mechanism . Pulley mechanism  may include one or more pulleys, such as pulleys A and B. As shown, pulley mechanism  may be positioned between carriage  and gearing mechanism  of restorative-force mechanism  in such a way so as to direct the restorative force provided by restorative-force mechanism  along axis .","As further shown in view , gearing mechanism  may be coupled to resistive-force mechanism  via gearing belt . It should be understood, however, that gearing belt  may not be necessary, and gearing mechanism  and resistive-force mechanism  may be coupled in various other direct and\/or indirect ways.","Resistive-force mechanism  may include a gearing mechanism A to which gearing mechanism  is coupled. In turn, gearing mechanism A may be coupled to a constant-force spring B and\/or a torsional spring C. Each of constant-force spring B and\/or torsional spring C may be arranged to counteract any torsional force applied to gearing mechanism A, which force may be exerted by cable  on gearing mechanism  as a result of movement of carriage  along rod . An additional view of restorative-force mechanism , including resistive-force mechanism , is shown in view  of .","Although resistive-force mechanism  is shown as including gearing mechanism A, constant-force spring B, and torsional spring C, such an arrangement is not necessary. As a general matter, any combination of elements and\/or devices that is arranged to counteract a torsional force applied to gearing element  may be used. Such other elements and\/or devices may include, in addition to spring mechanisms and without limitation, a pneumatic mechanism. Any resistive-force element that provides a sufficiently linear resistive-force response may be used as, or included as part of, resistive-force mechanism .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","201","400","202","204","208","109","202","204","208","111","109","208","113","202","204","202","109","212","216","109","113"]},"As shown in view , a constant-force spring  may be coupled at a first end to restorative-force mechanism  and coupled at a second end to prismatic joint . Constant-force spring  is not required, however it may have particular application where extendable arm  takes the form of a telescoping extendable arm. This is because, in the event that the telescoping extendable arm is fully extended, the center of gravity of prismatic joint  may vary greatly from the center of gravity of prismatic joint  when the telescoping extendable arm is not extended. In this way, constant-force spring  may provide an independent dissipative force to counteract the torque on extendable arm  due to gravity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","201","500","206","202","204","500","202","214","206","109","214","113","208","202","113"]},"As may be seen with reference to view , the geometry of gravity-compensation system  is chosen so that a linear spring (such as torsional spring C) can be used to exactly counter the weight of rotation of prismatic joint  in the x-y plane. The basic geometry is defined by a triangle composed of lengths \u201cA,\u201d \u201cB,\u201d and \u201cC.\u201d Length C changes with rotation of prismatic joint  in the x-y plane for a given A, because length C is coupled with restorative-force mechanism , and it will stretch the springs in resistive-force mechanism  to produce a force in cable  acting on carriage . As the force on carriage  is increased (from increasing C), the moment arm of prismatic joint  decreases, maintaining a constant torque on prismatic joint .","Thus, if carriage  is driven a distance A along rod  proportional to the displacement of extendable arm  by a constant \u201cc,\u201d then the necessary torsional spring constant to compensate for gravity may be defined as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mi":"mgc","mrow":{"mi":"B","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":"\u0394","mn":"2"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["113","212","216"],"figref":"FIG. 5"},"Using trigonometry, the gravity-compensation torque required to achieve static balance of haptic device  can be determined according to the following equations:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"A","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","L"],"mo":"-"}},"mi":"c"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":"=","msqrt":{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":"A","mn":"2"},{"mi":"B","mn":"2"}],"mo":["+","-"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"AB","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c6"}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"3"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"L","mn":"0"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["R","C"]},{"mi":["F","C"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mi":["K","\u0394"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"4"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["T","R","F","+K","C\u2212L"],"sub":["C","C","C","0"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c4","mrow":{"mi":["gc","\u03c6"],"mo":"\u00b7"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["T","C"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["BA","cos","\u03c6"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]},"mi":"c"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"6"}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["113","111","115","109","111","109","216","202","214","222","222"],"figref":"FIG. 5","sub":["C ","C ","C "]},"As a general matter, the magnitude of Fmay be selected so as to create a zero initial spring length for torsional spring C. In this way, gravity-compensation system  may be preloaded and the required torsion spring deflection of torsion spring C may be decreased.","Note, also, that it may be generally desirable for restorative-force mechanism  be placed substantially directly below carriage  and\/or the axis of rotation of housing  of prismatic joint . In this way, upon moving carriage  along rod , the force applied along axis  by cable  may act on prismatic joint  on the opposite side of the axis of rotation from that which the force of gravity acts. It may be possible to orient pulleys A and B so as to achieve this desired result.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","201"]},"Method  begins at step , where gravity-compensation system  moves carriage  along first axis  of rod  based on a displacement of extendable arm  along first axis . According to step , rod  may be a single-start lead screw. Additionally, carriage  may be moved along rod  by displacement mechanism , which may be a direct current (DC) motor.","At step , gravity-compensation mechanism  exerts, on carriage , restorative force Tthat acts along second axis . Restorative-force mechanism  may exert restorative force T, and restorative-force mechanism may include cable  that has a first end coupled to carriage  and a second end that is coupled to gearing mechanism . Further, restorative-force mechanism  may include resistive-force mechanism  coupled to gearing mechanism . Resistive-force mechanism  may include at least one of a spring mechanism and a pneumatic mechanism. In the case that resistive-force mechanism  includes a spring mechanism, the spring mechanism may include at least one of constant-force spring B and torsion spring C.","It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it is understood that the following claims including all equivalents are intended to define the scope of the invention. The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore, all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
