---
title: Systems and methods for stimulating tissue using focused energy
abstract: The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for stimulating tissue using focused energy. In certain embodiments, the invention provides a system for stimulating tissue that includes a first energy source, a second energy source, and a focusing element that focuses at least the first or second energy source so that the first and second energy sources target the same region of tissue such that the combined effect stimulates the tissue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892200&OS=08892200&RS=08892200
owner: Highland Instruments, Inc.
number: 08892200
owner_city: Somerville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110627
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE","EQUIVALENTS"],"p":["The present application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 12\/536,914, filed Aug. 6, 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8,718,758, which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61\/086,989, filed Aug. 7, 2008, and is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 11\/764,468, filed Jun. 18, 2007, which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60\/814,843, filed Jun. 19, 2006, the content of each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for stimulating tissue using focused energy.","Stimulation of tissue in humans and other animals is used in a number of clinical applications as well as in clinical and general biological research. In particular, stimulation of neural tissue has been used in the treatment of various diseases including Parkinson's disease, depression, and intractable pain. The stimulation may be applied invasively, e.g., by performing surgery to remove a portion of the skull and implanting electrodes in a specific location within brain tissue, or non-invasively, e.g., transcranial direct current stimulation and transcranial magnetic stimulation.","A problem with non-invasive tissue stimulation is an inability to effectively target (localize) the stimulation to the desired region of tissue, leading to application of energy to a large area of tissue. The lack of targeting makes it difficult to effectively dose the stimulation and characterize safety parameters.","The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for stimulating tissue using focused energy. Systems and methods of the invention use a focusing element to focus energy that is applied to the tissue. In this manner, the stimulation can be effectively targeted (localized) to the desired region of tissue, which aids in dosing of the stimulation, in characterizing the safety parameters, and in maximizing the therapeutic effect of stimulation.","In certain aspects, the invention provides systems for stimulating tissue that include a first energy source, a second energy source, and a focusing element that focuses at least the first or second energy source so that the first and second energy sources target the same region of tissue, such that the combined effect stimulates the tissue.","Any energy sources known in the art may be used with systems of the invention. In certain embodiments, the first energy source is an electric source that produces an electric field. The electric filed may be pulsed, time varying, pulsed a plurality of time with each pulse being for a different length of time, or time invariant. In certain embodiments, the second energy source is a source that produces a mechanical field, such as an ultrasound device. The mechanical filed may be pulsed, time varying, or pulsed a plurality of time with each pulse being for a different length of time. In certain embodiments, the electric field and\/or the mechanical field is focused. In certain embodiments, the electric field is focused. In other embodiments, the mechanical field is focused. In still other embodiments, both the electrical and mechanical field are focused.","The first and second energy sources may be applied to any tissue. In certain embodiments, the first and second energy sources are applied to a structure or multiple structures within the brain or the nervous system such as the dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex, any component of the basal ganglia, nucleus accumbens, gastric nuclei, brainstem, thalamus, inferior colliculus, superior colliculus, periaqueductal gray, primary motor cortex, supplementary motor cortex, occipital lobe, Brodmann areas 1-48, primary sensory cortex, primary visual cortex, primary auditory cortex, amygdala, hippocampus, cochlea, cranial nerves, cerebellum, frontal lobe, occipital lobe, temporal lobe, parietal lobe, sub-cortical structures, and spinal cord. In particular embodiments, the tissue is neural tissue, and the affect of the stimulation alters neural function past the duration of stimulation.","Another aspect of the invention provides a method for stimulating tissue that involves providing a first type of energy to a region of tissue, providing a second type of energy to the region of tissue, and focusing at least the first or second type of energy so that the first and second types of energy target the same region of tissue, such that the combined effect stimulates the tissue.","It is envisioned that the present disclosure may be used to stimulate biological tissue in-vivo comprising an electric source that is placed on the body to generate an electric field and a means for altering the permittivity of tissue relative to the electric field, whereby the alteration of the tissue permittivity relative to the electric field generates a displacement current in the tissue. The exemplary embodiments of the apparatuses and methods disclosed can be employed in the area of neural stimulation, where amplified, focused, direction altered, and\/or attenuated currents could be used to alter neural activity via directly stimulating neurons, depolarizing neurons, hyperpolarizing neurons, modifying neural membrane potentials, altering the level of neural cell excitability, and\/or altering the likelihood of a neural cell firing. Likewise, the method for stimulating biological tissue may also be employed in the area of muscular stimulation, including cardiac stimulation, where amplified, focused, direction altered, and\/or attenuated currents could be used to alter muscular activity via direct stimulation, depolarizing muscle cells, hyperpolarizing muscle cells, modifying membrane potentials, altering the level of muscle cell excitability, and\/or altering the likelihood of cell firing. Similarly, it is envisioned that the present disclosure may be employed in the area of cellular metabolism, physical therapy, drug delivery, and gene therapy.","Detailed embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed herein, however, it is to be understood that the described embodiments are merely exemplary of the disclosure, which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore, specific functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting, but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present disclosure in virtually any appropriately detailed embodiment.","The components of the tissue stimulation method according to the present disclosure are fabricated from materials suitable for a variety medical applications, such as, for example, polymerics, gels, films, and\/or metals, depending on the particular application and\/or preference. Semi-rigid and rigid polymerics are contemplated for fabrication, as well as resilient materials, such as molded medical grade polyurethane, as well as flexible or malleable materials. The motors, gearing, electronics, power components, electrodes, and transducers of the method may be fabricated from those suitable for a variety of medical applications. The method according to the present disclosure may also include circuit boards, circuitry, processor components, etc. for computerized control. One skilled in the art, however, will realize that other materials and fabrication methods suitable for assembly and manufacture, in accordance with the present disclosure, also would be appropriate.","The following discussion includes a description of the components and exemplary methods for generating currents in biological tissues in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. Alternate embodiments are also disclosed. Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure illustrated in the accompanying figures wherein like reference numerals indicate the similar parts throughout the figures.","Turning now to , which illustrates an exemplary embodiment of an apparatus  to alter currents, e.g., amplify, focus, alter direction, and\/or attenuate in the presence of an applied electric field or applied current source by the combined application of a mechanical field within a biological material to stimulate the biological cells and\/or tissue in accordance with the present disclosure. For example, the apparatus  illustrated in  according to the present disclosure may be applied to the area of neural stimulation. An initial source electric field  results in a current in the tissue. The electric field  is created by an electric source, current or voltage source. As described in further detail below, the permittivity of the tissue is altered relative to the electric field, for example by a mechanical field, thereby generating an additional displacement current.","Electrodes  are applied to the scalp and generate a low magnitude electric field  over a large brain region. While electrodes  are used and applied to the scalp in this exemplary embodiment, it is envisioned that the electrodes may be applied to a number of different areas on the body including areas around the scalp. It is also envisioned that one electrode may be placed proximal to the tissue being stimulated and the other distant, such as one electrode on the scalp and one on the thorax. It is further envisioned that electric source could be mono-polar with just a single electrode, or multi-polar with multiple electrodes. Similarly, the electric source may be applied to tissue via any medically acceptable medium. It is also envisioned that means could be used where the electric source does not need to be in direct contact with the tissue, such as for example, inductive magnetic sources where the entire tissue region is placed within a large solenoid generating magnetic fields or near a coil generating magnetic fields, where the magnetic fields induce electric currents in the tissue.","The electric source may be direct current (DC) or alternating current (AC) and may be applied inside or outside the tissue of interest. Additionally, the source may be time varying. Similarly, the source may be pulsed and may be comprised of time varying pulse forms. The source may be an impulse. Also, the source according to the present disclosure may be intermittent.","A mechanical source such as an ultrasound source  is applied on the scalp and provides concentrated acoustic energy , i.e., mechanical field to a focused region of neural tissue, affecting a smaller number of neurons  than affected by the electric field , by the mechanical field  altering the tissue permittivity relative to the applied electric field , and thereby generating the altered current . The mechanical source may be any acoustic source such as an ultrasound device. Generally, such device may be a device composed of electromechanical transducers capable of converting an electrical signal to mechanical energy such as those containing piezoelectric materials, a device composed of electromechanical transducers capable of converting an electrical signal to mechanical energy such as those in an acoustic speaker that implement electromagnets, a device in which the mechanical source is coupled to a separate mechanical apparatus that drives the system, or any similar device capable of converting chemical, plasma, electrical, nuclear, or thermal energy to mechanical energy and generating a mechanical field.","Furthermore, the mechanical field could be generated via an ultrasound transducer that could be used for imaging tissue. The mechanical field may be coupled to tissue via a bridging medium, such as a container of saline to assist in the focusing or through gels and\/or pastes which alter the acoustic impedance between the mechanical source and the tissue. The mechanical field may be time varying, pulsed, an impulse, or may be comprised of time varying pulse forms. It is envisioned that the mechanical source may be applied inside or outside of the tissue of interest. There are no limitations as to the frequencies that can be applied via the mechanical source, however, exemplary mechanical field frequencies range from the sub kHZ to 1000s of MHz. Additionally, multiple transducers providing multiple mechanical fields with similar or differing frequencies, and\/or similar or different mechanical field waveforms may be used\u2014such as in an array of sources like those used in focused ultrasound arrays. Similarly, multiple varied electric fields could also be applied. The combined fields, electric and mechanical, may be controlled intermittently to cause specific patterns of spiking activity or alterations in neural excitability. For example, the device may produce a periodic signal at a fixed frequency, or high frequency signals at a pulsed frequency to cause stimulation at pulse frequencies shown to be effective in treating numerous pathologies. Such stimulation waveforms may be those implemented in rapid or theta burst TMS treatments, deep brain stimulation treatments, epidural brain stimulation treatments, spinal cord stimulation treatments, or for peripheral electrical stimulation nerve treatments. The ultrasound source may be placed at any location relative to the electrode locations, i.e., within, on top of, below, or outside the same location as the electrodes as long as components of the electric field and mechanical field are in the same region. The locations of the sources should be relative to each other such that the fields intersect relative to the tissue and cells to be stimulated, or to direct the current alteration relative to the cellular components being stimulated.","The apparatus and method according to the present disclosure generates capacitive currents via permittivity alterations, which can be significant in magnitude, especially in the presence of low frequency applied electric fields. Tissue permittivities in biological tissues are much higher than most other non biological materials, especially for low frequency applied electric fields where the penetration depths of electric fields are highest. This is because the permittivity is inversely related to the frequency of the applied electric field, such that the tissue permittivity magnitude is higher with lower frequencies. For example, for electric field frequencies below 100,000 Hz, brain tissue has permittivity magnitudes as high as or greater than 10^8 (100,000,000) times the permittivity of free space (8.854*10^-12 farad per meter), and as such, minimal local perturbations of the relative magnitude can lead to significant displacement current generation. As the frequency of the electric field increases, the relative permittivity decreases by orders of magnitude, dropping to magnitudes of approximately 10^3 times the permittivity of free space (8.854*10^-12 farad per meter) for electric field frequencies of approximately 100,000 Hz. Additionally, by not being constrained to higher electric field frequencies, the method according to the present disclosure is an advantageous method for stimulating biological tissue due to lowered penetration depth limitations and thus lowered field strength requirements. Additionally, because displacement currents are generated in the area of the permittivity change, focusing can be accomplished via the ultrasound alone. For example, to generate capacitive currents via a permittivity perturbation relative to an applied electric field as described above, broad DC or a low frequency electric source field well below the cellular stimulation threshold is applied to a brain region but stimulation effects are locally focused in a smaller region by altering the tissue permittivity in the focused region of a mechanical field generated by a mechanical source such as an ultrasound source. This could be done noninvasively with the electrodes and the ultrasound device both placed on the scalp surface such that the fields penetrate the tissue surrounding the brain region and intersect in the targeted brain location, or with one or both of the electrodes and\/or the ultrasound device implanted below the scalp surface (in the brain or any of the surrounding tissue) such that the fields intersect in the targeted region.","A displacement current is generated by the modification of the permittivity in the presence of the sub threshold electric field and provides a stimulatory signal. In addition to the main permittivity change that occurs in the tissues, which is responsible for stimulation (i.e., the generation of the altered currents for stimulation), a conductivity change could also occur in the tissue, which secondarily alters the ohmic component of the currents. In a further embodiment, the displacement current generation and altered ohmic current components may combine for stimulation. Generally, tissue conductivities vary slightly as a function of the applied electric field frequency over the DC to 100,000 Hz frequency range, but not to the same degree as the permittivities, and increase with the increasing frequency of the applied electric field. Additionally in biological tissues, unlike other materials, the conductivity and permittivity do not show a simple one-to-one relationship as a function of the applied electric field frequency. The permittivity ranges are as discussed above.","Although the process described may be accomplished at any frequency of the applied electric field, the method in an exemplary embodiment is applied with lower frequency applied electric fields due to the fact the permittivity magnitudes of tissues, as high as or greater than 10^8 times the permittivity of free space, and the electric field penetration depths are highest for low frequency applied electric fields. Higher frequency applied electric fields may be less desirable as they will require greater radiation power to penetrate the tissue and\/or a more pronounced mechanical source for permittivity alteration to achieve the same relative tissue permittivity change, i.e., at higher applied electric field frequencies the permittivity of the tissue is lower and as such would need a greater overall perturbation to have the same overall change in permittivity of a tissue as at a lower frequency. Applied electric field frequencies in the range of DC to approximately 100,000 Hz frequencies are advantageous due to the high tissue permittivity in this frequency band and the high penetration depth for biological tissues at these frequencies. In this band, tissues are within the so called \u2018alpha dispersion band\u2019 where relative tissue permittivity magnitudes are maximally elevated (i.e., as high as or greater than 10^8 times the permittivity of free space). Frequencies above approximately 100,000 to 1,000,000 Hz for the applied electric fields are still applicable for the method described in generating displacement currents for the stimulation of biologic cells and tissue, however, both the tissue permittivity and penetration depth are limited for biological tissues in this band compared to the previous band but displacement currents of sufficient magnitude can still be generated for some applications. In this range, the magnitude of the applied electric field will likely need to be increased, or the method used to alter the permittivity relative to the applied electric field increased to bring about a greater permittivity change, relative to the tissue's permittivity magnitude for the applied electric field frequency. Additionally, due to potential safety concerns for some applications, it may be necessary to limit the time of application of the fields or to pulse the fields, as opposed to the continuous application that is possible in the prior band. For tissues or applications where the safety concerns preclude the technique in deeper tissues, the technique could still be applied in more superficial applications in a noninvasive manner or via an invasive method. Higher frequency applied electric fields, above 1,000,000 to 100,000,000 Hz, could be used in generating displacement currents for the stimulation of biologic cells and tissue. However, this would require a more sufficient permittivity alteration or electromagnetic radiation, and as such is less than ideal in terms of safety than the earlier bands. For frequencies of the applied electric field above 100,000,000 Hz, biologic cell and tissue stimulation may still be possible, but may be limited for specialized applications that require less significant displacement currents.","Systems and methods of the invention include a focusing element. The focusing element may focus either the electric field, the mechanical field, or both simultaneously. In certain embodiments, the focusing element focuses both the electric field and the mechanical field. The focusing element may be composed of inert material (such as a lens) or active material. The focusing element may be designed such that it is acoustically and\/or electrically matched and\/or coupled with the electric field or mechanical field that transmits through them (for example, one could use the matching and\/or coupling to limit the attenuation and\/or modification (i.e., dispersion effects, phase shifting, beam focus, etc) of the mechanical field or electric field), and\/or to alter the mechanical and\/or electric fields properties such as to be ideal for stimulation, for example through matching the acoustic and\/or electric impedances of the sources with the material of the focusing interface and\/or the tissues.","The focusing element could also have its electromagnetic properties matched and\/or altered relative to the electrical source to facilitate the current alteration (such as by matching all of the electric impedances of the relevant parts through the appropriately designed focusing element). In certain embodiments, the focusing element is filled with a fluid, gel, and\/or other material through which the mechanical field can travel unimpeded where the electrode is an electrically conducting thin membrane (connected to a voltage or current source) that is coated in a conducting ultrasound gel at the tissue-interface boundary through which the ultrasound energy and electrical energy can transmit. The fluid above the membrane could be non-conducting such as to prevent the spread of the electric field into the fluid (such that electrical energy focused towards the underlying tissue does not spread to the fluid above contained within the interface component). This concept of matching the properties may be applied in any permutation (via the focusing element and\/or the tissues and\/or with any potential sources, including the primary electrical source(s) and\/or any means for altering the tissue electromagnetic properties (i.e., the ultrasound\/mechanical field and\/or source(s), chemical agent and\/or source(s), thermal field and\/or source(s), optical field\/beam and\/or source(s), and\/or secondary electromagnetic field and\/or source(s))).","As the electric field is to be coupled to the mechanical field, the focusing element itself can be comprised of materials, active and\/or inert, that serve as a bridging medium, thus creating an interface, and thereby appropriately couple and\/or match the acoustic characteristics and\/or electromagnetic properties between the mechanical source and\/or fields (or other means for altering electromagnetic characteristics) and\/or the electric source and\/or fields and\/or the tissues to augment the stimulation. This can be done for example, by having the focusing element at least in part capable of: actively and\/or passively matching and\/or altering the electrical and acoustic impedances of the interface to the electrical and mechanical field frequencies that are tuned to initiate stimulation of tissue, and\/or actively and\/or passively matching and\/or altering the electrical and acoustic impedances of the interface to the sources such that the sources themselves are matched and more efficient in use, and\/or altering its interface materials such that the speed of sound and\/or light is changed in them so that the fields that impinge on the tissue to be stimulated are tuned to the targeted tissue, and\/or altering the dispersive properties of its interface materials so the mechanical and\/or electrical fields have a controllable frequency dependent behavior in the materials such as to tune the field frequencies to neural effect, and\/or making its interface materials capable of filtering the fields as to tune the fields to neural effect, and\/or altering the densities of the interface materials altering the transmission of fields through the interface to maximize neural effect, and\/or allowing its interface materials to shift the phase of individual fields thereby restructuring the waveforms that impinge on the targeted tissue, and\/or altering the focus or targeting of the fields to stimulate different neural targets, and\/or altering the orientation of the vector field components of at least one of the energy fields thereby potentially altering or tuning the neural response of the stimulated cell (for example inhibiting or facilitating the cells based on the final stimulating current density orientation relative to the neural body-axon axis), and\/or altering the magnitude of at least one of the energy fields to maximize neural effect, and\/or altering the field waveform dynamics\/shapes of at least one of the energy fields to tune neural response, etc. Furthermore all of the above such examples could be applied so as to alter the combined energy effects and newly generated and\/or altered currents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["708","710","708"]},"Electrodes , as an electric source, are applied to the scalp through interface component . As depicted in , interface component , can be a cap, helmet, or other item that can be worn by an individual. Further, it is envisioned that electrodes  can be separate or attached to, embedded in, placed on top of, placed on the surface of or fastened within (or any combination to) the interlace component . The cap interface component  can serve as an interface between regions of tissue of an individual and electrodes (or as a holder for the electrodes directly affixed to the skin with an area opened on the interface mechanism). While electrodes  are used and applied to the scalp through the interface mechanism in this exemplary embodiment, it is envisioned that the electrodes may be applied to a number of different areas on, within, or near the body including areas around the scalp through a single interface component, multiple interface components, and\/or a combination of an interface component(s). The electrodes used may or may not be housed in an interface component of the interface apparatus according to the present disclosure. By way of example, the main electrode(s) used could be housed within an interface component affixed to the scalp and a free electrode could be placed in the subject's mouth. It is also envisioned that one electrode may be placed proximal to the tissue being stimulated and the other distant, such as one electrode on the scalp and one on the thorax (through a single interface component (containing at least one of the electrode elements, where the other electrodes may be housed in an interface component and\/or as separate non-interface component-contained electrodes), and\/or through multiple interface components).","It is further envisioned that the electric source could be mono-polar with a single electrode (where a cap interface component could serve as the entire or part of the electrode), or multi-polar with multiple electrodes where at least one of the electrodes is contained (or part of) in at least one interface component. Similarly, the electric source of the interface apparatus (and\/or the interface component) may be applied to tissue via any medically acceptable medium (i.e., gels, creams, pastes, fluids, dry application electrodes, etc). By using dry electrodes (and\/or a dry interface component), one could potentially eliminate the debris left on the subject following stimulation. It is also envisioned that the electric source could generate its field via inductive means whereby a magnetic source is embedded in the cap interface component. The interface component can itself be comprised of inert and\/or active materials that serve as a bridging medium and appropriately couple and\/or match the electromagnetic characteristics between an electrical source and a region or regions of tissue (for example, by actively or passively altering and\/or matching the electrical impedances between the tissues and the electric source(s)). Finally the interface component(s) themselves(s) may serve as an electric sources) itself, in whole or part.","The electrodes generate a source electric field , which results in a current in the tissue. As described in further detail below, the electromagnetic properties of the tissue are altered relative to the electric field, for example by a mechanical field, thereby generating a new and altered current component relative to the initial field and\/or an additional new electrical field component, including ohmic and\/or displacement current components.","As further depicted in , a mechanical source (the mechanical source may be any acoustic source such as an ultrasound device)  is applied on the scalp via interface mechanism  and provides concentrated acoustic energy  (i.e., mechanical field) to a focused region of neural tissue in the brain of a subject. This mechanical field  affects a smaller number of neurons  than is affected by the electric field  and thereby generates the altered current . A block of tissue , is depicted in a magnified view with neurons  to be stimulated in .","The mechanical source  and subsequent field  can be applied to the scalp through the interface mechanism , which can be a cap, helmet, or wearable item as depicted in FIG. . It is envisioned that the mechanical source can be attached to, embedded in, placed on top of, placed on the surface of, or fastened within (or any combination to) the interface component  of interface apparatus . Thus, the interface component  can serve as an interface between the region of tissue or tissues and mechanical source (or as a holder for the mechanical source in direct contact with the tissue). Multiple mechanical sources could be applied (through either one interface mechanism (with multiple mechanical sources), multiple interface mechanisms (containing or interfacing with at least one mechanical source), or through any such combination (and\/or with separate non-interface component-contained mechanical sources)).","While a mechanical source  can be used and applied to the scalp through interface component  as depicted in this exemplary embodiment, it is envisioned that mechanical source(s) may be applied to a number of different areas on, within, or near the body including areas around the scalp through a single interface component, multiple interface components, and\/or a combination of an interface component(s) and\/or mechanical sources that are not housed in an interface component. Similarly, the mechanical source component of the interface apparatus (and\/or the interface component) may be applied to tissue via any medically acceptable medium (i.e., gels, creams, fluids, pastes, etc). The interface component itself can be comprised of materials, active and\/or inert, that serve as a bridging medium, thus creating the interface, and thereby appropriately coupling and\/or matching the mechanical properties between the mechanical source and the targeted tissues (for example, by actively and\/or passively matching and\/or altering the acoustic impedances between the tissues and the electric source(s)). The interface component itself may serve as a mechanical source(s) itself in whole or part.","As the electric field is to be coupled to the mechanical field, the interface component itself can be comprised of materials, active and\/or inert, that serve as a bridging medium, thus creating an interface, and thereby appropriately couple and\/or match the acoustic characteristics and\/or electromagnetic properties between the mechanical source and\/or fields (or other means for altering electromagnetic characteristics) and\/or the electric source and\/or fields and\/or the tissues to augment the stimulation. This can be done for example, by having the interface component at least in part capable of: actively and\/or passively matching and\/or altering the electrical and acoustic impedances of the interface to the electrical and mechanical field frequencies that are tuned to initiate stimulation of neural cells, and\/or actively and\/or passively matching and\/or altering the electrical and acoustic impedances of the interface to the sources such that the sources themselves are matched and more efficient in use, and\/or altering its interface materials such that the speed of sound and\/or light is changed in them so that the fields that impinge on the tissue to be stimulated are tuned to the nerve cells targeted, and\/or altering the dispersive properties of its interface materials so the mechanical and\/or electrical fields have a controllable frequency dependent behavior in the materials such as to tune the field frequencies to neural effect, and\/or making its interface materials capable of filtering the fields as to tune the fields to neural effect, and\/or altering the densities of the interface materials altering the transmission of fields through the interface to maximize neural effect, and\/or allowing its interface materials to shift the phase of individual fields thereby restructuring the waveforms that impinge on the neural tissue, and\/or altering the focus or targeting of the fields to stimulate different neural targets, and\/or altering the orientation of the vector field components thereby potentially altering the neural response of the stimulated cell (for example inhibiting or facilitating the cells based on the final stimulating current density orientation relative to the neural body-axon axis), and\/or altering the magnitude of the fields to maximize neural effect, and\/or altering the field waveform dynamics\/shapes to tune neural response, etc.","While a mechanical source  can be used and applied to the scalp through the interface mechanism in this exemplary embodiment, many other means could be applied to alter the electromagnetic properties of the underlying tissue, and similar property matching and\/or coupling could be enacted across all of the different mechanisms for altering the electromagnetic properties of the tissue (including thermal, chemical, optical, electromagnetic, and\/or mechanical properties) to generate the desired current for stimulation based on matching and\/or coupling the source(s), field(s), and\/or agent(s) and\/or tissue properties through the interface.","It is further envisioned that the interface component may be comprised of one or separate pieces and serve only to couple the mechanical field with the underlying tissue or the electrical field with the underlying tissue separately (or they may be designed so that they are separate but integratable (or just used with separate non-housed electrical and\/or mechanical sources)). The interface component(s) could also be designed to couple the electromagnetic and mechanical fields before being focused on the tissues, such as for example in an appropriate housing paradigm (potentially including the proper placement of the primary electric field source and the means for altering the electromagnetic tissue properties) whereby the fields are coupled appropriately before being focused on the tissues (or to facilitate the subsequent focusing on or into the tissues). The interface component(s) itself can be adjustable in shape, size and\/or position, and\/or allow for the movement and\/or reshaping and\/or resizing of the parts that are embedded within it or attached on it such that either of the sources (electrical and\/or means for altering tissue characteristics) can be adjusted relative to the tissue to be stimulated (such as for example allowing movement of the electric field source or mechanical field source relative to the tissue as might be used for adjustable targeting of locations to be stimulated).","The focus of the electric and mechanical fields to generate an altered current according to the present disclosure may be directed to various structures within the brain or nervous system including but not limited to dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex, any component of the basal ganglia, nucleus accumbens, gastric nuclei, brainstem, thalamus, inferior colliculus, superior colliculus, periaqueductal gray, primary motor cortex, supplementary motor cortex, occipital lobe, Brodmann areas 1-48, primary sensory cortex, primary visual cortex, primary auditory cortex, amygdala, hippocampus, cochlea, cranial nerves, cerebellum, frontal lobe, occipital lobe, temporal lobe, parietal lobe, sub-cortical structures, spinal cord, nerve roots, sensory organs, and peripheral nerves.","The focused tissue may be selected such that a wide variety of pathologies may be treated. Such pathologies that may be treated include but are not limited to Multiple Sclerosis, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Alzheimer's Disease, Dystonia, Tics, Spinal Cord Injury, Traumatic Brain Injury, Drug Craving, Food Craving, Alcohol Craving, Nicotine Craving, Stuttering, Tinnitus, Spasticity, Parkinson's Disease, Parkinsonianism, Obsessions, Depression, Schizophrenia, Bipolar Disorder, Acute Mania, Catonia, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, Autism, Chronic Pain Syndrome, Phantom Limb Pain, Epilepsy, Stroke, Auditory Hallucinations, Movement Disorders, Neurodegenerative Disorders, Pain Disorders, Metabolic Disorders, Addictive Disorders, Psychiatric Disorders, Traumatic Nerve Injury, and Sensory Disorders. Furthermore, electric and mechanical fields to generate an altered current may be focused on specific brain or neural structures to enact procedures including sensory augmentation, sensory alteration, anesthesia induction and maintenance, brain mapping, epileptic mapping, neural atrophy reduction, neuroprosthetic interaction or control with nervous system, stroke and traumatic injury neurorehabilitation, bladder control, assisting breathing, cardiac pacing, muscle stimulation, and treatment of pain syndromes, such as those caused by migraine, neuropathies, and low-back pain; or internal visceral diseases, such as chronic pancreatitis or cancer.","In the focused region of tissue to which the mechanical and electrical fields are delivered, the excitability of individual neurons can be heightened to the point that the neurons can be stimulated by the combined fields, or be affected such as to cause or amplify the alteration of the neural excitability caused by the altered currents, either through an increase or decrease in the excitability of the neurons. This alteration of neural excitability can last past the duration of stimulation and thus be used as a basis to provide lasting treatment. Additionally, the combined fields can be provided in multiple, but separate sessions to have a summed, or carry-over effect, on the excitability of the cells and tissue. The combined fields can be provided prior to another form of stimulation, to prime the tissue making it more or less susceptible to alternate, follow-up forms of stimulation. Furthermore, the combined fields can be provided after an alternate form of stimulation, where the alternate form of stimulation is used to prime the tissue to make it more or less susceptible to the form of stimulation disclosed herein. Furthermore, the combined fields could be applied for a chronic period of time.","Any energy types can be combined for stimulation, such as for example mechanical (acoustic), optical, electromagnetic, thermal, and\/or chemical energy. Any material and\/or sub-property in a focusing and\/or interface element could be actively or passively modified to focus the energy fields and\/or alter the energy field properties for stimulation (and\/or chemical distributions). For example the impedance to energy (e.g., electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, acoustic, thermal, optical, etc.), filtering properties to energy, penetration depth of energy, velocity of propagation of energy, phase velocity of energy, group velocity of energy, reflection properties to energy, refraction properties to energy, scattering properties to energy, diffraction properties to energy, interference properties to energy, absorption properties to energy, attenuation properties to energy, birefringence properties to energy, refractive properties to energy, charge density (e.g., free, paired, ionic, etc.), conductivity to energy, fluid content, ionic concentrations, electrical permittivity, electrical conductivity, electrical capacitance, magnetic permeability, inductive properties, resistive properties, capacitive properties, impedance properties, elasticity properties, stress properties, strain properties, combined properties to multiple energy types (e.g., electroacoustic properties, electrothermal properties, electrochemical properties, etc), piezoelectric properties, piezoceramic properties, condensation properties, magnetic properties, stiffness properties, viscosity properties, gyrotropic properties, uniaxial properties, anisotropic properties, bianisotropic properties, chiral properties, solid state properties, optical properties, ferroelectric properties, ferroelastic properties, density, compressibility properties, kinematic viscosity properties, specific heat properties, Reynolds number, Rayleigh number, Damkohler number, Brinkman number, Nusselt Schmidt number, number, Peclet number, bulk modulus, Young's modulus, Poisson's ratio, Shear Modulus, Prandtl number, Adiabatic bulk modulus, entropy, enthalpy, pressure, heat transfer coefficient, heat capacity, friction coefficients, diffusivity, porosity, mechanical permeability, temperature, thermal conductivity, weight, dimensions, position, velocity, acceleration, shape, convexity mass, molecular concentration of any material and\/or group of materials could be modified to focus the fields and\/or alter the field properties for stimulation (materials can be synthetic, biological, natural, and solids, gasses, liquids, and\/or plasmas). Additional examples of methods and\/or systems of focusing and or modifying the properties of a field for stimulation include using elements such as lenses (of any type (e.g., optical, electromagnetic, electrical, magnetic, acoustic, thermal, chemical, etc) which can have their focusing properties modified or tuned); using waveguides; using fiber optics; phase matching between materials; impedance matching between materials; using reflection, refraction, diffraction, interference, and\/or scattering methods.","The focusing and\/or interface element may be actively controlled by any medical imaging modality (such as, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), functional MRI (fMRI), ultrasound, positron emission tomography (PET), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), computer aided tomography scan (CAT-scan), XRAY, optical coherence tomography (OCT), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI), electro-acoustic imaging, electromagnetic based imaging, electro-encephalogram (EEG), electromyogram (EMG), high density EEG, electrocardiogram (EKG) electrical based imaging, magnetic based imaging, nuclear based imaging, optical (photonic) based imaging, mechanical based imaging, thermal based imaging, combined imaging modalities, imaging with contrast agents, imaging without contrast agents, etc), physiological measurements, stimulation subject assessment measures, and\/or biofeedback measures may be combined with the process for tissue stimulation (such as those explained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/162,047, the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety). For example, imaging information could also be used to provide guidance for the design and property tuning of the focusing and\/or interface apparatus between the subject to be stimulated and the stimulation source(s). For example, one might simply determine the placement of the source(s) of stimulation and\/or the properties of the focusing and\/or interface apparatus between the stimulation patient and the device (such as for example the dimensions, materials impedances, and\/or design criteria) based on anatomical landmarks determined from the image and predetermined source characteristics (such as for example the beam profile of an ultrasonic transducer and the predicted field distribution of an electric field source). Imaging modalities, physiological measurements, stimulation subject assessment measures, and\/or biofeedback measures can also be used to track the effect of stimulation, and ultimately be integrated with the stimulator and\/or focusing and\/or interface apparatus to provide a closed loop system of controlled stimulation (and\/or with the targeting\/field information described above); effectively they could also be integrated with a focusing and\/or interface element to increase the apparatus's efficiency or modify its use relative to the measures outlined above such as but not limited to altering the material properties of the focusing element (such as for example altering the electrical impedance of a component(s) of the focusing element or altering a mechanical\/acoustic properties of a component(s) of the focusing mechanism such as the acoustic impedance); altering composition(s) of the material(s) within and\/or on the focusing and\/or interface element (such as fluid concentrations to couple a mechanical source with tissues to be stimulated); to control the number of uses of the focusing element (or the duration of its use); and\/or any adjustable quality as described above in the focusing and\/or interface element. One could implement a closed loop system which could automatically tune stimulation and\/or focusing and\/or the interface based on the information\/feedback which is gathered and fed into an automated control system(s) to tune stimulation results to a desired response based on a particular algorithm and\/or an adaptive system; one could implement a system which allows a person or persons operating the stimulation and\/or focusing system to modify the stimulation system itself to achieve a desired response relative to the information\/feedback that is gathered; and\/or a hybrid system of control (note that the information\/feedback can be gained from any imaging modalities, biofeedback, physiological measures, and\/or other measures as exemplified above). This could furthermore allow for pre, during, or post stimulation targeting\/localization via calculations based on an initial imaging modality, physiological measurements, stimulation subject assessment measures, and\/or biofeedback measures that may be combined with the process for tissue stimulation and\/or the properties of the focusing apparatus and\/or properties of the interface mechanism. These modifications can be made before a stimulation session (based on previously obtained\/analyzed information), during stimulation (with real time or online information), or following stimulation for subsequent stimulation sessions (with data analyzed following stimulation). One could also adjust\/tune the stimulation and\/or focusing and\/or interface parameters based on the information acquired before stimulation not compared to anything, during stimulation (online) compared to the pre-stimulation baseline, inter-stimulation session comparisons, cross stimulation session comparisons, pre vs. post stimulation comparisons, across multiple samples (such as across patient populations with averaged data), and\/or any combination or permutation in which the data is obtained and\/or analyzed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["30","32","34","36","38","34","40","36","36","38","34","42","44","38","36","32","44","44","36","32","36"]},"By providing the mechanical field  to the sub region of tissue , the permittivity can be altered within the electric field  by either new elements of the sub region of tissue  vibrating in and out of the electric field such that the continuum permittivity of the tissue is changed relative to the electric field , or that the bulk properties of the sub region of tissue  and the permittivity, or tissue capacitance, change due to the mechanical perturbation. An example of altering the permittivity within the electric field can occur when a cell membrane and extra-cellular fluid, both of different permittivities, are altered in position relative to the electric field by the mechanical field. This movement of tissues of different permittivity relative to the electric field will generate a new displacement current. The tissues could have permittivity values as high as or greater than 10^8 times the permittivity of free space, differ by orders of magnitude, and\/or have anisotropic properties such that the tissue itself demonstrates a different permittivity magnitude depending on the relative direction of the applied electric field. An example of altering permittivity of the bulk tissue occurs where the relative permittivity constant of the bulk tissue is directly altered by mechanical perturbation in the presence of an electric field. The mechanical source, i.e., ultrasound source may be placed at any location relative to the electrode locations, i.e., within or outside the same location as the electrodes, as long as components of the electric field and mechanical field are in the same region.","Tissue permittivities can be altered relative to the applied electric fields via a number of methods. Mechanical techniques can be used to either alter the bulk tissue permittivity relative to an applied electric field or move tissue components of differing permittivities relative to an applied electric field. There are no specific limitations to the frequency of the mechanical field that is applied as previously discussed, however, exemplary frequencies range from the sub kHZ to 1000s of MHz. A second electromagnetic field could be applied to the tissue, at a different frequency than the initial frequency of the applied electromagnetic field, such that it alters the tissue permittivity at the frequency dependent point of the initially applied electric field. An optical signal could also be focused on the tissues to alter the permittivity of the tissue relative to an applied electric field. A chemical agent or thermal field could also be applied to the tissues to alter the permittivity of the tissue relative to an applied electric field. These methods could also be used in combination to alter the tissue permittivity relative to an applied electric field via invasive or noninvasive methods.","For example,  shows a set up  for generating an altered current with a newly generated displacement current  through the combined effects of an electric field  and a chemical agent . A tissue or composite of tissues  is placed within an electric source  which generates an electric field  and combined with chemical source  which releases a chemical agent  that can be focused on the tissue . In the area that the chemical agent  is released in the tissue , the electric field  transects the sub region of tissue , and the chemical agent  reacts with the sub region of tissue  to alter the tissue's relative permittivity relative to the applied electric field . This generates a displacement current  in addition to the current that would be present due to the source electric field . The chemical agent  may be any agent which can react with the tissue or cellular components of the tissue  to alter its permittivity relative to the electric field . This may be by a thermoreactive process to raise or lower the tissue  temperature or through a chemical reaction which alters the distribution of ions in the cellular and extra-cellular media, for instance, along ionic double layers at cell walls in the tissue . Similarly, the conformation of proteins and other charged components within the tissue  could be altered such that the permittivity of the tissue is altered relative to the low frequency electric field . The agent could also be any agent that adapts the permanent dipole moments of any molecules or compounds in the tissue , temporarily or permanently relative to the low frequency electric field . The chemical reaction driven by the chemical agent  must work rapidly enough such that the permittivity of the tissue is quickly altered in the presence of the electric field  in order to generate the displacement current . The reaction may also be such as to fluctuate the permittivity, such that as the permittivity continues to change displacement currents continue to be generated. In addition to the main permittivity change that occurs in the tissues, a conductivity change could also occur in the tissue, which secondarily alters the ohmic component of the currents. A biological agent may be used in place of, or in addition to, the chemical agent . This embodiment may have particular application for focused drug delivery where an additional chemical or biological agent is included to assist in therapy of the tissue, or where the altered current could drive an additional electrochemical reaction for therapy. For example, this could be used in areas such as focused gene therapy or focused chemotherapy.","Another example is shown in , which illustrates a set up  for applying a method for generating an altered current with a newly generated displacement current  through the combined effects of a low frequency electric field  and an electromagnetic radiation field . A tissue or composite of tissues  is placed within a low frequency electric field  which is generated by an electric source  and combined with radiation source  which generates a radiation field  that can be focused on the tissue . In the area that the radiation field  is focused in the tissue , the electric field  transects the sub component of tissue , where the radiation field  interacts with the sub component of tissue  to alter the tissue's relative permittivity relative to the applied electric field , and as such generates a displacement current  in addition to the current that would be present due to the source electric field  or the radiation source field  alone. The electromagnetic radiation field  could, for example, interact with the tissue  by altering its temperature through ohmic processes, alter the distribution of ions in the cellular and extra-cellular media for instance along ionic double layers along cell walls through the electric forces acting on the ions, or alter the conformation of proteins and other charged components within the tissue through the electric forces such that the permittivity of the tissue is altered relative to the low frequency electric field . Furthermore, the electromagnetic field , could interact with the tissue  by moving components of the tissue via electrorestrictive forces, as would be seen in anisotropic tissues, to alter the continuum permittivity of the tissue relative to the low frequency electric field . In addition to the main permittivity change that occurs in the tissues, a conductivity change could also occur in the tissue, which secondarily alters the ohmic component of the currents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["90","92","94","96","98","94","100","102","96","98","96","94","104","96","94","92","94","96","94"]},"In another embodiment, a thermal source to alter the permittivity of the tissue may be used. In such embodiments, a thermal source such as a heating probe, a cooling probe, or a hybrid probe may be placed external or internal to the tissue to be stimulated. A thermal source may alter the permittivity of the tissue through the direct permittivity dependence of tissue temperature, mechanical expansion of tissues in response to temperature changes, or by mechanical forces that arise due to altered particle and ionic agitation in response to the temperature alteration such that permittivity of the tissue is altered relative to an applied electric field. In addition to the main permittivity change that occurs in the tissues, a conductivity change could also occur in the tissue, which secondarily alters the ohmic component of the currents. This embodiment may be useful for stimulation in the presence of an acute injury to the tissue where the thermal source could be used to additionally assist in the treatment of the tissue injury, for example with a traumatic brain injury or an infarct in any organ such as the heart. The tissue could be cooled or heated at the same time stimulation is provided to reduce the impact of an injury.","In a further embodiment, the method according to the present disclosure is applied in the area of muscular stimulation, where amplified, focused, direction altered, and\/or attenuated currents could be used to alter muscular activity via direct stimulation, depolarizing muscular cells, hyperpolarizing muscular cells, modifying membrane potentials, and\/or increasing or decreasing the excitability of the muscle cells. This alteration of excitability or firing patterns can last past the duration of stimulation and thus be used as a basis to provide lasting treatment. Additionally, the stimulation can be provided in multiple, but separate sessions to have a summed, or carry-over effect, on the excitability of cells and tissue. Additionally, the stimulation could be provided to prime the tissue by adjusting the muscle cell excitability to make it more or less susceptible to alternate follow up forms of stimulation. The stimulation could be used after another form of stimulation was used to prime the tissue. Furthermore, the stimulation could be applied for a chronic period of time. This embodiment may be useful for altering or assisting cardiac pacing or function, assisted breathing, muscle stimulation for rehabilitation, muscle stimulation in the presence of nerve or spinal cord injury to prevent atrophy or assist in movement, or as substitution for physical exercise.","In yet another embodiment, the method according to the present disclosure can be applied the area of physical therapy, where amplified, focused, direction altered, and\/or attenuated currents could be used to stimulate blood flow, increase or alter neuromuscular response, limit inflammation, speed the break down of scar tissue, and speed rehabilitation by applying the focus of the current generation to the effected region in need of physical therapy. It is envisioned that the method according to the present disclosure may have a wide variety in the area of physical therapy including the treatment or rehabilitation of traumatic injuries, sports injuries, surgical rehabilitation, occupational therapy, and assisted rehabilitation following neural or muscular injury. For instance, following an injury to a joint or muscle, there is often increased inflammation and scar tissue in the region and decreased neural and muscular response. Typically, ultrasound is provided to the affected region to increase blood flow to the region and increase the metabolic re-absorption of the scar tissue while electrical stimulation is provided separately to the nerves and muscles; however, by providing them together, a person could receive the benefit of each individual effect, but additionally amplified stimulatory and metabolic effects through the altered currents. The other methods for generating altered currents discussed within could also be used to assist in physical therapy via the displacement currents that are generated.","Furthermore, the method according to the present disclosure may be applied to the area of cellular metabolism, where currents could be used to interact with electrically receptive cells or charged membranes to alter the tissue or cellular dynamics. It is envisioned that this embodiment could provide treatment for various diseases where electrically receptive cells respond to the newly generated displacement currents and altered current distribution.","Furthermore, the method according to the present disclosure may be applied to the area of gene therapy. Amplified, focused, direction altered, and\/or attenuated currents could be used to interact with electrically receptive cells or receptors within the cell to influence protein transcription processes and alter the genetic content of the cells. The altered current densities in the tissue can interact with the tissue to stimulate this altered gene regulation. Additionally, the displacement currents generated by the method could further be used to assist in drug delivery and\/or gene therapy through the altered current influence on the delivery of agents.","References and citations to other documents, such as patents, patent applications, patent publications, journals, books, papers, web contents, have been made throughout this disclosure. All such documents are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.","The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting on the invention described herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above-mentioned and other features and objects of this invention, and the manner of attaining them, will become more apparent and the invention itself will be better understood by reference to the following description of embodiments of the invention taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
