---
title: Method, device, and system to share information between mobile computing devices
abstract: A mobile computing device comprising a first application adapted to provide information to a server. The information is adapted to be shared by the server with at least one additional mobile computing device when the at least one additional mobile computing device is located within a specified range of the mobile computing device. Additionally, a password entered through a second application located on the additional mobile computing device may be required to correspond to a password received from the mobile computing device in order to share the information. Furthermore, the additional mobile computing device may be required to access the information within a specified time period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08776193&OS=08776193&RS=08776193
owner: Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc.
number: 08776193
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110516
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to mobile computing devices. In particular, but not by way of limitation, the present invention relates to securely sharing content between mobile computing devices and between mobile devices and the internet.","Currently, there are applications available to mobile computing device users that enable the users to share information between mobile computing devices. Such applications may allow users to select content on a mobile computing device and subsequently share the content with a second mobile computing device also using the same application. Although such applications seem to create an effective way to share content, such applications fail to provide sufficient security and information integrity. Therefore, the shared content may be potentially stolen by a third party through, for example, phishing.","Illustrative embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood, however, that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications, equivalents, and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.","Embodiments of the invention described herein provide a secure exchange of data between mobile computing devices by ensuring that the information sender and the information receiver are who they say they are, and are located where they say they are. One embodiment of the invention may be characterized as a first mobile computing device. The first mobile computing device comprises a first application adapted to provide information to a server. The information, in turn, is adapted to be shared with at least one additional mobile computing device when the at least one additional mobile computing device is located within a specified range of the first mobile computing device. Additionally, the information is adapted to be shared when at least one of (i) a password is entered through a second application located on the at least one additional mobile computing device and (ii) the information is accessed by the at least one additional mobile computing device within a specified time period.","Another embodiment of the invention may be characterized as a method of sharing information between mobile computing devices. One method comprises locating a first mobile computing device at a first location and locating a second mobile computing device at a second location, with the second location being proximate the first location. The method then comprises sending content from the first mobile computing device to a network device. In one method, the content includes the first location, a location range for sharing the content, and a period of time for accessing the content. A request for the content is then sent from the second mobile computing device to the network device with the request comprising the second location, and in response to the request, the content is provided from the network device to the second mobile computing device.","Yet another embodiment of the invention may be characterized as a mobile computing system. One mobile computing system comprises a means for sharing content from a first mobile computing device. The first mobile computing device may comprise one or more first applications adapted to provide the content to share, a first API adapted to enable sharing criteria from the first mobile computing device and a first mobile operating system adapted to add a first mobile computing device location to a request to receive the content. The mobile computing system further comprises a means for requesting to receive the content to share, the request being sent from a second mobile computing device. One second mobile device comprises one or more second applications adapted to request the content to share, a second API adapted to enable a second mobile computing device sharing criteria, and a second mobile operating system adapted to add a second mobile computing device location to the content to share. The mobile computing system further comprises a means for receiving the content to share from the first mobile computing device at a network device comprising at least one database. The network device is adapted to write the content to share to the at least one database, receive the request for the content to share form the second mobile computing device, read the content to share from the at least one database, compare the first mobile computing device sharing criteria to the second mobile computing device sharing criteria, and send the content to share to the second mobile computing device.","And yet another embodiment of the invention may be characterized as a non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage medium encoded with processor-readable instructions to perform a method of sharing content from a first mobile computing device. One method comprises enabling one or more sharing parameters for the content, providing the content to a server through a first communication channel, and providing a password to a second mobile computing device. The second mobile computing device is adapted to provide the password to the server through a second communication channel and request the content through the second communication channel. The password is provided to the second mobile computing device through a third communication channel.","Turning first to , seen is a first mobile computing device  in a mobile computing system . One first mobile computing device  comprises a first mobile computing device operating system which may comprise an Android mobile operating system. The first mobile computing device  may also comprise at least one first application adapted to provide information to a server . In one embodiment, the application may be stored on a first mobile computing device memory, may comprise a SAAS application, or may comprise another application type known in the art. The information is adapted to be shared with at least one additional mobile computing device . At least one of the at least one additional mobile computing device  may comprise a second mobile computing device. In one embodiment, the information comprises data stored on the first mobile computing device memory such as, but not limited to, contact information. The information may also comprise content received via the first application, such as, but not limited to, web content. In one embodiment, the information may comprise HTML content. It is to be appreciated that the terms information, content, and data may be used interchangeably herein, where appropriate, to describe the information shared between devices.","In one embodiment, the information is shared from the first mobile computing device  to the at least one additional mobile computing device  when one or more sharing criteria provided by the at least one additional mobile computing device  matches one or more sharing criteria provided by the first mobile computing device . The parameters of the sharing criteria may be manually set by a first mobile computing device user or may be automatically set and\/or provided by the first mobile computing device , the first application, or the server . The sharing criteria may be referred to throughout the application as sharing parameters, sharing criteria, parameters or criteria.","One of the sharing criteria comprises a location of the first mobile computing device  and a location of the at least one additional mobile computing device . The location of the at least one additional mobile computing device  may be referred to as a second location. The location of the first mobile computing device  may be referred to as a first location. In one embodiment, the information may be shared when the at least one additional mobile computing device  is located within a specified range (i.e., a location range) of the first mobile computing device . For example, upon launching the first application, a user of the first mobile computing device  may enter a range, relative to the first location, in the first application that the information may be shared within. For example, a user may enter a distance from the location of the first mobile computing device  as the location range. Alternatively, the location range may be automatically set by the first application or the server ; for example, depending on the nature of the content (contact information, video clip, etc.) or the type of user (personal, corporate), the server  may automatically set a specific range. Therefore, in one embodiment, the first mobile computing device  provides a location of the first mobile computing device  and the location range to the server . The at least one additional mobile computing device  provides a location of the at least one additional mobile computing device  to the server . The location of each device is compared by the server  and if the two devices are within the range, the information may be shared between devices. Such a determination may comprise determining a distance the at least one additional mobile computing device  is from the first mobile computing device .","Another sharing criteria may comprise a password. In one embodiment, the information may be shared when a password entered through a second application located on the at least one additional mobile computing device  corresponds to a password entered through the first application. The password may be manually entered by the user of the first mobile computing device  and the user of the at least one additional mobile computing device  or the password may be automatically set by the first application and\/or the second application. It is contemplated that the password may comprise one or more of text, picture(s), sound(s), vibration(s), and\/or other device movements such as but not limited to, moving the device in a circular motion. Yet another sharing criteria may comprise a time period for accessing the data. Therefore, the information may be shared when the server  receives the password from both the first mobile computing device  and the second mobile computing device and determines the passwords are the same. Furthermore if the information is accessed by the at least one additional mobile computing device  within a specified time period, the information may be shared. The time period may be manually set by the user of the first mobile computing device  or automatically set by the first application or the server .","In one embodiment, the first application and the second application may comprise the same application, with separate instances of the application running on separate devices. The application may share information using HTTP protocol. At least one of the first application and the second application may comprise a web browser, where the information and sharing criteria may be entered through a website hosted by a web hosting device comprising the server . The information shared may comprise HTML content, one or more photos or the information may comprise one or more documents.","Turning now the , seen is a method  of sharing information between mobile computing devices. One method  may comprise sharing information between the first mobile computing device  and the at least one additional mobile computing devices  of . One method  starts at  and at  comprises locating the first mobile computing device  at a first location. At  the method  comprises locating the second mobile computing device at a second location\u2014where the second location is proximate to the first location. It is contemplated that in one embodiment, the two mobile computing devices may each be used by a different, or the same, mobile computing device user wishing to share information between the devices. For example, upon meeting at a restaurant, the two mobile computing device users may wish to securely share contact information so that the two users may contact each other at a later point in time.","At  one method  comprises sending content to share from the first mobile computing device  to a network device such as, but not limited to, the server . In one embodiment, the content comprises sharing criteria such as, but not limited to the first location, a location range for sharing the content, and a period of time for sharing the content. Other criteria are contemplated. In one embodiment, the first location may comprise a gps co-ordinate. However, other location-based information is also contemplated. For example, a location obtained from a Network Initiate Location Service may be provided. A period of time for sharing the content may be set by the user of the first mobile computing device . For example, the user may set a sharing period of 30 mins upon choosing information to share. Longer time periods may be desireable when the user of the first mobile computing device  anticipates sharing the same information to multiple mobile computing devices. In such a case, the user of the mobile computing device  may provide the same password to each additional mobile computing device  the information is sought to be shared with. Shorter periods of time are also contemplated. Therefore, upon the first application being launched on the first mobile computing device  and a first mobile computing device user selecting the information to share and initiating sharing of the information, the information may then be uploaded to the server  from the first mobile computing device  with the sharing parameters.","The location range may be adjusted depending on the nature of the information the user is sharing. For example, a smaller range such as, but not limited to, 5 m, may be chosen for sharing contact information to a single person. However, a larger range such as, but not limited to 250 m may be used when sharing, for example, corporate information related to a new product at a conference. Greater and smaller distances are also contemplated as well as an infinite range (available to all network users in any location) may be granted to users such as, but not limited to, corporate users providing coupon discounts or the like. Individual users may be able to enable or disable specific types of information sharing\u2014such as disabling corporate sharing, etc., through the application.","At  the  method comprises sending a request for the content from the second mobile computing device to the network device, where the request comprises a location of the second mobile computing device. At any point after the sharing of the information is initiated, when the one or more additional mobile computing devices  launches the second application (such as, but not limited to, by accessing a website), a user of the one or more mobile computing devices  may enter a password in the second application. The second application may then send the request for the content from the second mobile computing device to the network device. Such a request may comprise the sharing criteria of the password, location, and time of the request. The information may be shared so long as the provided sharing criteria is within the range as set by the first application, are met. For example, the request for the content from the second mobile computing device may comprise the location of the second mobile computing device and may also comprise a location resolution, or accuracy. In one embodiment, the accuracy of the location of the second mobile computing device may be determined based on a location device , as seen in . For example, one location device  may be a GPS device located on the one or more mobile computing devices . Alternatively, the location device  may comprise at least one of hardware and software and may determine the location based on a cell-tower location that the second mobile computing device is connected to. Other location devices  are contemplated. Depending on the type of location device  used, the accuracy of the location of the second mobile computing device may be affected. For example, a GPS location device  may be accurate to within 5 m, while a second mobile computing device location determined from a cell tower location bay only be accurate to within 1 km. The accuracy of the second mobile computing device during a gps time-to-fix (TTF) may also be used. Whether the information is shared may be based on the accuracy of the location. For example, with a 5 m accuracy, the second mobile computing device location may be determined to be within the location range for the information to be shared. However, with a 1 km accuracy, the second mobile computing device may be determined to be inside or outside the range for sharing the information. In one embodiment, the user of the first mobile computing device , may adjust a setting for the accuracy of the location of the second mobile computing device. In one example with a 1 km accuracy, the outer location of the second mobile computing device may be determined to be 0.5 km away from the range of sharing the information, the information may not be shred. However, the information may be shared as well. The accuracy of the location, as well as whether the information is shared, may be device-dependent. Therefore, when the second mobile computing device is within the established range, the password is correct, and the second mobile computing device requests the information within the time period, the information is shared.","Seen in . is one example of a graphical user interface (GUI) of a second application displayed on an electronic display  of one or more additional mobile computing devices . Such a display may be seen upon the second mobile computing device launching the second application, entering the password, and the sharing criteria being met at the network device. It is contemplated that the first mobile computing device  or second mobile computing device may compare the sharing criteria as well. In one embodiment, the second mobile computing device may receive the password from the first mobile computing device  across a communication channel  as seen in  such as, but not limited to, a Bluetooth communication channel. Other, communication channels  comprising secure communication channels are also contemplated.","As seen in , upon entering the password and meeting the parameters, the application may display one or more users . The one or more users  may be displayed as a phone number, a name that may be listed in a contact list on the one or more additional mobile computing device , or a name supplied by the application. For example, a user may register as \u201cAcme Corporation\u201d or any other screen name, which may be displayed to other users of the application. Content  provided from each of the one or more users  may also be displaced. For example a link may be provided for a user to click and receive the content  associated with that link. In one embodiment, the name displayed for the content  (Content A, etc) may be manually set by the first mobile computing device user or may be automatically set by the application. In other embodiments, the original content  provided to the second mobile computing device and displayed is not a link to additional content , but may be a display of the content  to share such as, but not limited to, a jpeg or text.","At  the method  comprises providing the content from the network device to the second mobile computing device. For example, upon clicking the link comprising the content , the server  may send information received from the first mobile computing device , and stored on the server , to the second mobile computing device, when the sharing criteria are met. Alternatively, the content  may be sent and displayed upon the password being entered. The method ends at .","Additional methods , not seen in , may include sending content  from the first mobile computing device  to a network device over a first connection . In one method, the first connection  may comprise a secured TCP\/IP connection. The first connection  may be established upon launching the first application. A request for the content from the second mobile computing device to the network device may occur, and may provide the password to the network device over a second connection , which may also comprise a secure TCP\/IP connection. The communication channel  in which the password is supplied from the first mobile computing device  to the second mobile computing device may comprise a third connection.","The first mobile computing device  may also send one or more content updates to the network device. For example, the password, content, or location range may be updated. In one embodiment, providing the content  from the network device to the second mobile computing device may comprise creating a list of the content provided to the second mobile computing device. One type of a content list is seen in the  list of the content  and users . Such a list may be provided in an HTML format to the second mobile computing device. Other formats and other content displays are contemplated. Filtering of which content  is displayed may also occur. For example, filtering may depend on the type of content  being shared, or the end user, mobile computing device type, and\/or network carrier.","Seen in  is one method  of exchanging information between mobile computing devices. IN one embodiment, at least one mobile computing device may comprise an Android device with an XTRA interface. In one method , the first mobile computing device , which may be referred to throughout the specification and figures as Mobile A, may comprise one or more applications  comprising Android Applications. At least one of the one or more applications  may send a Send Extra Bundle command to an Android API (Application Programming Interface)  on the first mobile computing device , which may be done through a SendExtraCommand interface. The Send Extra Bundle command may comprise HTML information to share. Similarly, a second mobile computing device, which may be referred to throughout the specification and figures as Mobile B, may also comprise one or more applications  that may comprise Android Applications where one of the one or more applications  may send a Request Extra Bundle command to the Android API  of the second mobile computing device. As seen in , the steps (comprising arrows) are each numbered -, which refers to the order in which the steps may be taken. Therefore, the Request Extra Bundle may be the fifth step in the process and the Send Extra Bundle may be the first step in the process, in one method .","One second step may comprise the Android API  of the first mobile computing device  relaying the Send Extra Bundle command to the Android OS  of the first mobile computing device . The Android OS  may be referred to as the Android Platform. In one method , the Android OS  may add a location fix to the injected Extra Bundle, ensuring the integrity of the location fix for the information in the Extra Bundle for the first mobile computing device \u2014since the location is being set by the mobile computing device itself. As a third step, the Android OS  may then send the Extra Bundle with the added location fix to the server , which may be referred to as the Extra Sharing Server. The server  may then perform a fourth step of a Write Extra Bundle command in writing the information and location fix to an Extra Database located on the server .","After the fifth step described above occurs after the Write Extra Bundle, similar to the first mobile computing device , the Android API  of the second mobile computing device sends the Request Extra Bundle to the Android OS  of the second mobile computing device. The Android OS  may add the location fix to the Request Extra Bundle, guaranteeing the location of the Request comes from the location of the second mobile computing device. At step , the server  is sent the Request Extra Bundle from the second mobile computing device. At step  the server  then matches the sharing criteria, such as, but not limited to, matching Mobile A location information with the Mobile B location information and determining if the locations coincide with the location range. At step , the information to be shared is read if the criteria is met and the information is then sent to Mobile B. At step  the Android API  performs the Receive Extra Bundle and at step , the Get Extra Bundle may be given to the application  through an Android Location Listener interface.","Seen in  is one example of a call flow  between the first mobile computing device , the second mobile computing device, and the server  in exchanging information from the first mobile computing device  to the second mobile computing device. The sharing of information may begin at , where the first mobile computing device  launches a sharing application. At , the first mobile computing device  publishes the information to share, which may comprise uploading an HTML index page, access criteria, password (passphrase), and the HTML page content to the server . At , the second mobile computing device may launch a sharing application, which may comprise a web browser. At , the second mobile computing device requests the information from the server  which in one call flow  comprises requesting a HTML page index from the server , and which may prompt the server  at  to check the access criteria and determine whether the second mobile computing device may receive the information. Access criteria refers to the sharing criteria. If the sharing criteria is satisfied, at , the server  delivers the HTML page index to the second mobile computing device. In one embodiment, the HTML page index may comprise the display  seen in .","At , the second mobile computing device may select a content link from the displayed HTML page index list and at  sends (i) a request for the HTML and (ii) a password to the server . At  the server  checks the password to ensure it is the same as the password supplied by the first mobile computing device . At , the HTML content is delivered to the second mobile computing device from the server  when the password is confirmed. At  the second mobile computing device renders the content, while at  the first mobile computing device  disables sharing, for example, by exiting the application. At  the server  removes the content from sharing or when the information is sent, upon expiration of the time period for sharing, and at  the second mobile computing device closes the application. At  seen are examples of updates of the access criteria from the first mobile computing device . For example, the first mobile computing device may update the time period or the range for accessing the content.","Returning now to  seen is the mobile computing system . One mobile computing system  comprises means for sharing content from the first mobile computing device . The system  may also comprise a means for requesting to receive the content, wherein the request is sent from a second mobile computing device that may comprise one of the one or more additional mobile computing devices . The content may be sent from a network device that may comprise the server . The first mobile computing device  may comprise one or more first applications such as, but not limited to, the one or more applications  of , adapted to share content between mobile computing devices. The system  may further comprise means for receiving the content at the network device from the first mobile computing device .","In one embodiment, the first mobile computing device  may also comprise a first API, which may comprise the Android API  seen in . The first API may be adapted to enable the sharing criteria for the first mobile computing device . The mobile computing device  may also comprise a first mobile computing device operating system which may comprise the Android OS . As explained with respect to , it may be the first mobile computing device operating system that assigns a location of the first mobile computing device  to the content. However, the location may also be provided from another portion of the mobile computing device .","The second mobile computing device may also comprise a second API adapted to enable sharing criteria for the second mobile computing device. The second mobile computing device may also comprise a second mobile operating system adapted to add a second mobile computing device location to the request to receive the content to share, and may comprise one or more applications  adapted to request the content to share.","In one embodiment, the network device may comprise at least one database and may be adapted to receive the content to share from the first mobile computing device , write the content to share to the at least one database, receive the request for the content to share from the second mobile computing device, and read the content to share from the at least one database. The network device may also review the first mobile computing device sharing criteria and the second mobile computing device sharing criteria, and send the content to share to the second mobile computing device when the sharing criteria of the two mobile computing devices are accepted by the network device.","In one system , at least one of the second mobile computing device and network device  may be adapted to compare the second mobile computing device location to a location of the first mobile computing device  and determine whether the second mobile computing device is located with an acceptable sharing range of the first mobile computing device location so that the second mobile computing device may receive the content . The system  may also comprise the first connection  which may comprise a first secure communication channel between the first mobile computing device  and the network device. The first communication channel may comprise a means to share the content. The second connection  may comprise a second secure communication channel, and may be located between the network device and the second communication device. The second connection  may be a separate communication channel from the first communication channel. The second communication channel may comprise a means to share the content. Finally, the third connection may also comprise the communication channel  comprising a third secure communication channel between the first mobile computing device  and the second mobile computing device. The third connection may be different than the first and second communication channels and may comprise a means to send a password between the devices.","In one embodiment, at least one of the first application and second application, first API and second API, and the first mobile operating system and second mobile operating system may be adapted to include in the content at least one of GNSS information and hardware-specific information. Such information may be used to determine whether the information should be shared. The first mobile computing device sharing criteria and the second mobile computing device sharing criteria may comprise the password shared across the third communication channel, and may also comprise a time-based sharing criteria such as, but not limited to, the time period for accessing the data. Additionally, at least one of the first and second application may comprise one or more applications comprising a web browser comprising a location-based add-on.","It is further contemplated that one embodiment of the invention may comprise a non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage medium encoded with processor-readable instructions to perform a method of sharing content from the first mobile computing device . The non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage medium may be stored on the first mobile computing device . One method of sharing content comprises enabling one or more content sharing parameters on the first mobile computing device , providing the content  to the server  through the first communication channel , and providing a password to a second mobile computing device. The second mobile computing device may be adapted to provide the password to the server through the second communication channel . The second mobile computing device may also request the content from the server through the second communication channel  and receive the password from the first mobile computing device  through the third communication channel . Furthermore, the content may comprise content in HTML format and the one or more sharing parameters may comprise a sharing range relative to a location of the first mobile computing device  and a sharing time limit. Additionally, the method may further comprise using a first mobile computing device Secure Platform Software to attach a first mobile computing device location to the content and disabling sharing of the content.","In conclusion, embodiments of the present invention enable a more secure exchange of information between mobile computing devices. Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the invention, its use and its configuration to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly, there is no intention to limit the invention to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations, modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention as expressed in the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION ON THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various objects and advantages and a more complete understanding of the present invention are apparent and more readily appreciated by reference to the following Detailed Description and to the appended claims when taken in conjunction with the accompanying Drawings, where like or similar elements are designated with identical reference numerals throughout the several views and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
