---
title: Checkout queue virtualization system for retail establishments
abstract: Disclosed is a system and mechanism that virtualizes a physical queue in a retail establishment. Customers using this system have the ability to indicate they would like to pay now (i.e., enter the virtual queue) using a button on their mobile device, and then they continue shopping until the mobile device informs them to proceed to a checkout counter. In addition, the system implements features that address users waiting in the queue. One feature is about transactions within the queue. This means that customers can buy priority using their mobile device, while waiting. Another feature is targeted advertisement and recommendation of products, leading to increased impulsive purchases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510163&OS=08510163&RS=08510163
owner: SAP AG
number: 08510163
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20111020
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to checkout systems, and in particular to virtualization of checkout lines (queues) in a retail establishment.","Unless otherwise indicated herein, the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.","Queuing at checkout counters seems to be an unavoidable part in the daily shopping experience. A study by a British online discount store revealed that the average Briton spends one month queuing during his lifetime. Recent market research data indicates that in Germany on average 4.72 customers are waiting in supermarket lines, leading to an average waiting time of seven minutes.","For the majority of shoppers, queuing is perceived to be bothersome. A study reveals that 35% of shoppers strongly dislike queuing, 31% of shoppers dislike it, 21% \u201cmind a little\u201d and only 13% do not mind. Even more interesting is that 80% of the shoppers polled indicated that they are likely to avoid shopping during busy times, and the study gives evidence that they actually do so. Another study showed the impatience even of those usually thought to be \u201cqueue-tolerant\u201d: 68% of the customers regularly abandon shopping if they have to wait too long. The upper waiting time limit of two-fifths of the surveyed participants is set to only two minutes. In comparison, the average waiting time in most countries is above two minutes. Remarkable also is the effect of spotting long queues by customers who enter a supermarket. In the above-mentioned study, 51% refuse to even enter the store if they spy a queue.","Related technologies and applications can be found in the domains of (i) checkout mechanisms, (ii) mobile transactions and (iii) recommender systems.","Checkout mechanisms: Methods related to the \u201ccheckout-experience\u201d have received much attention in the past, but only few of them exploit the possibilities of mobile devices. In U.S. retail chains like Wal-Mart\u00ae, there are so-called \u201cself check-out\u201d counters. Here, the customer has to scan each item manually and pay at the terminal and therefore contribute individually to the system's efficiency. Other approaches aim at improving the payment efficiency. After a high enough adoption rate of near-field communication (NFC), mobile payment and the mobile wallet approaches are generally thought to be the future way. Another approach to improve checkout is fully automatic checkout, where the items are put in a smart basket, where they are recognized, for example, using radio frequency ID (RFID) technology. Connected with a mobile payment system, queuing would almost be completely avoided. Other approaches aim at converting physical to virtual queues, where customers take a ticket and wait until their number is displayed on a screen. For example this approach is deployed in the Swiss Post offices. An application for virtual queuing in recreational parks is Disney FASTPASS\u2122, which envisions to enable mobile devices to make reservations for attractions in advance.","Mobile transactions: Traditional platforms for transactions between internet users include eBay\u2122 or Craigslist\u2122, which are also accessible with smart phones. Zaarly\u2122 is a location-aware mobile market place, where anyone can publish a request for some good or service, which includes a money bid and location requirements. Although only existing as an idea so far, it is believed by some to be the future of mobile markets, or even the next big thing in mobile commerce. Although a very new area, it is apparent that mobile transactions will be a hot topic in the future.","Recommending\/targeting systems: Systems that help assist customers while shopping have been researched extensively, where most solutions are store-independent. Systems like ShopSavvy\u2122, RedLaser\u2122 and Barcoo\u2122 let the user scan an item, and display price comparisons and ratings. Depending on the rating or review, a product may be recommended explicitly. Other systems aim at implicitly recommend items based on the user's profile or previous behavior. Collaborative systems like GroupLens\u2122, PHOAKS\u2122 and Video Recommender\u2122 find users with similar tastes and recommend what they liked in the past. A prominent example is the product recommendation provided by Amazon\u00ae. Content based systems identify items similar to those preferred in the past. They are especially suited for textual information like news. GS1\u2122 envisions product recommendations and targeting to be integrated in an integrated retail solution.","In accordance with embodiments a checkout processing system in a retail establishment includes transmitting a checkout request message from a customer to initiate checkout processing. In embodiments, the customer's mobile device may transmit the checkout request message to a queue manager. A queuing message is received, having information indicative of the customer's assigned position in a checkout queue. A queue transaction may be conducted between the customer and one or more transactors. The queue transaction may include an offer that specifies a new position in the checkout queue. The queue transaction may be conclude with the customer swapping queue positions with someone who accepted the offer.","The queue transaction may be initiated by the customer. In embodiments, the queue transaction may be initiated by the retailer.","In embodiments, the customer may receive an offer from another customer. The customer may accept the offer. The queue transaction may then conclude with the two customers swapping their respective queue positions.","While the customer is in the checkout queue, their mobile device may receive advertisements or other information relating to purchase opportunities of goods in the retail establishment.","In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous examples and specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be evident, however, to one skilled in the art that the present invention as defined by the claims may include some or all of the features in these examples alone or in combination with other features described below, and may further include modifications and equivalents of the features and concepts described herein.","Referring to , a representation of a virtual checkout queuing system  in accordance with principles of the present invention includes a retail establishment . The retail establishment  may be any place where retail activity can be conducted. Customers  may come and go to browse or shop at the retail establishment . A queuing system  can track the presence and location of customers . For example, customers  may handed a card that bears an RFID tag when they enter the premises of the retail establishment . RFID monitors  may be placed at an entrance of the and throughout the premises to detect and track customers' locations. The queuing system  may manage one or more virtual checkout queues  in order to manage and direct customers  to one or more checkout counters (checkout stations, etc.) , including manned cash registers, self checkout stations, and so on. In embodiments, queue management activities performed by the queuing system  include managing a database of all customers who are in the retail establishment  and may involve communicating with the customers' mobile devices  to conduct targeted marketing activities.","Referring to  with reference to , a checkout process and communication flow in accordance with principles of the present invention is illustrated. Thus, at a step  a customer  enters the retail establishment . In embodiments, the presence of the customer  may be registered with the retailer's queue management system  in order to conduct queue management with the customer. Registration may be performed explicitly. For example, the customer  may be required to register with the queue management system  upon entering the retail establishment . The customer  may present a barcode or some other identifier displayed on their mobile device  to a scanner device installed on the premises of the retail establishment , and so on. Registration may be indirect; for example, the customer  may have a membership card on their possession bearing an RFID device that can be detected as they enter the retail establishment , and so on.","At a step , the customer  will conduct shopping activity, and at some time will be ready to conclude their shopping. When the customer  has finished their shopping, they may access a suitable application on their mobile device  to initiate checkout processing, step , in accordance with the present invention.  shows an example of a mobile device  on which a checkout mobile application  has been launched. The checkout mobile application , for example, may be provided by the retailer to cooperate with its queue management system .  illustrates a checkout button  displayed by the checkout mobile application  on a display of the mobile device . The customer  may press the checkout button  to send a checkout request message to the queue management system .","At a step  the queue management system  receives the customer's checkout request message and assigns the customer  a queue position in the checkout queue. The mobile device  may receive a virtual checkout ticket from the queue management system . The checkout ticket identifies the customer and their virtual position in a virtual checkout queue.  shows a display  of the queue position displayed on the mobile device , and may include a display  of an estimated wait time. The waiting time may be an approximate value, which may be computed by taking an empirical average dispatch time per customer, for example. A cancel button  may be displayed so that the customer  can cancel the checkout ticket if they decide to continue shopping rather than checking out.","The queue management system  operates in the background and attends to the queue management activities, including moving customers along in the checkout queue. Consider the sequence diagram in  for a moment. In some embodiments, customers who have pressed the checkout button  on their mobile devices  are put into a single first in, first out (FIFO) queue , which is a data structure stored in a memory of a computer. Customers in the checkout queue  advance to the head of the queue as a customer is dispatched to a checkout counter to be processed. Thus, at time T, the checkout queue  has two customers A and B. At time T, customer X is placed in the checkout queue . At time T, customer A is dispatched from the checkout queue . Accordingly, remaining customers B and X advance in their position in the checkout queue . It may be desirable to ensure that a checkout counter  is never idle. Accordingly, in some embodiments the queue management system  may dispatch more than one customer at the same time to a given checkout counter .","In some embodiments, an in-store locating system may be installed on the premises of the retail establishment . For example, as illustrated in , a system of RFID readers  may be placed throughout the premises. Accordingly, location information for a customer  may be included in the checkout request message that is sent to the queue management system  at step . The location information may be used to compute or otherwise determine about how long a customer  will need to get from their current location to a checkout counter , and may then assign the customer to a position in the checkout queue accordingly. For example, suppose a customer  is x minutes from the nearest checkout counter  when they send a checkout request to the queue management system . That customer  may be given a position (slot) in the checkout queue that is estimated to require a minimum of x minutes to advance to the head of the queue.","In some embodiments, the number of checkout counters  that are open may vary depending on how many customers are in the checkout queue, and how quickly the queue is emptying. The queue management system  may automatically open additional checkout counters or close out checkout counters depending on the loading on the checkout queue. Alternatively, a manager of the retail establishment may be informed of the queue loading (e.g., the queue management system  may notify the manager) and make a decision whether adjustment of the number of open checkout counters is needed.","Continuing with , at a step , when the customer  has pressed the checkout button , the queue management system  may target the customer with occasional ads or recommendations of goods that are usually purchased as impulse purchases, and may include other goods that may be of interest to the customer as the customer continues to browse or shop (step ) while waiting their turn at a checkout counter.","The virtual queuing method of the present invention is an elegant way to determine when an individual customer is ready to checkout. Purchases that are made after the customer is ready to check out are referred to in the marketing business as impulse purchases (impulse buying, etc.). Such goods are usually located near the checkout counter. However, in accordance with principles of the present invention, the marketing of impulse purchases is no longer restricted to physical proximity to the checkout counter. Instead, the queue management system  can send messages to the customer's mobile device informing them of various purchasing opportunities, thus giving more flexibility to the retailer on how and where to place goods. To amplify the recommendation effect to customers, the queue management system  may also push coupons to the mobile device  that aim at incentive purchases. It will be appreciated that the terms \u201cpush\u201d, \u201cpushed\u201d, and so on refer to \u201cpush technology\u201d where a server initiates the communication of data to clients (in this case mobile devices) absent any request from the client for the data.","In accordance with principles of the present invention, the customer may request a queue transaction (step ) while waiting their turn at a checkout counter. Some customers may be in hurry to be \u201cin and out\u201d of a retail establishment, while other customers may have more time on their hands. In accordance with the present invention, \u201cqueue transactions\u201d provide customers with options to address such situations. Queue transactions may be executed between the time a customer presses the checkout button  on their mobile device  and the time when they notified to proceed to the checkout. The queue management system  mediates (step ) the requested queue transaction. A queue transaction allows a customer to alter their position in the checkout queue (whether toward or away from the head of the queue) in exchange for some form of \u201ccurrency\u201d. In embodiments, there are \u201cexplicit transactions\u201d which involve two parties: the customer and a transactor with whom the customer conducts the queue transaction. An \u201cimplicit transaction\u201d is one where customers may be automatically prioritized in the queue depending on their status with the retailer. As a result of a queue transaction, the queue management system  may re-assign (step ) the customer's position in the checkout queue.","Queue Transactions: Explicit Transactions","In an embodiment, the \u201ctransactor\u201d with whom the customer negotiates in a queue transaction may be one or more customers who are also in the checkout queue. The queue transaction mechanism is fair, since customers who do not participate in the transaction keep their position in the checkout queue. Only transactors who were involved in the queue transaction may have their positions in the checkout queue re-assigned. Referring to , for example, suppose customer C and customer C in the checkout queue  negotiated to swap positions. If negotiations were successful, the checkout queue \u2032 would reflect that customer C and customer C swapped their respective positions in the checkout queue, while the positions of the other customers remain unaffected.","In embodiments, the \u201ccurrency\u201d that may be used in a queue transaction may include: (i) real money; or (ii) loyalty points. In the example shown in , customers C and C negotiate on swapping their positions in the checkout queue . Suppose customer C is at the head of the queue. In accordance with principles of the present invention, customer C may offer to pay a certain amount of currency to customer C in order to swap positions with C. If customer C accepts, then their respective positions in the checkout queue are re-assigned as shown in . Since the queue management system  mediates the queue transaction, the exchange of currency, whether real money or loyalty points, may be reconciled at the checkout counter by the queue management system. For example, if real money (e.g., 1 Franc) was offered by customer C and accepted by customer C, then C's bill at the checkout counter would include the cost of the goods purchased by C plus 1 Franc (Fr). Conversely, C's bill at the checkout counter would be the cost of the goods purchased by C minus 1 Fr. A similar exchange may be performed if the \u201ccurrency\u201d that was exchanged was loyalty points.","For example, a customer might be in a hurry to catch a train but still want to buy some items from the supermarket. By entering a store with a queue virtualization system in accordance with the present invention, the customer would be able to use the whole time inside the store for shopping, without wasting time for standing in a line. Furthermore, the customer may decide to spend an additional amount of money or loyalty points to conduct a queue transaction in an attempt to get a checkout ticket almost immediately.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3D","b":["124","352","354","106"]},"In embodiments, the transactor with whom the customer conducts a transaction may be the retailer rather than other customers. The customer may offer to be re-assigned to a position at the end of the checkout queue in exchange for some form of consideration, whether real money, loyalty points, goods, coupons, and so on. The retailer may accept such an offer in order to move other customers along in the checkout queue. In embodiments, the retailer may initiate a queue transaction rather than a customer, offering a suitable form of consideration to the customer or customers.","In embodiments, a queue transaction may be conducted to bid for opening another checkout counter.","Queue Transactions: Implicit Transactions","In embodiments, if a customer  is identified as a \u201cpreferred\u201d customer (e.g., they are frequent customers, they spend a lot of money, etc.), that customer may be placed on a special VIP checkout queue. The queue management system  may define and manage two (or more) separate checkout queues: one for the \u201ceconomy shoppers\u201d and one for \u201cfrequent shoppers\u201d. Each checkout queue may be associated with different sets of checkout counters. For example, an \u201ceconomy shoppers\u201d checkout queue may be associated with, say, three \u201ceconomy\u201d checkout counters. The queue management system  may always dispatch customers from the economy shoppers checkout queue such that there are always two customers at each economy checkout counter in order to ensure that those checkout counters are always busy. However, customers in a \u201cfrequent shoppers\u201d checkout queue may be associated with, say, three \u201cVIP\u201d checkout counters. The queue management system  may dispatch customers from the frequent shoppers checkout queue such that there is only one customer at each VIP checkout counter in order to ensure that a customer  who is dispatched from the frequent shoppers checkout queue will immediately attention when they arrive at the checkout counter.","Completing the discussion of , the customer  is notified (step ) when it is time for them to proceed to a checkout counter. In an embodiment, the queue management system  may send a notification message to the customer's mobile device , informing the customer  to proceed to the specified checkout counter. Referring to , the mobile device  may display a suitable message  that informs the customer which checkout counter to proceed to. The queue management system  may also include a user code  or some similar information to identify the customer  at the checkout counter. For example, in an embodiment the user code  may be the same code that was used to identify the customer  when they first entered the retail establishment . The customer  may then proceed to the designated checkout counter (step ) and conclude their shopping visit (step ).","Referring to , in embodiments, the queue management system  and mobile device  may comprise conventional computing architectures programmed and otherwise configured to operate in accordance with the principles of the present invention.  show a computer system  including a data processing subsystem  which may comprise one or more data processing units. For example, the data processing subsystem  may be a central processing unit (CPU), an application specific IC (ASIC, in the case of a mobile device ), or any other suitable data processing architecture. A memory subsystem  may comprise random access memory (usually volatile memory such as DRAM) and non-volatile memory such as FLASH memory, ROM, and so on. A storage subsystem  may comprise one or more mass storage devices such as hard disk drives and the like. The storage subsystem  may include remote storage systems; e.g., for data mirroring, remote backup and such. A communication interface  may provide communications over a suitable communication channel , for example, the Internet, Wi-Fi\u2122, and so on. A system of buses  can interconnect the foregoing subsystems, providing control lines, data lines, and\/or voltage supply lines to\/from the various subsystems.","The computer system  may include a suitable display  and\/or various I\/O devices . For example, in the mobile device , the I\/O devices  may include a numeric keypad, a physical keyboard, and the like.","Referring to , in the case of the queue management system , the display  and I\/O devices  may include conventional computer monitors and keyboard\/mouse input devices. A database or other data store  may be used by the queue management system  to store queuing information, customer information, advertisements, couponing information, and so on. The data store  may be connected to the computer system  via a local area network, or the like. The memory subsystem  and or the storage subsystem  may store computer executable programs which can program the data processing subsystem  to cause it to operate in accordance with aspects of the present invention. For example, the queue management system  can be programmed to perform step - as disclosed herein.","Referring to , in the case of the mobile device , the I\/O devices  may include an RFID tag that interacts with RFID readers  set up in the retail establishment . Mobile devices include smart phones, personal data assistants (PDAs), computer tablets, and the like. it will be appreciated, of course, that mobile devices may include other portable computing devices that a customer might take with them for shopping. The memory subsystem  and or the storage subsystem  may store computer executable programs which can program the data processing subsystem  to cause it to operate in accordance with aspects of the present invention. For example, the mobile device  can be programmed to perform steps - and provide various display as discussed herein.","Referring to  and , an embodiment of a backend system that supports the virtual checkout queuing system in accordance with principles of the present invention includes publicly accessible components designated in the figure as a wide area network (WAN)  and retail-internal components designated in the figure as a local area network (LAN) . The WAN side  represents the side of the backend system that is accessible by the public, namely customers and in particular customer's mobile devices . The LAN side  represents retail information such as inventory and prices, configuration of the RFID readers , customer information, real time data such as customer locations, their positions in the checkout queues, and so on.","In embodiments, the interface between the LAN side  and the WAN side  may be representational state transfer (REST) style interface (referred to a REST-ful interface)  that is provided on an HTTP web server ; for example, the Apache Tomcat web server. The web server  may be accessible by an device that supports the HTTP protocol. In embodiments, the following functions may be provided:\n\n","On the LAN side , various internal processes are implemented. As will be explained below, a queuing engine  () and a queue transaction engine  are provided. These are stateful process objects. The queuing engine  provides a Java\u00ae Remote Method Invocation (RMI) interface , over which the queue data structures can be accessed. Other functionalities include management of the queue transactions (queue transaction engine ) and the pushing of the advertisements (queue advertising engine ). The stateful data structures may be persisted in a database . A management dashboard  may be written with the Google Web Toolkit (GWT) to provide a manager of the retail establishment  with access to the stateful queue object for monitoring purposes.","Referring now to , a description of some details of the queue management system  in accordance with aspects of the present invention will be given. The mobile device  can communicate with the queue management system  in any of numerous ways. For example, Wi-Fi\u2122 communications may be used. The queue management system  may communicate with the mobile device using text messaging, push technology, and so on, in addition to Wi-Fi\u2122. As explained above, the queue management system  may monitor the customer , by way of their mobile device , as they shop. The queue management system  dispatches customers  to one or more checkout counters  in accordance with principles of the present invention.","In embodiments, the queue management system  includes various software components. A queuing engine  manages the virtual checkout queue(s). A queue transaction engine  provides services to customers to change their positions in the checkout queue. A queue advertising engine  provides services for fine-grained targeted advertising, recommendation notices, couponing, and so on. A store front-end user interface (UI)  provides access (e.g., display) of the real-time data circulating in the queuing system. For example, the flow of customers in the checkout queue can be monitored, including customers swapping slot positions in the queue. Activity relating to queue transactions may be displayed. The store front-end  may provide mechanisms (e.g., via a graphical user interface, GUI) to allow a manager of the retail establishment  to initiate or otherwise moderate queue transactions and customers' positions in the checkout queue, and other similar functions.","Queuing Engine","The queuing engine  includes conventional queuing functionality. For example, conventional queuing may involve a customer using their mobile device to place themselves in a virtual queue by texting a message. In embodiments, a customer may be similarly queued up in a checkout queue by pressing the checkout button (, ) on their mobile device . Some time later, the customer gets a notification, e.g., via SMS messaging, to proceed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","502","600","602","612","102","612"],"sub":"tot "},"In embodiments, a customer entering the checkout queue is enqueued to the main checkout queue . For example, the queues ,  may be implemented using suitable data structures in a computer memory. Enqueuing a customer may be performed by storing an identifier of the customer into the data structure. When a customer at the head of the main checkout queue is dispatched to a checkout counter, the customer may be dequeued from the main checkout queue and enqueued to one of the checkout counter queues . A notification is then communicated the customer's mobile device, informing the customer to proceed to the corresponding checkout counter .","Referring now to , in embodiments, a second main queue may be provided. For example, the second main queue may be for \u201cpriority\u201d users. Accordingly, as illustrated in , in an embodiment, the queuing engine  may maintain a queuing mechanism  comprising a first main queue called an \u201ceconomy\u201d main queue  and a second main queue called a \u201cpriority\u201d main queue . The n open checkout counters may be apportioned to economy customers and priority customers. Accordingly, the economy main queue  will be associated with checkout counter queues , and similarly the priority main queue  will be associated with checkout counter queues . The queue depths m, m\u2032 may or may not be the same. For example, in an embodiment, m=2, and m\u2032=1.","The queuing engine  may automatically open and close checkout counters depending on the average waiting time per customer. The capacity of the main queue  may be used to establish a threshold (e.g., 0.8t) to open a new checkout. If the number of customers in the main queue  reaches or exceeds the threshold, and if a new checkout counter is available (i.e., n<n), then the queuing engine  may notify an employee to open a checkout counter. In contrast, if the number of customers in the main queue  falls below a second, minimum threshold (e.g., 0.6t), the queuing engine  may signal that a checkout counter should be closed. In embodiments, the queuing engine  may separately manage opening and closing of \u201ceconomy\u201d checkout counters and \u201cpriority\u201d checkout counters.","Queue Transaction Engine","In accordance with aspects of the present invention, the queuing system is dynamic in that customers who are enqueued may negotiate with each other for a new position (or slot) in the checkout queue. The queue transaction engine  manages several mechanisms in which a customer can get priority in the checkout queue by negotiating a higher position in the queue. The queue transaction engine  may also be used by the customer to negotiate a lower position the queue. Accordingly, an interactive asynchronous mechanism may be provided to allow a customer who desires higher priority in the checkout queue to place an offer. Other customers in the checkout queue may receive the offer and accept it. Following is a more detailed description of this aspect of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"sub":["i ","i ","i","i","i","i","i ","i","i","i","i ","i ","i","i"],"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["O","t",",t",",m"],"sup":["max","max "]},"As an entry point,  indicates that no offer has been made. After the offer Ois made () by customer c, the offer may be pushed () to customers in the checkout queue who \u201cmatch\u201d the offer. To determine a \u201cmatching\u201d customer, consider an arbitrary customer cand the offer O=(t, t, m). In an embodiment, the offer Omay be deemed to \u201cmatch\u201d customer cif and only if\n\n,\n\nwhere\n\ntis customer c's current wait time in the checkout queue.\n","The offer Oremains valid until it is canceled (). The customer cmay explicitly cancel the offer O. Alternatively, the offer Omay be canceled as a result of \u201cexpiration\u201d of the offer. In embodiments, the offer Omay be deemed to have expired when,\n\n+\u03b5,\u03b5\u22670,\n\nwhere\n\n\u03b5 is a configurable parameter that is used to specify a margin to the expiration time of an offer.\n","If an offer Ois accepted () by a customer, the customer cwill receive a confirmation request (). For example, the mobile device of a customer who receives an offer may be presented with an \u201caccept\u201d button. Pressing the accept button can send a suitable message to the queue transaction engine  indicating an acceptance of the offer. The queue transaction engine , in response, may send or push a message to the offeror indicating an acceptance of the offer","In embodiments, the customer cmay be required to confirm () the acceptance of the offer or deny () the acceptance of the offer. If the acceptance of the offer is confirmed, then the queue positions of the customer cis swapped with the queue position of the customer who accepted the offer. The queue transaction engine  may send an update message to customers who had received the offer in order cancel the offer, or otherwise remove it, thus terminating the life cycle of the offer O. If the customer cdenies the acceptance of the offer, then the offer Owill persist and remain available for a customer to accept it, until the offer is explicitly canceled or expires.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"sub":["i ","j ","i","i"]},"As a starting point (), an offer is not being displayed on the mobile device of the customer c. If an offer Ohas been made that matches the customer c(e.g., the condition t\u2266tis satisfied for c), then a message may be sent (e.g., SMS text, pushed, etc.) to customer c's mobile device, informing customer cof receipt () of the offer O. The offer Omay be displayed () on customer c's mobile device. For example, suppose in the offer O, tis \u201c5 minutes\u201d and mis \u201c1 Franc\u201d, a corresponding offer message may be presented on customer c's mobile device in the form of an inquiry such as \u201cDo you want to receive 1 Franc and wait 5 minutes?\u201d The offer message may expire () for customer cif t>t, after which time the offer Owill no longer be displayed on customer c's mobile device.","If customer caccepts the offer (), then they have to wait until the customer who made the offer confirms the acceptance (). After confirmation is received, then the queue transaction engine  will swap slots () as discussed above. If the acceptance is not confirmed (denied, ), then the offer message will be deleted from customer c's mobile device.","When a transaction has concluded with a swapping of queue positions, the offered \u201ccurrency\u201d must be settled between the customer c(offeror) and customer c(offeree). Suppose cand cnegotiated on swapping their respective queue positions for an amount m. Accordingly, cmust \u201cpay\u201d c. In an embodiment, an indirect billing mechanism may be employed to effect payment between cand c. When capproaches the physical checkout counter, the amount m, is added to c's bill Likewise, when capproached the physical checkout counter, the amount mis deducted from c's bill. In this way, the entire queue transaction remains virtual; no direct interaction between cand cneed occur, not even for the currency exchange.","The foregoing describes the queue transaction engine  mediating queue transactions between customers. In accordance with the present invention, the queue transaction engine  may mediate queue transactions between a customer and the retailer. Implicit queue transactions may be defined where no action by the customer is required to gain priority in the checkout queue. In embodiments, the customer's state may trigger the queue transaction engine  to move the customer toward the head of the checkout queue. If a priority checkout counter is open, then the customer may be moved to a \u201cpriority\u201d checkout queue. State information may comprise any data that may be collected about the customer's shopping habits. For example, state information may include how often the customer shops at the retail establishment , how much the customer typically spends, whether the customer tends to purchase high profit margin items, and so on. The state information may include information about the customer other than their shopping habits; e.g., who they are, their profession, and so on.","In embodiments, the queue transaction engine  may mediate explicit transactions between the customer and the retailer. For example, the customer may initiate a queue transaction to negotiate an improvement of their position in the checkout queue. The customer may be in possession of a \u201cqueue upgrade\u201d coupon that the retailer had previously distributed as a marketing tool that can be used to move up in the checkout queue. In embodiments, either the customer or the retailer may offer a queue transaction to be moved to a lower position in the checkout queue. For example, the customer may be given loyalty points or actual money as an incentive to be pushed toward the end of the checkout queue, thus moving other customers toward the head of the queue that much faster. The retailer may employ this strategy when the checkout counters are heavily loaded (for example, during peak hours).","Queue Advertising Engine","After a customer is ready to check out, the task of the queue advertising engine  is to push coupons or targeted ads to them. Those pushed offers are intended to trigger impulsive purchases of complementary products. In embodiments, the queue advertising engine  may comprise component is illustrated in . A couponing component  and a targeted advertising component  may push offers to the customer's mobile device. A recommender system  may feed couponing or advertising information to the couponing component  and the targeted advertising component . The recommender system  may perform product filtering based on the profile information for the customer.","While conventional retailers locate their \u201cimpulse purchase\u201d items near the checkout counter, retailers incorporating an embodiment of the present invention on their premises can place such goods anywhere and thus enjoy greater flexibility in the use of their space. Accordingly, location information  of the customer feeds into the recommender system . As indicated in , a source of location information  may be the RFID readers  located throughout the premises of the retail establishment . Customers may have on their person a membership card that bears an RFID chip. Customers may be handed a tracking device upon entering the premises. In an embodiment, a GPS component in the customer's mobile device may provide location information to a mobile app that feeds the location information to the recommender system . The recommender system  may feed couponing and\/or advertising data to the couponing component  and the targeted advertising component  based on the location information  in conjunction with knowledge about the location of goods in the retail establishment .","Store Front-End User Interface",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1102","102","1102","1102","1102","1102"]},"Mobile Application User Interface",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIGS. 12-17","b":["124","302","124"]},"The screen shots shown in  illustrate a checkout sequence.  shows a home screen that the mobile application  may display. Various buttons may be presented; for example, a Check-in button allows the customer to register themselves with the retailer's virtual checkout queuing system.  shows the Check-out button has been pressed, displayed in a darker shade of color than the other buttons. Pressing the Check-out button initiates processing explained above. In response, the mobile application  will change the display to show the assigned queue position.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["106","124"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},"Referring back to , in embodiments, a button to initiate a queue transaction may be displayed. In the figure, a \u201cToo slow\u201d button informs the customer that they may trade their slot. When the \u201cToo slow\u201d button is pressed, the display may be updated to show a queue transaction screen, such as illustrated by the screen shot in . As can be seen, a customer identified as \u201ccustomer \u201d is prompted to enter the parameters of the offer of the queue transaction; e.g., a maximum wait time and a bid amount. In the example shown in , the customer has specified that they are wanting to wait at most 6 minutes and are willing to pay 100 units of currency as the bid amount. Radio buttons may be provided to allow the customer to designate the unit of currency. In an embodiment, this may be \u201ccents\u201d or \u201cloyalty points.\u201d The customer may submit the queue transaction offer by pressing the OK button.","The offer may be pushed to one or more matching customers, as explained above.  shows a screen shot of a display that a matching customer \u201ccustomer \u201d may show on their mobile device. As  shows, customer , who has a wait time of only two minutes, is presented with an offer to receive 100 loyalty points in exchange for waiting 16 minutes. A Trade button is displayed on customer 's display.","In an embodiment, the computation of the amount of time offered to customer  may proceed as follows. Customer 's current wait time is 20 minutes; however, customer  wishes to eliminate 14 minutes from that wait so that their wait time is at most 6 minutes. Thus, customer  needs to get rid of 14 minutes. Therefore, the offer made to customer  is to increase their wait time by 14 minutes. Accordingly, the offer made to customer  is for a new wait time of 16 minutes (14 from customer  plus the current amount of 2).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 17","FIGS. 8 and 9"],"b":["2","2","1","2"]},"The above description illustrates various embodiments of the present invention along with examples of how aspects of the present invention may be implemented. The above examples and embodiments should not be deemed to be the only embodiments, and are presented to illustrate the flexibility and advantages of the present invention as defined by the following claims. Based on the above disclosure and the following claims, other arrangements, embodiments, implementations and equivalents will be evident to those skilled in the art and may be employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 6 and 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 8 and 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 12-17"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
