---
title: Systems and methods for calculating a uniqueness rating for a vehicle
abstract: Systems and methods for calculating a uniqueness rating for a vehicle may include a user preference module to receive user preference data for calculating a uniqueness rating of a vehicle, the user preference data comprising a social media preference that indicates a number of levels to traverse of a user's social graph; a retrieval module to retrieve vehicle characteristics for a set of vehicles in the user's social graph based on the social media preference; a calculation module to calculate the uniqueness rating for the vehicle based on a comparison between characteristics of the vehicle and the vehicle characteristics in the set of vehicles; and a presentation module to present the uniqueness rating to the user based on the user preference data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09063943&OS=09063943&RS=09063943
owner: United Services Automotive Association
number: 09063943
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111123
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Example Hardware and Software Platform"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/417,129, filed on Nov. 24, 2010, the benefit of priority of which is claimed hereby, and of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","When a consumer chooses to purchase a vehicle he or she takes into account many objective and subjective factors. Objective factors may include mileage, cost, and safety while subjective factors may include styling, perceived value, and practicality. Often times consumers also ask friends and family for input on what vehicle to purchase.","Systems and methods for calculating a uniqueness rating for a vehicle are described. In an embodiment, a system comprises a user preference module configured to receive user preference data for calculating a uniqueness rating of a vehicle, the user preference data comprising a social media preference that indicates a number of levels to traverse of a user's social graph. The system further comprises a retrieval module configured to retrieve vehicle characteristics for a set of vehicles in the user's social graph based on the social media preference. The system further comprises a calculation module configured to calculate the uniqueness rating for the vehicle based on a comparison between characteristics of the vehicle and the vehicle characteristics in the set of vehicles. Also, the system comprises a presentation module configured to present the uniqueness rating to the user based on the user preference data.","In an embodiment, a system comprises a memory coupled to a processor, the memory including instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to receive user preference data for calculating a uniqueness rating of a vehicle; retrieve vehicle characteristics for a set of vehicles; calculate the uniqueness rating for the vehicle based on a comparison between characteristics of the vehicle and the vehicle characteristics of the set of vehicles; and present the uniqueness rating to the user based on the user preference data.","In an embodiment, a system comprises a memory coupled to a processor, the memory including instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to receive user preference data for calculating a uniqueness rating of a vehicle, the user preference data comprising search demographics data and search area data; retrieve vehicle characteristics for a set of vehicles, the set of vehicles having drivers with demographics identified in the search demographic data, and the set of vehicles located in a search area identified by the search area data; calculate the uniqueness rating for the vehicle based on a comparison between characteristics of the vehicle and the vehicle characteristics of the set of vehicles; and present the uniqueness rating to a user based on the user preference data","This summary is intended to provide an overview of subject matter of the present patent application. It is not intended to provide an exclusive or exhaustive explanation. The Detailed Description is included to provide further information about the present patent application.","The following detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings, which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show, by way of illustration, example embodiments. These embodiments, which are also referred to herein as \u201cexamples,\u201d are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice aspects of the inventive subject matter.","In this document, the terms \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d are used, as is common in patent documents, to include one or more than one. In this document, the term \u201cor\u201d is used to refer to a nonexclusive or, unless otherwise indicated.","As used throughout this application, the word \u201cmay\u201d is used in a permissive sense (e.g., meaning having the potential to), rather than the mandatory sense (e.g., meaning must). Similarly, the words \u201cinclude\u201d, \u201cincluding\u201d, and \u201cincludes\u201d mean including but not limited to. To facilitate understanding, like reference numerals have been used, where possible, to designate like elements common to the figures.","Vehicle purchases may be envisioned as having a lifecycle. For example, a buyer may first research potential purchases, then identify candidates, and finally arrive at a purchase decision. After purchase of the vehicle, other portions of the lifecycle develop, such as insurance, maintenance, and eventual disposal of the vehicle, such as by way of sale. Each of the phases of the lifecycle may include a wide variety of decision points and other aspects. For example, during research, various vehicle features may be considered, such as the vehicle's fuel mileage, safety ratings, cost, and reliability. During identification, vehicles may be filtered to reduce the number being considered or configured to more specifically evaluate costs. In many cases, a potential buyer may research a sector or segment of vehicles, identify a subset of candidates, and then perform further research on the subset of vehicles. This type of research and identification may continue until the point of purchase.","Individuals value a variety of criteria when researching and identifying vehicles to purchase. For example, some users consult their social networks for input regarding a potential purchase. Additionally, a user may want to know if a vehicle will fit in with his or her present or future lifestyle. Individuals consult multiple sources of information to help make a purchase decision. These sources may include, but are not limited to, social networks, vehicle sales data, and insurance data.","In an electronic medium, a \u201csocial network\u201d is a digital platform (e.g., website) that allows users to establish virtual connections with other users of the social network, and publish information to the social network. Published information may take many forms including, but not limited to, text, pictures, videos, links to websites, purchase information, reviews, and location information. Some social networks do not require a user to be connected to other users in order to publish information. A social network may also be accessible and updatable by mobile devices. For example, a user of a social network may publish information to the social network website via Short Messaging Service (SMS) or Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS).","What is needed is a system to evaluate the information available on social networks, vehicle sales data, and insurance data to determine if a vehicle is a proper fit for a user. In some instances, users may wish to blend in with a certain demographic. For example, a 40-year-old male high school teacher may want to buy a car that is similar to cars that other 40-year-old male teachers have bought or are driving. In contrast, other users may wish to purchase cars that are unique within their social networks or a specified geographic region. Thus, a uniqueness rating may be presented to the user that identifies how unique a vehicle is within a specified area, demographic, or both. The uniqueness rating may be a quantitative value (e.g., \u201c75% unique\u201d or a uniqueness score of 8, with 1 being common and 10 being unique) or a qualitative ranking (e.g., \u201cvery common\u201d or \u201cabsolutely unique\u201d).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","102","108","110","114","116","118","102","102","102","108","118","114"]},"Network  may include local-area networks (LAN), wide-area networks (WAN), wireless networks (e.g., 802.11 or cellular network), the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) network, ad hoc networks, personal area networks (e.g., Bluetooth) or other combinations or permutations of network protocols and network types. Network  may include a single local area network (LAN) or wide-area network (WAN), or combinations of LAN's or WAN's, such as the Internet. Various devices coupled to network  may be coupled to network  via one or more wired or wireless connections.","Web server  may communicate with file server  to publish or serve files stored on file server . Web server  may also communicate or interface with application server  to enable web-based presentation of information. For example, application server  may consist of scripts, applications, or library files that provide primary or auxiliary functionality to web server  (e.g., multimedia, file transfer, or dynamic interface functions). In addition, application server  may also provide some or the entire interface for web server  to communicate with one or more of the other servers in vehicle uniqueness system  (e.g., database management server ). Web server , either alone or in conjunction with one or more other computers in vehicle uniqueness system , may provide a user-interface. The user-interface may be implemented using a variety of programming languages or programming methods, such as HTML (HyperText Markup Language), VBScript (Visual Basic\u00ae Scripting Edition), JavaScript\u2122, XML\u00ae (Extensible Markup Language), XSLT\u2122 (Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations), AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML), Java\u2122, JFC (Java\u2122 Foundation Classes), and Swing (an Application Programming Interface for Java\u2122).","User terminal  may be a personal computer or mobile device. In an embodiment, user terminal  includes a client program to interface with vehicle uniqueness system . The client program may include commercial software, custom software, open source software, freeware, shareware, or other types of software packages. In an embodiment, the client program includes a thin client designed to provide query and data manipulation tools for a user of user terminal . The client program may interact with a server program hosted by, for example, application server . Additionally, the client program may interface with database management server .","Operations database  may be composed of one or more logical or physical databases. For example, operations database  may be viewed as a system of databases that when viewed as a compilation, represent an \u201coperations database.\u201d Sub-databases in such a configuration may include a vehicle database, a vehicle sales database, insurance information database, and social network database. Operations database  may be implemented as a relational database, a centralized database, a distributed database, an object oriented database, or a flat database in various embodiments.","During operation, data from multiple data sources is imported into operations database . Data sources may exist within an organization, such as an sales department or insurance department or a subsidiary corporation, or exist at an external source, such as a social network website or a public record source. The data may be imported and stored in the operations database on a scheduled basis, such as weekly, monthly, quarterly, or some other regular or periodic interval. Alternatively, the data may be imported on-demand.","Internal sources may include insurance claim information and information from business partners. For example, the provider of the vehicle evaluation system may partner with a vehicle purchasing business. Sales data may be imported from the vehicle purchasing business. Information imported or obtained may represent past vehicle sales, vehicle characteristics (e.g., model, trim, and options), and insurance information (e.g., local, state, or national average insurance coverage and costs). Also, demographics (e.g., age, gender, occupation, location) of past purchasers or insured users may be imported. External sources may include social networks. Information that is published on social networks may be stored in the social network database. For example, a user might publish that he has just bought a 2008 Ford\u00ae Taurus\u00ae.","After data importation, the data may be standardized and then stored in a common database or data mart. For example, database records from business affiliates, internal or external sources may not be in a compatible format with the common database or data mart. Data conditioning may include data rearrangement, normalization, filtering (e.g., removing duplicates), sorting, binning, or other operations to transform the data into a common format (e.g., using similar date formats, name formats, and address fields).","Once imported and standardized, the data may be considered to be in a \u201craw\u201d form. That is, the data accurately represents the source data, albeit reformatted or rearranged for the sake of compatibility and consistency. In an embodiment, the \u201craw\u201d data is stored for a relatively long period of time, such as six months or several years. This persistent raw data storage may be useful for various purposes, such as data backup and restore, data auditing, or data modeling. In an embodiment, the persistent raw data is stored using a moving window of data. For example, an administrative user may define a window size of six months. When new data is saved in the persistent raw data, data older than the window size may be expunged from the persistent raw data storage. In an embodiment, multiple window sizes are used and each window size may be associated with a particular data. For example, insurance data may be stored using a window size of five years, while sales data may be stored using a window size of two years. The retention period may be configurable by a user of vehicle uniqueness system , or adjusted automatically by vehicle uniqueness system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["102","200","202","204","206"]},"User preference module  receives user preference data for calculating a uniqueness rating of a vehicle. In an embodiment, a webpage is transmitted to a user terminal over a network (e.g., user terminal ). The webpage includes graphical user interface elements (e.g., checkboxes, text boxes, combo boxes, radio buttons, and drop-down menus) that are displayed on a display device of the user terminal. A user may interact with the graphical user interface elements to indicate his or her preferences for calculating the uniqueness score. The display may be non-touch, a capacitive touchscreen, or a resistive touchscreen. The display may also be used as an input interface when the display is a touchscreen. Other input interfaces include a keyboard, a stylus, gesture control, or voice control. Interaction with the graphical user interface (e.g., a user selecting a checkbox) are encapsulated in one or more data packets as user preference data and transmitted back to one or more servers of vehicle uniqueness system . In an example embodiment, the graphical user interface is part of a computer program stored locally on the user terminal. In another example embodiment, the graphical user interface is part of an internet based application hosted on, or interacting with, a social network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["200","300","302","304","300","302","304"]},"Retrieval preferences  include the type of vehicle preference  being researched, search demographics , and search area preference . Type of vehicle  may include characteristics of the vehicle including the make, model, trim, year, color, and options (e.g., navigation system, sports package). In various embodiments, a user may be presented with multiple drop-down menus that are populated with year, make, model, and trim of various vehicles. When a user has selected a year, make, model, and trim, multiple checkboxes may be displayed that identify options available for the selected vehicle. In an embodiment, the checkboxes are checked according to the most popular options for the selected vehicle. If the user has already purchased a car, and the vehicle uniqueness system has access to the vehicle characteristics, the vehicle uniqueness system may automatically fill in the corresponding graphical user interface elements.","The vehicle uniqueness system uses the search demographics  and search area  preferences to control the search domain. Users of the system may enter search demographics, search area, or both.","In an embodiment, search demographics  include categories of gender, race, age, income, disability, occupation, educational level, employment status, and geographic location. A user is presented with one or more demographic categories on his or her user terminal. In an embodiment, the demographic preferences are presented in a series of ranges. For example, age may be presented as a drop-down menu with ranges of \u201c16-25,\u201d \u201c26-34,\u201d \u201c35-45,\u201d \u201c46-55,\u201d \u201c56-64,\u201d and \u201c65 and older.\u201d A user does not need to fill in all of the demographic information presented.","In an embodiment, the search demographic categories are used as part of the basis for the uniqueness rating. For example, if a user enters age and occupation data, vehicle characteristics will be retrieved for drivers with the age and occupation entered. If the user has already purchased a car, and the vehicle uniqueness system  has access to the vehicle characteristics, the vehicle uniqueness system may automatically fill in the search demographics  graphical user interface with the demographics of the user. In an embodiment, the search demographics  do not need to correlate with the demographics of the user.","In an embodiment, search area preference  includes two sub-preferences: (1) geographic location; and (2) social network. Generally, a user will only enter information in one of the two sub-preferences. If a user enters information in both, two uniqueness ratings may be calculated and presented to the user. The geographic location preference may include differing levels of granularity. For example, the geographic location may include options to search within a zip code, city, metropolitan area, county, state, or country.","In an embodiment, the social network preferences allows users to identify one or more social networks that are to be used as the search area when calculating the uniqueness rating. Social networks take many forms, but generally they are defined by the ability for one individual to make a connection with another individual. For example, in a social network focused on reviews, a first user may be able to only view reviews made by a second user when the first user \u201cfollows\u201d the second user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","404","406","408","410","412","414","416","418","420","408","404","410","412","408","408","410","420","404","410","412","408","408","406","414","408","410","408","408","410","420"]},"Referring back to , a user may indicate a preference of how far, as defined by levels, to traverse each social network identified by the user. In an embodiment, a user may specify different levels of traversal for different social networks. Vehicle uniqueness system  may perform a check to see if login information for a social network is stored in one or more of the databases of the system . If the login information is not stored, system  may prompt the user for his or her login credentials. In various embodiments, a user may indicate a specific group of friends to search. For example, the user may belong to a car enthusiast group on the social network, and may want to limit the search to members of the car enthusiast group.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","312","312"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["304","314","316","314","316"]},"Referring back to , retrieval module  retrieves vehicle characteristics for a set of vehicles. Retrieval module  uses the user preference data to generate the set of vehicles to be analyzed and compared to the user specified vehicle. Initially, the set of vehicles is taken from a pool of vehicles that the system has determined a driver for. Then, the set of vehicles may be filtered according to the user preference data (e.g., , items , , ). As discussed, the system stores vehicle information gathered from a number of sources. While it may not always be possible to determine an actual driver of a vehicle, insurance data, purchase data, and social network data provide a presumption that the named insured, purchaser, or user of a social network is the driver. In an embodiment, when a vehicle is determined to have two different drivers, the system uses the most recent driver data available. In an example embodiment, the user preference data may indicate the vehicle being researched is a 2006 Honda\u00ae Civic\u00ae. In this example, the user preference data does not indicate a trim level or any other options. Therefore, the vehicle uniqueness system  does not retrieve any vehicle characteristics beyond year, make, and model from the set of vehicles (e.g., the vehicle characteristics are limited according to the user preference data).","In some embodiments, the information has not been stored in the databases and is retrieved on-the-fly from one or more external sources related to vehicle purchase data. For example, if the search area includes a social network, the vehicle uniqueness system  may not have any stored information on the user's social graph. The system  may traverse one or more levels of the user's social graph and use textual analysis to determine vehicles purchased by friends in the user's social graph. In an embodiment, the vehicle uniqueness system uses an application programming interface (API) of the social network to directly retrieve information on vehicles driven or purchased by friends of the user. In an embodiment, the vehicle uniqueness system  includes an application to run on the social network that collects information on vehicles purchased by users of the social network. In an embodiment, the application collects information on vehicles reviewed, commented on, or driven by users of the social network. For example, as part of the installation process of the application, a user may be requested to enter in his or her current vehicle.","Calculation module  calculates a uniqueness rating of the vehicle identified by the user preference data. In an embodiment, the uniqueness rating is the sum of the results of a number of component calculations. Each component is a vehicle characteristic identified by the user to include in the uniqueness rating. In an embodiment, the closer the uniqueness rating is to one, the less unique the vehicle is in relation to the set of vehicles.","Each component calculation is multiplied by a coefficient according to a weight characteristic preference. In an example embodiment, a user has given a weight of two to \u201cmake,\u201d a weight of five to \u201cmodel,\u201d and a weight of three to \u201cyear.\u201d The coefficient for a component may be determined by taking the weight characteristic preference value for the component and diving it by the total of the given weight characteristic preferences. Using the example weights above,\n\nUniqueness Rating=0.2(make)+0.5(model)+0.3(year).\n\nIf the weight characteristic data is a qualitative description, numerical values may be assigned to each description (e.g., \u201cvery important\u201d may be assigned a value of five).\n","In an embodiment, a component calculation is determined according to the frequency of a vehicle characteristic in the set of vehicles. For example, if the vehicle is a Honda\u00ae Civic\u00ae vehicle the \u201cmake\u201d component calculation will determine the number of Honda\u00ae vehicles in the set of vehicles. The set of vehicles is determined according to the user preference data and may be a smaller set of vehicles than is stored in the databases of the vehicle uniqueness system. Thus, assuming the set of vehicles includes 100 vehicles and 14 Honda\u00ae vehicles, the \u201cmake\u201d component calculation is 0.14.","Presentation module  presents the uniqueness rating to the user based on the user preference data. In an example embodiment, a default presentation view (e.g., quantitative or qualitative) is used when the user does not specify a presentation preference. Presenting may take on many forms including, but not limited to, audio and visual presentations or a combination of audio and visual. As described previously, the presentation preferences include an option to receive the uniqueness rating in a quantitative or qualitative manner. If the user has selected the quantitative presentation option, a numerical value of uniqueness may be presented to the user (e.g., \u201cYour vehicle is 85\u00b0 % Unique.\u201d) In an embodiment, some of the underlying data used in the uniqueness rating calculation may be presented to the user (e.g., the frequency of a different vehicle characteristic occurring in the set of vehicles). Additional information may also be displayed related to the set of vehicles retrieved by the retrieval module. For example, the presentation module may display the most common make of car in set the of vehicles.  illustrates an example screen that may be presented to a user with the examples discussed above. In further embodiments, the presentation module may present the most common make in an auditory manner (e.g., playing an audio track announcing the most common make).","If the user has selected the qualitative presentation option, the uniqueness rating may be categorized according to a predefined set of ranges. For example, if the uniqueness rating is higher than 0.8, the vehicle may be classified as mostly unique. The presentation module also publishes data to social networks according to the social media publication preference .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","504","506","508"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","602","604","606","608"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"700"},"Computer system  includes processor  (e.g., central processing unit (CPU)), main memory  and static memory , which communicate via bus . Computer system  may further include video display unit  (e.g., liquid crystal display (LCD) or cathode ray tube (CRT)). Computer system  also includes alphanumeric input device  (e.g., keyboard), cursor control device  (e.g., mouse), disk drive unit , signal generation device  (e.g., speaker) and network interface device  to interface computer system  to network .","Disk drive unit  includes machine-readable medium  on which is stored a set of instructions or software  embodying any one, or all, of the methodologies described herein. Software  is also shown to reside, completely or at least partially, within main memory  and\/or within processor . Software  may further be transmitted or received via network interface device .","While computer system  is shown with processor , it is understood that the systems and methods described herein can be implemented on one or more processors on one or more computer systems, including but not limited to a multi-processor computer (e.g., two or more separate processors or two or more cores in a single processor), a multi-computer system (e.g., a distributed computing environment), or a mixture of single-processor and multi-processor computers in a distributed fashion.","For the purposes of this specification, the term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d or \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d shall be taken to include any tangible non-transitory medium which is capable of storing or encoding a sequence of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one of the methodologies described herein. The terms \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d or \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, and optical or magnetic disks. Further, it will be appreciated that the software could be distributed across multiple machines or storage media, which may include the machine-readable medium.","Method embodiments described herein may be computer-implemented. Some embodiments may include computer-readable media encoded with a computer program (e.g., software), which includes instructions operable to cause an electronic device to perform methods of various embodiments. A software implementation (or computer-implemented method) may include microcode, assembly language code, or a higher-level language code, which further may include computer-readable instructions for performing various methods. The code may form modules that operate as portions of computer program products. The modules may be executed on or more processors to perform the operations described herein. Further, the code may be tangibly (i.e. non-transitory) stored on one or more volatile or non-volatile computer-readable media during execution or at other times. These computer-readable media may include, but are not limited to, hard disks, removable magnetic disks, removable optical disks (e.g., compact disks and digital video disks), magnetic cassettes, memory cards or sticks, random access memories (RAM's), read only memories (ROM's), and the like.","Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term \u201cinvention\u201d merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept, if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus, although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein, any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments, and other embodiments not specifically described herein, will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. For example, one module may be implemented as multiple logical modules, or several modules may be implemented as a single logical module. As another example, separately named modules may be implemented in a single module, or in some combination of modules, as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.","In the foregoing Detailed Description, various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment.","In the appended claims, the terms \u201cincluding\u201d and \u201cin which\u201d are used as the plain-English equivalents of the respective terms \u201ccomprising\u201d and \u201cwherein.\u201d Also, in the following claims, the terms \u201cincluding\u201d and \u201ccomprising\u201d are open-ended, that is, a system, device, article, or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, like numerals may describe similar components in different views. Like numerals having different letter suffixes may represent different instances of similar components. Some embodiments are illustrated by way of example, and not limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
