---
title: Determining an availability status of a contact being called
abstract: In a method for placing a telephone call, a telephone receives a request to call a contact. The telephone retrieves a user preference for obtaining an availability status of the contact. The telephone obtains the availability status of the contact from one of a plurality of sources based at least in part on an order of priority of the sources defined by the user preference. The sources include a social network program. The telephone displays the status of the contact. The telephone prompts for a decision whether to place the call to the contact.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903363&OS=08903363&RS=08903363
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08903363
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110801
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to wireless communication and more specifically to determining an availability status of a contact being called.","Family, friends, and business contacts are often spread throughout the world, involved in various activities. Placing a telephone call to a contact is a common way of communicating with the contact. A contact may not be willing to accept a telephone call, however, depending on an activity the contact is engaged in during the time of the call. For example, a contact may be in a business meeting and may not want to be disturbed. A contact may turn off his telephone or the ringer on the telephone while in the meeting, although that may prevent callers from reaching the contact in case of an emergency. Further, a contact may not always remember to turn off the telephone or to place the phone in silent mode while in the meeting, where the sound of a ringing phone may be disruptive.","Alternatively, a caller may not wish to disturb a contact if the caller were to know the availability status of the contact. For example, a caller may not want to disturb a contact when the contact is in a business meeting. The caller may decide that the call is not important and may choose to wait until another time to call the contact. A caller may obtain an availability status of a contact from a social network, such as Facebook\u00ae and Twitter\u00ae, or a location based service (LBS), such as Google Latitude\u2122 and Foursquare\u00ae. However, this requires the caller to access the social network or LBS independently of making the telephone call, which is inconvenient for the caller. Additionally, a caller may not remember to first check an availability status of a contact before calling the contact.","In a first embodiment of the present invention, there is a method for placing a telephone call. A telephone receives a request to call a contact. The telephone retrieves a user preference for obtaining an availability status of the contact. The telephone obtains the availability status of the contact from one of a plurality of sources based at least in part on an order of priority of the sources defined by the user preference. The sources include a social network program. The telephone displays the status of the contact. The telephone prompts for a decision whether to place the call to the contact.","In a second embodiment of the present invention, there is an apparatus for placing a call. The apparatus includes one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, and one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to receive a request to call a contact. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to retrieve a user preference for obtaining an availability status of the contact. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to obtain the availability status of the contact from one of a plurality of sources based at least in part on an order of priority of the sources defined by the user preference. The sources include a social network program. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to display the availability status of the contact. The apparatus further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, to prompt for a decision whether to place the call to the contact.","In a third embodiment of the present invention, there is a computer program product for placing a telephone call. The computer program product includes one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to receive a request to call a contact. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to retrieve a user preference for obtaining an availability status of the contact. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to obtain the availability status of the contact from one of a plurality of sources based at least in part on an order of priority of the sources defined by the user preference. The sources include a social network program. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to display the availability status of the contact. The computer program product further includes program instructions, stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, to prompt for a decision whether to place the call to the contact.","The present invention will now be described with reference to the figures.  illustrates a system for determining an availability status of a contact associated with a target telephone  when placing a call from a telephone  to target telephone . Telephone  may be a wireless mobile telephone, a wired telephone, or any other device capable of making telephone calls to a contact. Similarly, target telephone  may be a wireless mobile telephone, a wired telephone, or any other device capable of receiving telephone calls.","Telephone  has a first display region  for displaying the name of the contact being called. Telephone  has a second display region  for displaying the availability status of the contact being called. For example, second display region  may display the text \u201cJohn is in a business meeting.\u201d Second display region  may also display a graphic representative of the contact's current availability status, either in the background behind the availability status or in place of the availability status. For example, second display region  may display a graphic of a two people talking to indicate to the caller that the contact is in a business meeting. As will be described, an availability status of a contact may be obtained from one of several sources. Thus, in an example embodiment, second display region  may display the source or sources of the availability status of the contact, in addition to displaying the availability status.","Telephone  has a third display region , including a graphic representative of a continue button  for enabling the caller to proceed with placing the phone call to target telephone  based on information presented to the caller in second display region . Third display region  also includes a graphic representative of a cancel button  for enabling the caller to cancel the call to target telephone  based on information presented to the caller in second display region . It should be understood that, although continue button  and cancel button  have been described as being included in display region  as graphical representations, continue button  and cancel button  may also be physical buttons on telephone , in an example embodiment.","Telephone  is in communication with a social network program , such as Facebook\u00ae or Twitter\u00ae, via a network , to retrieve a current availability status of a contact. In the embodiment illustrated in , network  is the Internet. However, one of skill in the art will appreciate that, in other embodiments, network  can be any type of network, such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), or an Intranet.","Telephone  is also in communication with a location based service provider (LBS) , such as Google Latitude\u2122 or Foursquare\u00ae, via network , to retrieve a current availability status of a contact. It should be understood that although the example embodiment illustrates telephone  in communication with two sources for retrieving a contact's availability status, telephone  may communicate with any number of sources to retrieve a contact's availability status.","A contact status program , stored on a computer  in communication with telephone  via network , is for determining an availability status of a call recipient prior to placing a call to the recipient. Contact status program  can be downloaded to telephone  from computer  via network .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["220","220","204","114","204","114","204"]},"Social network program function  retrieves a contact's availability status to help a caller decide whether to proceed with placing a call to the contact. For example, a caller may decide not to proceed with placing a call to a contact if a contact's social network availability status indicates that the contact is in a current location, such as an office building, where the caller would prefer not disturb the contact. Likewise, a caller may decide not to proceed with placing the call to the contact if the contact's social network availability status indicates that the contact is currently involved in an activity, such as a business meeting, during which the contact would not like to be disturbed.","In an example embodiment, social network program function  determines whether an availability status of a contact is relevant for the purpose of a caller determining whether the contact is available to take the call. For example, it may be relevant for a caller to know that a contact's social network availability status indicates that the contact is in a business meeting, while it may be irrelevant for the caller to know that the contact's social network availability status indicates that the contact is available for employment opportunities. Social network program function  determines whether an availability status is relevant is relevant for the purpose of a caller determining whether the contact is available to take the call. by comparing text of the availability status to a predefined set of keywords. For example, predefined keywords may include \u201cmeeting,\u201d \u201coffice,\u201d and \u201cwork.\u201d Social network program function  may determine that an availability status is relevant when the availability status contains at least one keyword. The predefined sets of keywords may be stored in and accessed from a file or a database, such as user preference database .","In an example embodiment, contact status program  displays an availability status obtained by social network program function  on telephone  only if the availability status is relevant for the purpose of a caller determining the contact is available to take the call. In another example, contact status program  displays both relevant and irrelevant availability statuses on telephone . However, contact status program  may distinguish a relevant status from an irrelevant status. For example, contact status program  may display a relevant status in a first color and an irrelevant status in a second color.","In an example embodiment, social network program function  retrieves a timestamp of a contact's social network availability status via any suitable means, such as a programming interface, and analyzes the timestamp to determine when the contact's availability status was last updated. For example, a caller may desire that contact status program  notify the caller of a contact's availability status only if the availability status has been updated on social network program  within a certain timeframe. Thus, contact status program  may display an availability status on telephone  only if the availability status has been updated within the timeframe. Alternatively, contact status program  may display an availability status on telephone  regardless of when the availability status was last updated. However, contact status program  may distinguish an availability status that has been updated within the timeframe with an availability status that has not been updated within the timeframe. For example, contact status program  may display on telephone  an availability status that has been updated within the timeframe in a first color, but may display on telephone  an availability status that has not been updated within the timeframe in a second color.","The predefined timeframe may be stored in and accessed from user preference database , for example. In one example, the timeframe may be predefined as a single constant value. In another example, the timeframe may vary depending on the availability status. For example, a business meeting may typically last only for one hour, while a business training workshop may typically last for two hours. Accordingly, an availability status including the keyword \u201cmeeting\u201d may be relevant, for the purpose of a caller determining whether the contact is available to take the call, only for one hour while an availability status including the keywords \u201ctraining workshop\u201d may be relevant, for the purpose of a caller determining whether the contact is available to take the call, for two hours. Therefore, a timeframe may be predefined to be one hour for an availability status which includes the keyword \u201cmeeting,\u201d while the timeframe may be predefined to be two hours for an availability status which includes the keywords \u201ctraining workshop.\u201d In one example, social network program function  may dynamically determine the timeframe, based on the availability status, by accessing an external data source. For example, an availability status indicating that a contact is at a movie theatre watching a particular movie is relevant to a caller while the movie is running. Thus, social network program function  may access, via network , an external data source (for example, a server computer) including running times for movies, and determine the timeframe to be the running time of the movie.","Contact status program  has a location based service (LBS) program function  for retrieving a contact's current location from LBS provider , such as Google Latitude\u2122 or Foursquare\u00ae. LBS provider  enables a contact to share a current location by updating a central server via a personal computer or a mobile telephone. For example, a contact may \u201ccheck in\u201d at a location via Foursquare\u00ae and share the location with friends or contacts. LBS program function  retrieves a contact's current location from LBS provider  via any suitable means, such as a programming interface.","The current location retrieved by LBS program function  from LBS provider  is indicative of the contact's availability status and helps a caller to determine whether or not to proceed with a call to the contact. Specifically, the caller may decide not to proceed with calling the contact after considering that the contact has checked in at a particular office for a business meeting. Furthermore, the caller may or may not choose to proceed with calling the contact, depending on the office that the contact checked in at, if the caller is familiar with the office and also familiar with the contact's typical course of business at the particular office. For example, if a contact checks in at The Office Tower and the caller knows that the contact frequently visits The Office Tower to informally collaborate with a colleague, the caller may chose to proceed with a call to the contact. However, if the caller knows that the contact typically visits The Office Tower to formally meet with an executive of a corporation, for example, the caller may decide not to bother the contact with a call while the contact is in The Office Tower.","In an example embodiment, LBS program function  may analyze a timestamp of a contact's last update to his or her location on LBS provider . For example, a caller may desire that contact status program  notify the caller of a contact's LBS location only if the location has been updated within a certain timeframe on LBS provider . Thus, contact status program  may display on telephone  a location updated via LBS  only if the location has been updated within the timeframe. Alternatively, contact status program  may display on telephone  the location regardless of when the location was last updated. However, contact status program  may distinguish a location that has been updated within the timeframe with a location that has not been updated within the timeframe. For example, contact status program  may display on telephone  a location that has been updated within the timeframe in a first color, but may display on telephone  a location that has not been updated within the timeframe in a second color. The predefined timeframe may be stored in and accessed from user preference database , for example.","Contact status program  has a user preference program function  for prioritizing the different methods of social network program function  and LBS program function  for retrieving status information about a contact. For example, a caller may know that a specific contact may not update LBS provider  each time that the specific contact changes his or her location. Thus, the caller may prefer to rely on social network function  when determining an availability status of the specific contact, but may prefer to rely on LBS program function  when determining an availability status of other contacts. Accordingly, the caller may define how telephone  determines an availability status of a contact.","User preference program function  also enables a user to define keywords to be used by social network program function  to determine whether an availability status is relevant for the purpose of a caller determining whether a contact is available to take a call. User preference program function  also enables a user to define the predefined timeframes to be used by social network program function  and LBS program function  to determine whether an availability status or a location is up-to-date.","Contact status program  has user preference database  to store a caller's preferences, obtained by user preference program function , for how to obtain a contact's availability status information. User preference database  may store one set of preferences, applicable to all contacts. User preference database  may also store preferences according to individual contacts or groups of contacts. For example, a caller may choose to give higher priority to LBS program function  for obtaining an availability status of a business contact while choosing to give a higher priority to social network program function  for obtaining an availability status of a personal contact. Thus, a caller may rank the various methods for obtaining a contact's availability status according to the caller's preference. The user may include any number of methods for obtaining a contact's availability status in the rankings. In one example, if contact status program  is unable to obtain a contact's availability status via the user's top ranked method, contact status program  uses the user's next highest ranked method. If contact status program  is unsuccessful at obtaining the contact's availability status via the user's next highest ranked method, contact status program  checks each next highest ranked method until the earlier of contact status program  obtaining the contact's availability status or contact status program  checking all of the prioritized methods. In one example, if the user does not rank any methods or if contact status program  is unable to obtain a contact's availability status, contact status program  uses a default availability status. Alternatively, in one example, contact status program  may generate a warning prior to placing a call to a contact, indicating that the contact's availability status is not known.","Contact status program  has a status selection program function  to select availability status information obtained by one of social network program function  and LBS program function , based on preferences stored in user preference database , to determine the availability status of a contact.","While in , social network program function , LBS program function , status selection program function , and user preference program function , as well as user preference database  are shown as integrated within contact status program , one of skill in the art will appreciate that, in other embodiments, all of some of social network program function , LBS program function , status selection program function , and user preference program function , as well as user preference database  are not integrated within, but communicate with, contact status program . One of skill in the art will further appreciate that, in another embodiment, social network program function , LBS program function , status selection program function , and user preference program function  are standalone computer programs on telephone .","It should be understood that although the example embodiments herein are described using business meetings and other similar activities as an example status, any type of status may be used to help a caller determine whether to proceed with placing a call to a contact.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["110","102","110","302","220","304","220","220","114","116","114","116","220","220","220","220","220","220","220","220","220","220","220","316"]},"At step , contact status program  determines whether the contact's availability status is relevant to a caller with regard to the caller determining whether the contact is available to take the call. Contact status program  determines whether the availability status is relevant by determining whether the availability status contains one or more predefined keywords. If contact status program  determines that the availability status does not contain any predefined keywords (decision , no branch), then contact status program  proceeds with directing telephone  to place the call at step . In an example embodiment, if contact status program  determines that the availability status does not contain any predefined keywords, contact status program  may notify the caller that contact status program  was not able to obtain a relevant status and then proceed to block . In another example embodiment, if contact status program  determines that the availability status does not contain any predefined keywords, contact status program  may access one or more next-highest ranked sources until the earlier of contact status program  obtaining a relevant availability status or checking all sources without obtaining a relevant availability status.","If contact status program  determines that the availability status does contain at least one predefined keyword (decision , yes branch), then contact status program  retrieves a timestamp of the availability status from social network program , from LBS provider , or form other similar sources, via any suitable means, such as a programming interface, and analyzes the timestamp to determine whether the availability status has been updated within a determined time period, at step . If contact status program  determines that the availability status has not been updated within a determined time period (decision , no branch), then contact status program  proceeds with directing telephone  to place the call at step . In an example embodiment, contact status program  may notify the caller that contact status program  was not able to obtain a recent availability status and may prompt the caller for a decision whether to proceed with the call. In one example, contact status program  may attempt to obtain a more recent availability status from one or more next-highest ranked sources before prompting the caller for a decision.","If contact status program  determines that the availability status has been updated within a determined time period (decision , yes branch), then contact status program  displays the availability status on telephone  at step . At step , contact status program  prompts a caller for a decision whether to continue to place the call to the contact. The prompt includes an option to cancel the call if the caller should decide not to call the contact, based on the displayed status of the contact.","At step , contact status program  receives a decision in response to the prompt given at step . A caller makes a decision by pressing either continue button  or cancel button .","If contact status program  receives a decision from a caller to proceed with the call (decision , yes branch), then contact status program  directs telephone  to place the call to the contact at step . If contact status program  receives a decision from a caller not to proceed with the call (decision , no branch), then contact status program  cancels the call at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["102","102","402","404","406","408","410","412","414","402","408"]},"An operating system runs on processor  and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within telephone  in . The operating system may be, for example, a commercially available operating system such as Windows Mobile, Apple iOS, or Blackberry OS. Instructions for the operating system, applications, or programs such as contact status program  may be located on one or more computer readable storage devices, such as storage , for execution by one or more processors, such as processor , via one or more computer readable memories, such as main memory . Contact status program  can implement processes of exemplary embodiments of the invention.","Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in  may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices, such as flash ROM (or equivalent nonvolatile memory) or optical disk drives and the like, may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 5"],"b":["130","130","800","900","800","820","822","824","826","828","830","828","220","204","206","208","214","830","820","822","218","830","830","830","824"]},"Internal components  also include a R\/W drive or interface  to read from and write to one or more portable computer-readable tangible storage devices  such as a CD-ROM, DVD, memory stick, magnetic tape, magnetic disk, optical disk or semiconductor storage device. Contact status program , including social network program function , LBS program function , status selection program function , and user preference program function , can be stored on at least one or more of the portable computer-readable tangible storage devices , read via R\/W drive or interface  and loaded into at least one of one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices .","Internal components  also include a network adapter or interface , such as a TCP\/IP adapter card. Contact status program , including social network program function , LBS program function , status selection program function , and user preference program function , can be downloaded to computer  from an external computer via a network (for example, the Internet, a local area network or other, wide area network) and network adapter or interface . From the network adapter or interface , contact status program , including social network program function , LBS program function , status selection program function , and user preference program function , are loaded into at least one of one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices . The network may comprise copper wires, optical fibers, wireless transmission, routers, firewalls, switches, gateway computers and\/or edge servers.","External components  include a computer display monitor , a keyboard , and a computer mouse . Internal components  also include device drivers  to interface to computer display monitor , keyboard  and computer mouse . The device drivers , R\/W drive or interface  and network adapter or interface  comprise hardware and software (stored in one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices  and\/or one or more computer-readable ROMs ).","Contact status program , including social network program function , LBS program function , status selection program function , and user preference program function , can be written in various programming languages including low-level, high-level, object-oriented or non object-oriented languages. Alternatively, the functions of contact status program , including social network program function , LBS program function , status selection program function , and user preference program function , can be implemented in whole or in part by computer circuits and other hardware (not shown).","The description above has been presented for illustration purposes only. It is not intended to be an exhaustive description of the possible embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that other combinations and embodiments are possible."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
