---
title: Dynamic bandwidth discovery and allocation to improve performance for backing up data
abstract: A system and method for efficient transfer of backup data over multiple networks. A backup server and a client computer are coupled to one another via a network, such as a local area network (LAN). The backup server is coupled to at least one storage server via another network, such as the Internet. This storage server is coupled to another storage server via at least two networks, such as the Internet and a Fiber Channel connection. The at least two networks are discovered and initialized by the two storage servers. Two or more networks may be bonded together in a single logical communication channel for transferring backup data. In one embodiment, the backup data corresponds to a duplication operation. When two or more network channels are included in the logical communication channel, a load balancing scheme is used to assign backup data traffic to appropriate network channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08495178&OS=08495178&RS=08495178
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08495178
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110401
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates to the field of computer networks and, more particularly, to efficient transfer of backup data over multiple networks.","2. Description of the Related Art","As computer memory storage and data bandwidth increase, so does the amount and complexity of data that businesses daily manage. A large portion of the data may include electronic documents, announcements, tasks, discussion topics, and so forth. Depending on the business value of this information, access to certain information may be secure and private. The contents of information servers and end-user systems may be backed up to a backup storage to prevent loss of data, especially for data identified as crucial data. In such a case, a dedicated server and storage subsystem may include a backup system.","Administering and supporting an information technology (IT) infrastructure on a large number of end-user systems presents a significant challenge. An IT administrator may develop a management system for data backup and data protection; data recovery, restore, and restart; archiving and long-term retention; and day-to-day processes and procedures necessary to manage a storage architecture. This management system includes strategies and policies for administering storage systems on computing devices. For example, a backup image may be automatically migrated from one storage tier to another. This migration may be referred to as duplication of the backup image. Each storage tier may include a backup server coupled to storage devices such as hard disks.","The transfer of data from the backup server to the storage devices may be through a Fibre Channel (FC) link. A FC network protocol is generally implemented when a business accesses a large amount of information for booting over SANs, mail servers, file servers and large databases. In addition, server virtualization is increasingly used. Hypervisors are able to provide guest operating systems with virtualized storage, accessible through a Fibre Channel network infrastructure. An Ethernet protocol may be used to transfer information over global distances, to remote sites, or in clustered, low-latency compute environments. For example, the migration of a backup image from one backup server to a second backup server may utilize an Ethernet network.","In a given compute environment, particular network resources may be more efficient for data transfer than other network resources. However, connectivity, supported data rates of respective ports and packet sizes for applications each may affect the efficiency of network resources over time. Additionally, a given application, such as a backup application, may not support multiple network resources. Therefore, the data transfer for a backup or a duplication operation may be unable to utilize available and more efficient network resources.","In view of the above, improved systems and methods for efficient transfer of backup data over multiple networks are desired.","Systems and methods for efficient transfer of backup data over multiple networks.","In one embodiment, a computing system comprises a backup server and a client computer coupled to one another via a network, such as a local area network (LAN). The backup server is coupled to at least one storage server via another network, such as the Internet. This storage server is coupled to another storage server via at least two networks, such as the Internet and a Fibre Channel connection. The at least two networks are discovered and initialized by the storage servers. Two or more networks may be bonded together in a single logical communication channel for transferring backup data. In one embodiment, the backup data corresponds to a duplication operation. Selection to be in the logical communication channel may be dependent on several factors, such as data packet size and available bandwidth of respective network ports. When two or more network channels are included in the logical communication channel, a load-balancing scheme is used to assign backup data traffic to appropriate network channels.","These and other embodiments will be appreciated upon reference to the following description and accompanying drawings.","While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments are shown by way of example in the drawings and are herein described in detail. It should be understood, however, that drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed, but on the contrary, the invention is to cover all modifications, equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.","In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However, one having ordinary skill in the art should recognize that the invention might be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well-known circuits, structures, signals, computer program instruction, and techniques have not been shown in detail to avoid obscuring the present invention.","Various embodiments of systems and methods for efficient transfer of backup data over multiple networks are described herein. Generally speaking, two storage servers may be used in a duplication operation. A first storage server referred to as an initiator, or initiating, server may execute a backup software application. According to a given schedule, the backup software application may direct the initiator server to transfer a backup data image on a first storage medium to a target server. The first storage medium may be coupled to the initiator server. The target server may store the received backup data image on a second storage medium coupled to the target server. The transfer of the backup data image from the initiator server to the target server may utilize one or more networks. These networks may have been detected and initialized by each of the initiator and the target servers. A load-balancing scheme may be used to determine what portion of the entire backup data image to assign to each network for transferring data. A further description is provided later.","Referring to , a generalized block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a network architecture  including a capability for efficiently transferring backup data over multiple networks is shown. As shown, the network architecture  includes client computing systems -interconnected through a local area network  to one another and to a backup server . Network  may include a variety of techniques including wireless connection, direct local area network (LAN) connections, wide area network (WAN) connections such as the Internet, a router, and others. Network  may comprise one or more LANs that may also be wireless. Network  may further include remote direct memory access (RDMA) hardware and\/or software, transmission control protocol\/internet protocol (TCP\/IP) hardware and\/or software, router, repeaters, switches, grids, and\/or others. Protocols such as Fibre Channel, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), iSCSI, Infiniband and so forth may be used in network .","Client computer systems -are representative of any number of stationary or mobile computers such as desktop personal computers (PCs), servers, server farms, workstations, laptops, handheld computers, servers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), smart phones, and so forth. Generally speaking, client computer systems -include one or more processors comprising one or more processor cores. Each processor core includes circuitry for executing instructions according to a predefined general-purpose instruction set. For example, the x86 instruction set architecture may be selected. Alternatively, the Alpha\u00ae, PowerPC\u00ae, SPARC\u00ae, or any other general-purpose instruction set architecture may be selected. The processor cores may access cache memory subsystems for data and computer program instructions. The cache subsystems may be coupled to a memory hierarchy comprising random access memory (RAM) and a storage device.","Each processor core and memory hierarchy within a client computer system may be connected to a network interface. In addition to hardware components, each of the client computer systems -may include a base operating system (OS) stored within the memory hierarchy. The base OS may be representative of any of a variety of operating systems, such as, for example, MS-DOS\u00ae, MS-WINDOWS\u00ae, OS\/2\u00ae, UNIX\u00ae, Linux\u00ae, Solaris\u00ae, AIX\u00ae, DART, or otherwise. As such, the base OS may be operable to provide various services to the end-user and provide a software framework operable to support the execution of various programs. Additionally, each of the client computer systems -may include a hypervisor used to support virtual machines (VMs). As is well known to those skilled in the art, virtualization may be used in desktops and servers to fully or partially decouple software, such as an OS, from a system's hardware.","The backup server  may be coupled to a second network  through a switch . The network  may be the Internet, another outside network, or otherwise. Alternatively, network  may be coupled to network  via one or more switches. Switch  may utilize a protocol associated with both networks  and . The network  and the backup server  may interface with a set of communications protocols used for the Internet such as the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and the Internet Protocol (IP), or TCP\/IP. Switch  may be a TCP\/IP switch.","Storage devices -may be used to store copies of data within the network architecture . Storage devices -may include or be further coupled to several varieties of storage consisting of one or more hard disks, tape drives, server blades, Solid-State Disks (SSDs), or specialized devices, and may include a variety of memory devices such as RAM, Flash RAM, MEMS (Micro Electro Mechanical Systems) storage, battery-backed RAM, and\/or non-volatile RAM (NVRAM), etc. Storage devices -may be used to store copies of data stored on devices -. Storage devices -may comprise one or more of the memory devices listed for storage devices -","In one embodiment, the storage servers -in network architecture  may create a copy of files on client computing systems -to protect data. In addition, a backup agent on client computing systems -and\/or backup server  may determine when data objects qualify to be archived. The servers -may be accessed via the Internet network . In addition, the storage servers -may be accessed via at least one other network, such as network . Similar to network , protocols such as Fibre Channel, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), iSCSI, and so forth may be used in network .","In one embodiment, a load-balancing scheme may be utilized to determine what portion of selected data to assign to each of networks  and  for transferring data between storage server and storage server . For example, in one embodiment, packet size may determine the network to use for data transfer. Fibre Channel networks typically achieve more efficient data transfer for large packet sizes than Internet networks. Therefore, relatively small data blocks, such as 64 kilobytes (KB) may be transferred over the Internet network . Larger data blocks that have a size greater than 64 KB may be transferred over a Fibre Channel network, such as network .","In another embodiment, a software layer comprising drivers within the backup application  may detect the capabilities of network ports in a corresponding one of the storage servers -. In one example, this software layer may detect a Fibre Channel host bus adapter (HBA) card with 2\u00d74-gigabyte (GB) ports. Additionally, the software layer may detect an Ethernet network card with 2\u00d71-gigabyte ports. Therefore, the software layer may allocate 20% of the backup data traffic to the Ethernet ports and 80% of the backup data traffic to the Fibre Channel ports. In yet another embodiment, the allocation of backup data network traffic may be readjusted when a disconnection of a port is detected, when a connection of a new port is detected, and when a given port is measured to have a level of idleness above a first threshold or below a second threshold. For example, a busy port connection may be reallocated to have less of the backup data network traffic. A relatively idle port connection may be reallocated to have more of the backup data network traffic.","A web service is typically an application programming interface (API) or Web API that is accessed via Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and may be executed by storage servers -and backup server . A web service supports interoperable machine-to-machine interaction over a network. It has an interface described in a machine-process format, such as Web Services Description Language (WSDL). Storage servers -, backup server  and other machines and servers not shown may communicate with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services.","The backup server  and the storage servers -may include a backup application . As shown for storage server , this backup application , or \u201cbackup manager\u201d may comprise program instructions stored on the memory  and executable by the processor  to perform one or more backup operations. Backup operations may include creating partial or full backups, e.g., on a computer system or from one computer system to another system; performing restore functions (e.g., partial or granular restore functions, or full restore functions) on a computer system or from one computer system to another computer system; backup operations may also include other operations, such as duplication operations. Policies for backup and duplication operations within a lifecycle may be determined for data images. For example, the policies may include determining a number of tiers in a tiered storage, a type and a number of storage media, a time duration for an image to be stored on a given storage medium, the hours of the day to block from particular operations, and so forth.","A backup system agent may assist the backup manager . The backup manager  may be configured to create a volume image backup. In some embodiments, the backup manager  may receive user input directing the backup manager  to create a volume image backup of a specific system. In some embodiments, the backup manager  may create a volume image backup of a specific system automatically, e.g., the backup manager may be scheduled to perform regular backups of a specific system. As part of creating backups, the backup manager  may also create catalog metadata  associated with the backup data.","The catalog metadata  created by the backup manager  during a backup operation may include at least one or more of the following: a data name, data size, a fingerprint of the data, a batch number, as well as data type, version number, ownership, permissions, modification time, backup segment and sub-segment identifiers, cryptography segment and sub-segment identifiers, error code, etc. A batch number may be used to identify the particular backup operation in which an associated backup entry was created. Other forms of metadata and\/or identifiers will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The catalog metadata  may be usable for restore browsing, e.g., at a later time. For example, the data layout of stored information in backup storage devices -and archive stores -may be stored in the catalog .","In one embodiment, a file system  may be used to provide a special-purpose database for the storage, organization, manipulation, and retrieval of data. File system  may provide access to data by operating as clients for a network protocol. Alternatively, file system  may be virtual and exist only as an access method for virtual data. In one embodiment, the backup server  comprises a file system , but the storage servers -do not.","It is noted that in alternative embodiments, the number and type of client computers and servers, switches, networks and shared storage is not limited to those shown in . At various times one or more clients may operate offline. In addition, during operation, individual client computer connection types may change as users connect, disconnect, and reconnect to network architecture .","Referring to , a generalized block diagram of one embodiment of an information lifecycle  is shown. Information lifecycle , or simply lifecycle , illustrates the managing of a flow of an information system's data and associated metadata from creation and initial storage to the time when the data becomes obsolete and may be deleted. A data image may comprise at least one or more files of information, associated metadata, and associated storage arrangement information such as directories, folders, and subfolders. Data image  may be stored on a data storage medium . In one embodiment, data image  is initially stored on data storage medium  at time t. In another embodiment, time t may be chosen as an initial point-in-time for lifecycle  although data image  has been stored on data storage medium  for a period of time prior to time t.","In one embodiment, data storage medium  may be a disk drive associated with a file system used for storing data of one or more client computers. A scheduled backup operation may create a copy of data image  to be stored on a separate storage medium, such as data storage medium . Snapshot image  may represent a copy of data image . The one or more files in snapshot image  may comprise a different file format than a format used to store data image . The backup operation may be a scheduled event by an information technology (IT) administrator. The backup operation that creates snapshot image  may be scheduled during a particular time window of availability, wherein a determination is made that no concurrent access of data storage medium  occurs during the particular time window of availability. For example, it may be determined another lifecycle policy, which is not shown, is not concurrently accessing data storage medium  when the backup operation is occurring. In one embodiment, data image  may be deleted, or expired, from data storage medium  after the snapshot image  is created. This deletion may occur immediately or a given time after the snapshot creation according to a schedule by the IT administrator.","The process described above may be repeated for subsequent moves of the data image . Continuing with the flow of data illustrated in lifecycle , a subsequent duplication operation, which is shown as Duplication in , may move the snapshot image  from data storage medium  to data storage medium . This subsequent duplication operation may occur after a given delay, which is shown as Delay in . A copy of the data stored in snapshot image  is made and represented in  by duplicated image . As used herein, the term \u201cduplication\u201d refers to a copy operation that occurs after an initial backup operation of a data image. The duplication operation is performed on a snapshot image or another subsequent copy of the snapshot image. The movement of data in snapshot image  to duplicated image  may be through two or more networks between two storage servers. For example, referring again to , the movement of data may occur from storage server through the Internet  and another network  to storage server ","The duplication operation that creates duplicated image  may be scheduled during a particular time window of availability. For example, the time window that occurs between time t and time t is a time window of availability for the first duplication operation. Similar to the deletion of data image , snapshot image  may be deleted, or expired, from data storage medium  after the duplicated image  is created. This deletion may occur immediately or a given time after the creation of the duplicated image .","The movement process described above may be repeated several more times as defined by system administration. For example, another duplication operation, which is shown as Duplication in , may move duplicated image  from data storage medium  to data storage medium . This subsequent duplication operation may occur a given delay after the completion of the previous duplication operation. This given delay is shown as Delay in . Similar to the data transfer during Duplication, he movement of data in snapshot image  to duplicated image  may be through two or more networks between two storage servers. In one embodiment, data storage medium  may be a final data storage medium in a lifecycle of data image  prior to sending data image  to an off-site storage location, an on-site tape storage medium, or otherwise.","Turning now to , a generalized flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a method  for efficient transfer of backup data over multiple networks is shown. The components embodied in network architecture  may generally operate in accordance with method . It is noted for purposes of discussion, the steps in this embodiment of method  are described in sequential order. However, some steps may occur in a different order than shown, some steps may be performed concurrently, some steps may be combined with other steps, and some steps may be absent in another embodiment.","In block , available networks for data transfer between two storage servers are detected. In one embodiment, a software layer is added to a backup software application. The software layer may be configured to discover various types of network resources on network interfaces of a corresponding storage server. In one example, the software layer discovers available Fibre Channel and Ethernet network resources from a Fibre Channel HBA port and an Ethernet network interface. In one example, the software layer may scan the Fibre Channel HBA ports to find available remote hosts and setup one initial logical communication channel between two hosts to transfer data. The two hosts may be storage servers -in one example. Then the software layer may discover whether an Ethernet network is available for data transfer. If so, the Ethernet channel may be inserted into the single logical communication channel. Similarly, the Ethernet channel may initialize the single logical communication channel first.","In block , the discovered available networks are initialized. In one embodiment, an initialization protocol comprises a login phase that follows a discovery phase. Before packets may be transmitted between an initiator storage server and a target storage server, the steps for a given initialization protocol may be performed in order to establish links between the storage servers. In one embodiment, these links are virtual links. Examples of the initiator and the target storage servers include storage servers -in . Initialization protocols are followed for network technologies such as Fibre Channel, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), Infiniband and others. Network interface card (NIC) device drivers and logic within the software layer of the backup application  may be used to perform network initialization.","In block , one or more of the available initialized networks are selected to be included in a logical connection. The software layer described earlier may be within the backup application  or the code may be an add-on or a plug-in for the backup application . This software layer may bond two or more selected networks to a single logical channel for transferring data. For example, this software layer may bond together resources for an available Fibre Channel network and an available Ethernet network. In one embodiment, the software layer may utilize a set of application programming interfaces (APIs), such as socket APIs, to transfer data over a Fibre Channel network based on a SCSI target mode driver. Then the same APIs may be utilized to transfer data over both the available Fibre Channel and Ethernet networks.","In block , a load-balancing scheme for the selected networks is determined. A load-balancing scheme may be utilized to determine what portion of selected data to assign to each of the networks  and  for transferring data between storage server and storage server . As described earlier, a load balancing scheme may be based on packet size or data block size, available bandwidth of network ports, levels of idleness for networks within the single logical communication channel, connection of new networks, and disconnection of current network.","In block , an initiator storage server sends data to a target storage server through the single logical communication connection according to a load-balancing scheme. If a change in capabilities of networks for data transfer is detected (conditional block ), then control flow of method  returns to block  and initialization is possibly performed again. Otherwise, control flow returns to block  and data is transferred according to the load-balancing scheme. A detected change may include disconnection of a current network, connection of a new network, or a change in utilization of a given network.","Turning now to , a generalized block diagram of one embodiment of a single logical communication channel is shown. Hardware and software components that correspond to those of  are numbered identically. Memory medium  comprises a base OS , one or more OS filter drivers and device drivers , and one or more other software applications, such as backup application . A software layer may include input\/output (I\/O) drivers and I\/O APIs . It is noted that the depicted software components may be paged in and out of a main memory in a conventional manner from a storage medium such as a hard drive (not shown). Each of storage servers -may be coupled to storage devices -, respectively, through one of respective Fibre Channel connections -","A single logical communication channel  may comprise one or more available networks. For example, networks -may have been selected to be included in the logical communication channel . As shown, at least a Fibre Channel protocol , an Ethernet protocol and another network protocol (not specified) are within the logical communication channel . Networks corresponding to the protocols -may be used for data transfer, such as for a duplication operation. The protocol is not included in the logical communication channel .","The software in component , which may also include network proxy logic, may be used during network initialization and during packet handling procedures. This functionally may additionally include network protocol login steps, host identifier generation, packet conversion and packet tracking. This functionality may be implemented in hardware such as ASICs, in software, or both. A portion or all of this functionality may also be placed in a corresponding one of network interfaces -. This functionality may include Berkeley sockets, or socket APIs. These socket APIs may allow network access, such as a connection-oriented approach, whereby TCP maintains a channel between the initiator storage server and the target storage server. This connection-oriented approach may also be referred to as a session-oriented approach. Socket APIs identify specific processes running on a machine that is accessible via an IP connection. By giving each service process running on a machine a \u201cport\u201d\u2014a numeric value used to identify the process\u2014a client application can distinguish between, say, a file transfer service and a Web service. Therefore, a message may be sent to a specific software process, which is an end point for the communication.","Turning now to , a generalized flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a method  for a load-balancing scheme used for data transfer through the single logical communication channel is shown. The components embodied in network architecture  may generally operate in accordance with method . It is noted for purposes of discussion, the steps in this embodiment of method  are described in sequential order. However, some steps may occur in a different order than shown, some steps may be performed concurrently, some steps may be combined with other steps, and some steps may be absent in another embodiment.","In block , the data rate, or bandwidth, of network ports is scanned for each of the selected networks in the logical communication connection, or channel. In block , network usage of each of the selected networks is determined. In block , the packet size of network traffic is detected. At least all of this collected information may be used to determine a load-balancing scheme for data transfer across the single logical communication connection.","If the packet size of network traffic is greater than a given threshold (conditional block ), then in block , a first network of the selected networks within the logical communication connection may be chosen for data transfer. For example, a given threshold may be 64 KB and for a packet with a size greater this threshold, a Fibre Channel network within the logical communication connection may be chosen for data transfer. Similarly, if the packet size of network traffic is less than another given threshold (conditional block ), then in block , a second network of the selected networks within the logical communication connection may be chosen for data transfer. In addition, distance may be factored in to the decision-making process along with packet size.","If a given network usage is greater than a third threshold (conditional block ), then in block , a third network of the selected networks may be selected for data transfer. For example, if one of the selected networks within the logical communication connection is heavily loaded already with network traffic, then another network may be selected for data transfer. A network that is relatively idle may be selected for data transfer. If a given network usage is less than a fourth threshold (conditional block ), then in block , a fourth network of the selected networks may be selected for data transfer. For example, other networks may not be heavily loaded already with network traffic, but a given network may be idle or near idle. Therefore, this network may be chosen for data transfer. It is noted that weights may be assigned to each of the factors for load balancing and comparisons to given thresholds may be a first phase of determine a network to select for transferring current data packets.","In block , a data packet may be assigned to a given network of the networks within the logical communication connection according to data rates of respective network ports. Again, weights and other formulas may be utilized to derive a load-balancing scheme for determining data packet assignment. In block , a reevaluation of networks for inclusion in the logical communication connection may be performed.","Turning now to , a generalized flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a method  for assigning network channels for the single logical communication channel is shown. The components embodied in network architecture  may generally operate in accordance with method . It is noted for purposes of discussion, the steps in this embodiment of method  are described in sequential order. However, some steps may occur in a different order than shown, some steps may be performed concurrently, some steps may be combined with other steps, and some steps may be absent in another embodiment.","In block , data is transferred for duplication over the logical communication connection. In block , statuses of networks within and outside the logical communication connection are monitored. If a disconnection of a given network within the logical communication connection is detected (conditional block ), then in block , the assignment of backup data network traffic over the logical communication connection is performed again. A redistribution of the network traffic may occur now that at least one network channel is removed. The redistribution may follow steps shown in method . Available bandwidth of network ports, current usage of networks, and packet size may be used for determining the redistribution.","If a change in a data rate or an available bandwidth of a respective port of a given network within the logical communication connection is detected (conditional block ), then control flow of method  moves to block . If a network channel outside the logical communication connection is detected to have sufficient value to be in the logical communication connection (conditional block ), then in block , this network channel may be added to the logical communication connection. This outside network channel may have had more bandwidth added to its ports, may have reached a high level of idleness, may have good capabilities for efficiently transferring packets of a current size that are being transferred, or other.","Similarly, if a network channel inside the logical communication connection is detected to have insufficient value to be in the logical communication connection (conditional block ), then in block , this network channel may be removed from the logical communication connection. The above factors may be used for this determination as well. Weights may be attributed to the differing factors and different formulas may be used to determine whether a given network channel has sufficient or insufficient value regarding being included in the logical communication channel. When a network channel is added or removed, the steps in method  may be repeated.","It is noted that the above-described embodiments may comprise software. In such an embodiment, program instructions and\/or a database (both of which may be referred to as \u201cinstructions\u201d) that represents the described systems and\/or methods may be conveyed or stored on a computer readable medium. Generally speaking, a computer accessible storage medium may include any storage media accessible by a computer during use to provide instructions and\/or data to the computer. For example, a computer accessible storage medium may include storage media such as magnetic or optical media, e.g., disk (fixed or removable), tape, CD-ROM, or DVD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW, DVD-R, DVD-RW, or Blu-Ray. Storage media may further include volatile or non-volatile memory media such as RAM (e.g. synchronous dynamic RAM (SDRAM), double data rate (DDR, DDR2, DDR3, etc.) SDRAM, low-power DDR (LPDDR2, etc.) SDRAM, Rambus DRAM (RDRAM), static RAM (SRAM), etc.), ROM, Flash memory, non-volatile memory (e.g. Flash memory) accessible via a peripheral interface such as the Universal Serial Bus (USB) interface, etc. Storage media may include microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), as well as storage media accessible via a communication medium such as a network and\/or a wireless link.","In various embodiments, one or more portions of the methods and mechanisms described herein may form part of a cloud computing environment. In such embodiments, resources may be provided over the Internet as services according to one or more various models. Such models may include Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS). In IaaS, computer infrastructure is delivered as a service. In such a case, the computing equipment is generally owned and operated by the service provider. In the PaaS model, software tools and underlying equipment used by developers to develop software solutions may be provided as a service and hosted by the service provider. SaaS typically includes a service provider licensing software as a service on demand. The service provider may host the software, or may deploy the software to a customer for a given period of time. Numerous combinations of the above models are possible and are contemplated.","Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail, numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
