---
title: Accounting for authorship in a web log search engine
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide a method, system and computer program product for authorship accountability in a blog search engine. In an embodiment of the invention, a method for authorship accountability in a blog search engine is provided. The method includes receiving a search engine query specifying both query terms to query blog content and also authorship criteria for authors of blog content in respective entries of a results set returned by the search engine query. The method additionally includes evaluating the authorship criteria for each author of corresponding blog content returned by the search engine query and computing a relevance for each entry in the results set based upon the evaluated authorship criteria. Finally, the method includes presenting in order of relevance a listing of blog content corresponding to the results set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251269&OS=09251269&RS=09251269
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09251269
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111027
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to search results characterization in a search engine and more particularly to search results characterization in a Web log (\u201cblog\u201d) search engine.","2. Description of the Related Art","Content distribution serves a core function of the Internet. From the earliest days of Internet computing, tools such as \u201cArchie\u201d and \u201cGopher\u201d provided content retrieval mechanisms in which content\u2014namely academic and technical publications\u2014could be located and retrieved, even if the identify of a retrieved publication had not been known a priori. Nearly two decades ago, with the development and commercial deployment of the World Wide Web (the \u201cWeb\u201d), content searching tools experienced a dramatic leap forward with the development of several commercially accessible search engines specifically geared to content distributed over the Web. Even today, search engine technology for Web based content continues to evolve in ways unimaginable even just a few years ago.","In the prototypical search engine, in a process often referred to as \u201cspidering\u201d, a computer program periodically (or today, continuously) probes Web accessible content sources\u2014namely Web sites\u2014parses the textually content of the content sources and incorporates the parsed content into an index. Thereafter, query terms can be received through a generic user interface (UI) and the index can be consulted to identify indexed content containing one or more of the query terms, also referred to as search terms. Finally, a result set can be presented in the UI to the querying end user. Optionally, the relevancy of each result set can be provided in the result set indicating a percentage of query terms appearing in the result set. Further, the result set can be sorted according to relevance so that the most relevant results appear at the beginning of the list for ease of access by the querying end user.","While search engine technology has formed part and parcel of the daily Internet experience for the typical end user in respect to content on the Web, the efficacy of the traditional search engine has not translated well to the \u201cBlogosphere\u201d. The term \u201cBlogosphere\u201d refers to the collection of Web logs (\u201cblogs\u201d) accessible through the Web or outside of the Web. As it is well known, a blog is essentially an open diary produced by an author expressing thoughts either amorphously, or more typically in accordance with a theme. Thus, blog postings and indeed the entirety of a blog, often is associated with one author or a collective of authors. Thus, while the content itself of a basic Web page may be the only important aspect of the Web page from the perspective of an end user searching Web content, in the Blogosphere, the content of the blog in addition to the nature of the author of the blog can be equally as important. Yet, the conventional search engine does not account for the nature of the author in performing content searching.","Embodiments of the present invention address deficiencies of the art in respect to content searching blogs and provide a novel and non-obvious method, system and computer program product for authorship accountability in a blog search engine. In an embodiment of the invention, a method for authorship accountability in a blog search engine is provided. The method includes receiving a search engine query specifying both query terms to query blog content and also authorship criteria for authors of blog content in respective entries of a results set returned by the search engine query. The method additionally includes evaluating the authorship criteria for each author of corresponding blog content returned by the search engine query and computing a relevance for each entry in the results set based upon the evaluated authorship criteria. Finally, the method includes presenting in order of relevance a listing of blog content corresponding to the results set.","In one aspect of the embodiment, the method further can include receiving in the search engine query content criteria for the blog content in the respective entries of the results set returned by the search engine query and evaluating the content criteria for blog content returned by the search engine query before computing the relevance for each entry in the results set based both upon the evaluated authorship criteria and also the evaluated content criteria. In another aspect of the embodiment, the method additionally includes weighting with disparate weights the content criteria and the authorship criteria.","Additional aspects of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or may be learned by practice of the invention. The aspects of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed.","Embodiments of the invention provide for authorship accountability in a blog search engine. In accordance with an embodiment, authorship characteristics can be accounted for in performing a search of blog content in the Blogosphere. In this regard, when querying blog content according to one or more query terms, at least one authorship criteria can be specified for the blog content, such as the trustworthiness of authors corresponding to located blog content and a degree to which the authors are deemed an authority with respect to the located blog content. Further, non-authorship, content criteria pertaining to the blog itself can be factored in the search including a number of times a blog has been viewed or the presence or absence of one or more keywords in tags for the blog content. The authorship criteria, and optionally content criteria, can be weighted according to the subjective importance to the end user initiating the search and a result set can be presented according to a relevance of each result computed based upon the authorship criteria and, optionally, the content criteria. In this way, authorship characteristics can be accounted for in searching blog content in the Blogosphere.","In further illustration,  pictorially shows a process for authorship accountability in a blog search engine. As shown in , an end user  can direct a query of blog content  through a search engine  configured to search the blog content  according to one or more query terms. In addition to specifying one or more query terms  for the query, the end user  also can specify authorship criteria  to be evaluated against different authors of blog content  returned in a result set  for the query, and also content criteria  to be evaluated against the blog content  returned in the result set  for the query.","The authorship criteria  can include, for example, an indication of the degree to which a blog author of blog content  in a result set  is deemed knowledgeable, or trustworthy. Likewise, the content criteria  can include, for example, an indication of whether or not one or more tags have been applied to the blog content  in the result set , or an indication of a number of instances the blog content  in the result set  has been viewed. Of note, authorship sensitive relevance processor  can apply the authorship criteria  to the result set  in order to rearrange the result set  into a relevance based result set . Optionally, the processor  can consider the content criteria  to further compute the relevance of each result in the result set . To that end, different criteria ,  can be associated with different weights A, B in order to weight some of the criteria ,  or less than others of the criteria , .","The process described in connection with , can be implemented in a blog search engine data processing system. In yet further illustration,  schematically shows a blog search engine data processing system configured for authorship accountability in a blog search engine. The system can include a host server  with at least one processor and memory configured for communicative coupling to different client computing devices  over computer communications network . The host server  can support the execution of a blog search engine  within the memory of the host server . The blog search engine  can be configured to process search engine queries  for searching blog content in the Blogosphere.","In particular, the blog search engine  can produce a blog search UI  for distribution to the different client computing devices  with which end users can submit queries  to the blog search engine . On note, each of the queries  can specify not only query terms for conducting a query of blog content, but also one or more authorship criteria . Optionally, one or more of the queries  can further specify one or more content criteria . The authorship criteria  can include, by way of example, the degree to which an author of blog content is considered authoritative and the degree to which an author of blog content is considered trustworthy.","In the former instance, authoritativeness can be computed by determining a number of times a particular author has been published, a number of times others have commented on the blog content, or a number of others whom have subscribed to blog content authored by an author. As it is well known in the art, the computation of authoritativeness can be achieved by querying an application programming interface (API) to a publication source such as a blog or online database in order to determine a number of times content has been viewed, commented upon, linked to by other Web pages, or downloaded in the case of a published downloadable document. By comparison, trustworthiness can be computed by determining whether or not an author is known to the querying end user through inclusion in a list of contacts for the end user such as buddy lists social network friends or links lists, or frequent communications exchanged by the end user with the author.","Importantly, authorship sensitive relevance module  can be coupled to the blog search engine . The authorship sensitive relevance module  can include program code that when executed in the memory of the host server  is enabled to receive through the blog search UI  authorship criteria for query , and optionally content criteria. The program code further is enabled to compute a relevance for each blog content entry returned by the blog search engine  responsive to the query  based upon the authorship criteria, and optionally the content criteria. For instance, blog content entries returned by the blog search engine  in which a corresponding author is determined to be either or both authoritative and trustworthy can be ranked higher than other blog content entries returned by the blog search engine  for the query . Thereafter, the program code of the module  can return a sorted result set  providing a sort order of blog content from higher to lower relevance to a querying end user.","In even yet further illustration of the operation of the authorship sensitive relevance module ,  is a flow chart illustrating a process for authorship accountability in a blog search engine. Beginning in block , a request can be received from an end user to compose a query to query blog content accessible over a computer communications network. In block , a search engine UI can be returned to the end user for completion with one or more query terms, authorship criteria, and optionally content criteria. In block , a completed form of the search engine UI can be received and in block , the authorship criteria can be extracted from the UI form, in block  one or more query terms can be extracted from the UI form, and in block  as an option content criteria can be extracted from the UI form.","In block , different weights for the different authorship and content criteria can be computed. By default, each different criteria can be weighted equally, however, in other aspects of the embodiment, the different criteria can be weighted disparately. In block , the query terms extracted from the UI form can be used in executing a query against blog content in the Blogosphere and in block , a set of search results can be returned responsive to the query, each of the search results referring to blog content. In block , the authorship criteria can be evaluated for each different author corresponding to each different entry in the result set. Likewise, where applicable, the content criteria can be evaluated for the blog content of each different entry in the result set. In block , a relevance value can be computed for each entry in the result set based upon the weighted combination of the evaluated criteria for each entry in the result set and in block  the entries of the result set can be sorted from entry of highest relevance to entry of lowest relevance. Finally, in block  the sorted result set can be returned to the querying end user.","As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system, method or computer program product. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.) or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a \u201ccircuit,\u201d \u201cmodule\u201d or \u201csystem.\u201d Furthermore, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium(s) having computer readable program code embodied thereon.","Any combination of one or more computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, or device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer readable storage medium would include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), an optical storage device, a magnetic storage device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document, a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain, or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. With specific reference to a computer readable storage medium, it is to be understood that a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory media such as transitory signals and other propagation media.","A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein, for example, in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms, including, but not limited to, electro-magnetic, optical, or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate, propagate, or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium, including but not limited to wireless, wireline, optical fiber cable, radiofrequency, and the like, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language and conventional procedural programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user's computer, partly on the user's computer, as a stand-alone software package, partly on the user's computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario, the remote computer may be connected to the user's computer through any type of network, including a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), or the connection may be made to an external computer (for example, through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider).","Aspects of the present invention have been described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems) and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. In this regard, the flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. For instance, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that, in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","It also will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer, other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","Finally, the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d and\/or \u201ccomprising,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","The corresponding structures, materials, acts, and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure, material, or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.","Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof, it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims as follows:"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention. The embodiments illustrated herein are presently preferred, it being understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
