---
title: System and method for transport, network, translation, and adaptive coding in a vehicular network environment
abstract: In accordance with one embodiment, a system and method are provided for translation services to facilitate interoperation between mobility schemes. In other embodiments, the system and method may provide transport and network services for legacy applications, and adaptive coding for message, packet, link and physical layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09154900&OS=09154900&RS=09154900
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09154900
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110524
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS","Overview","Example Embodiments"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/433,138, filed Jan. 14, 2011, by Sateesh K. Addepalli, et al., entitled \u201cSYSTEM, METHOD, AND PROCESSES ASSOCIATED WITH CONNECTED VEHICLES,\u201d which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","This specification relates in general to the field of communications, and more particularly, to a system and method for transport, network, translation, and adaptive coding in a vehicular network environment.","Networking architectures have grown increasingly complex and have been designed for use in a wide variety of communications environments. Demand continues to rise among the subscriber base of end users for network access across diverse network environments. In particular, configuring suitable network architecture for vehicular environments (e.g., automobiles, airplanes, trains, boats, etc.) presents unique difficulties. For example, many legacy applications may not support mobility or multi-homing and thus may be of limited value in a vehicular network. Another obstacle is the lack of interoperability between various mobility schemes, which can create isolated pockets of mobile networks having nodes that cannot communicate with nodes belonging to a different type of mobile network. Moreover, the high variability and availability of wireless links due to vehicle mobility can adversely affect quality of service in a vehicular environment. High packet losses due to the varying wireless channel characteristics can cause significant degradation in the quality and quantity of services that can be provided to subscribers. Thus, providing a comprehensive architecture that can provide a quality user experience by integrating legacy applications, enabling interoperability between disparate mobility schemes, and mitigating temporary network disconnections continues to present significant challenges to system designers, automobile manufacturers, service providers, and the like.","A method is provided in one example embodiment that includes intercepting a lookup request from a first mobile node using a first mobile scheme and retrieving control information for a second mobile node using a second mobile scheme based on the lookup request. The control information may be forwarded to the first mobile node, and a data plane between the first mobile node and the second mobile node can be established. Packets exchanged between the first mobile node and the second mobile node can be intercepted and translated from the first mobile scheme to the second mobile scheme and vice versa.","In other embodiments, a method may be provided that includes receiving a request to exchange data over a network using a first protocol and matching parameters associated with the first protocol to a match pattern. An action set associated with the match pattern may be applied to modify the request to conform to a second protocol, and the data may be exchanged over the network using the second protocol.","In yet other embodiments, a method may be provided that includes receiving a request to exchange data between a source node and a destination node over a network. The request may be analyzed to determine data protection requirements, and a combination of data protection schemes can be selected dynamically and applied across network layers.","Turning to ,  is a simplified block diagram of an example embodiment of a network environment  in accordance with this specification. The example embodiment of  includes connected vehicles -in communication with applications and services -through various communication networks, including transportation cloud , OEM cloud , dealer cloud , and Internet cloud . Each of connected vehicles -may also be in communication with various mobile devices, such as in-vehicle mobile devices  and . In general, each connected vehicle -may include an on-board unit (OBU) -that can establish and manage communications over any viable pathway, such as 3G\/4G networks -, WiFi networks -, WiFi dedicated short range communication (DSRC) , and ad hoc DSRC -, for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["100","200","202","204","206","200"]},"Thus, OBU  may be coupled to machine devices in communication system  through a network, such as a controller area network (CAN) or an IP-based local area network, for example. As illustrated in , OBU  is coupled to machine devices through CAN . As used herein, the term \u2018machine device\u2019 is meant to encompass sensors, such as sensors -, electronic control units (ECUs) such as controls -, actuators such as actuator , navigation systems such as navigation system , and displays such as display . Machine devices may further include instruments, embedded devices, media devices, infotainment systems, other peripheral or auxiliary devices or components, etc. Machine devices may be physically distributed across the vehicle in a vehicle subsystem, consolidated in any way, provisioned in proprietary configurations, or otherwise configured based on particular networking, vehicle, and\/or end user needs. In one example embodiment, sensors -and controls -may be part of an automotive diagnostic system, indicated by vehicle diagnostics , which may also be suitably integrated with OBU .","OBU  may also be suitably coupled to various mobile devices at any given time, where such devices may be associated with particular end users (passengers or driver) within vehicle . Mobile devices, such as in-vehicle mobile devices -, are inclusive of mobile phones, smart mobile phones (smartphones), e-book readers, tablets, iPads, personal digital assistants (PDAs), laptops or electronic notebooks, portable navigation systems, multimedia gadgets (e.g., cameras, players, etc.), gaming systems, and any other device, component, element, or object capable of initiating voice, audio, video, media, or data exchanges within communication system . Data, as used herein, refers to any type of numeric, voice, video, or script data, or any type of source or object code, or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another in electronic devices and\/or networks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["240","204","229","240","250","104","298","259"],"i":["a","d"]},"Elements of  and  may be coupled to one another through one or more interfaces employing any suitable connection (wired or wireless), which provides a viable pathway for electronic communications. Additionally, any one or more of these elements may be combined or removed from the architecture based on particular configuration needs. Communication system  may include a configuration capable of transmission control protocol\/Internet protocol (TCP\/IP) communications for the electronic transmission or reception of packets in a network. Communication system  may also operate in conjunction with a user datagram protocol\/IP (UDP\/IP) or any other suitable protocol, where appropriate and based on particular needs. In addition, communication system  may also include a configuration capable of accommodating legacy bus subsystems or IP-based systems such as Ethernet that may be employed to convey information across the myriad of machine devices (e.g., sensors -, controls -, actuator ) in vehicle .","For purposes of illustrating the operational aspects of communication system , it is important to first understand the activities and problems that may be present in electronic communication scenarios in a vehicular environment such as the one shown in  and . The following foundational information may be viewed as a basis from which the present disclosure may be properly explained. Such information is offered earnestly for purposes of explanation only and, accordingly, should not be construed in any way to limit the broad scope of this disclosure and its potential applications.","Many modern vehicles include some degree of internal data processing capability and network communication. Originally, vehicle networks were confined by the boundaries of the vehicle itself, but with the advent of global positioning systems and satellite radio, external communication is becoming more commonplace as well. More complex vehicular communication systems continue to emerge as a type of network having many disparate nodes, such as vehicles, roadside stations, mobile wireless devices, and traffic control devices.","As vehicular networks continue to evolve, new protocols may be implemented to facilitate communications between nodes\u2014particularly new transport (L4) and network (L3) protocols between mobile nodes. However, adapting existing applications to work with new protocols can present a significant hurdle. For example, original source code may be unavailable or may require significant modification to use new socket application programming interfaces (APIs). Unless source code is modified, though, applications may be tied to their original choice of transport or network protocol and unable to leverage the features and services from newer protocols on the host's stack. Such a limitation is particularly undesirable when new protocols have the potential to improve application performance and\/or network efficiency.","For example, TCP does not support multihoming or multistreaming, but other transport protocols such as Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) do support these features. Thus, a legacy TCP application that cannot be recompiled cannot benefit from these transport services. Likewise, such an application cannot leverage other networking advancements like the Datagram Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP) and IPv6, for example.","IP or other L3 mobility can be critical to many adjacencies, including connected vehicles. Different mobility protocols, such as Mobile IP and Location\/Identifier Separation Protocol for Mobile Node (LISP-MN), can provide needed mobility solutions, but each such mobility scheme generally assumes that a mobile node is communicating with either a non-mobile node or a mobile node that implements the same mobility scheme. The different mobility schemes lack interoperability, and thereby can create isolated pockets of mobile networks having nodes that cannot efficiently communicate with nodes belonging to a different type of mobile network.","High mobility of nodes and constantly varying channel conditions also present many challenges to wireless communication in a vehicular network environment. High packet losses due to varying wireless channel characteristics can cause degradation in the quality and quantity of services that can be provided to a subscriber. A subscriber may find the quality of the service unacceptable, particularly in comparison to services to which the subscriber may already be accustomed, such as home Internet services. Thus, systems are needed that counter the effects of unpredictable and highly variable channel conditions to deliver an acceptable quality of service to a subscriber.","In accordance with embodiments disclosed herein, communication system  can overcome these shortcomings (and others) by providing translation services to facilitate interoperation between mobility schemes, transport and network services for legacy applications, and message, packet, link and physical layer adaptive coding.","For example, communication system  may include a mobility translator that translates across different mobility schemes. In more particular embodiments, a mobility translator may be provided in a network element, such as a gateway. A network element may also include a network appliance, server, router, switch, bridge, loadbalancer, firewall, processor, module, or any other suitable device, component, element, or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. A mobility translator can provide control and data plane functions on behalf of a mobile node so that the mobile node can seamlessly communicate with another node implementing and\/or understanding a different mobility scheme, and vice versa. Accordingly, a mobility translator can enable different mobility schemes to interoperate and\/or coexist instead of competing with each other. A mobility translator can also provide a mechanism for legacy mobile networks to adopt new network mobility schemes or models while substantially reducing or eliminating the need for upgrades to equipment, software, or policies, for example.","Communication system  may additionally or alternatively include a configurable pseudo-socket layer (PSL) that can enable legacy applications to leverage features and services of L3 and L4 protocols that may not be available in the application's original choice of protocols. For example, a configurable PSL can expose a generic, backward-compatible socket API to applications that does not require changing an application's source code. The PSL can intercept the application's API calls and take actions based on certain configurable policies, thereby enabling the application to benefit from new L4 through L3 services. The PSL can be extended to leverage services from a wide variety of protocols, including L4 protocols such as multipath TCP, SCTP, DCCP, and UDP, and L3 protocols such as IPv4 and IPv6, for example. Other examples of protocols that may be leveraged through a PSL in accordance with this specification include Host Identity Protocol (HIP), Transport Layer Security (TLS), and Datagram TLS (DTLS). Transport mappings can range from a simple one-to-one mapping (e.g., mapping one TCP connection to one DCCP connection) to more complex m:n mappings (e.g., mapping m TCP connections to n SCTP multi-stream associations), based on polices for example. Thus, in certain embodiments, a PSL may be driven by policy configurations, which can be modified depending on various environmental conditions, application requirements, and user preferences. In addition, a PSL can dynamically discover services available from a peer and adapt behavior accordingly. The services provided by a PSL in accordance with this specification can provide an application with better performance and security while also improving network efficiency.","Communication system  may also provide multiple levels of protection to data that is being exchanged over a wireless channel to maximize performance jointly across different links. Since an OBU can be the ingress and egress point for all on-board nodes, an OBU may act as a gateway between all on-board nodes and a vehicular network environment, such as network environment , and maintain complete knowledge of the priority of data being transmitted and the characteristics of the wireless channel being used by radio interfaces (e.g., WiFi, 3G, Bluetooth, etc.) The OBU can implement an adaptive protection manager to dynamically select an optimal combination of coding and data protection schemes across different network layers, wireless networks, applications, and operating scenarios so as to maximum some utility function or metric. More particularly, an OBU can collect and measure statistics and select a coding scheme (or set of coding schemes) from a set of available schemes, providing a particular level of protection, to be used for each type of data, leveraging known interactions of data flow through the stack to improve the chances of successfully delivering the data to the destination. For example, network coding combined with physical layer coding may provide performance that is more favorable. This combination of coding schemes may be realized between, for example, a controller and OBU as traffic passes through. Furthermore, as a vehicle moves, an OBU may be connected to different wireless networks and a coding scheme can be adapted to interface changes. Coding negotiation may take place between two OBUs or between an OBU and a network infrastructure device or network element, such as a controller, which can enable optimal data transport between OBUs or OBU and infrastructure without modifying subscriber devices. As used herein, \u2018infrastructure\u2019 is intended to mean nodes, network elements, access points, base stations, and any other device, element, or object that can facilitate sending and receiving communications in a vehicular network environment.","Providing protection at multiple layers may have many advantages, including fine-grained and differentiated data protection. Since data can be interpreted differently at each layer of the network stack, coding at multiple layers allows management of the context in which data is protected. Furthermore, different types of data can be offered different levels of protection, based on quality of service (QoS) requirements and priority, for example. Multi-layer coding can also facilitate adapting to channel conditions, since it is possible for higher layers to interpret the data even if lower layers cannot recover all errors. Each layer can also change its coding strategy in response to lost or damaged data, which provides greater flexibility in handling variable channel conditions while avoiding or eliminating a single point of failure (e.g., increasing strength of a physical layer coding scheme alone may be of no use if a wireless channel experiences deep fades).","Turning to the infrastructure of , end user  can be associated with a person (e.g., a driver or passenger) having any type of relationship to the vehicle such as an owner, a renter, a temporary driver, a family member or friend of the owner, etc. End user  may initiate communication in communication system  via some network, and such communication may be initiated through any suitable node, inclusive of an in-vehicle mobile device or , display , and navigation system . In one embodiment, additional displays may be provided for one or more passengers in vehicle .","In-vehicle mobile devices -, and mobile devices external to vehicle , may communicate with OBU  of communication system  through any wired or wireless communication link and may be configured as a personal area network (PAN) or a wireless personal area network (WPAN) or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network environment. Wired and wireless communication links may be inclusive of any electronic link such as Bluetooth, near-field communication (NFC), wireless technologies (e.g., IEEE 802.11x), a USB cable, an HDMI cable, etc. Connection between mobile devices and OBU  may be configured based on particular needs and logistics. In one particular example, an external mobile device may be connected to OBU  through a USB cable or wireless network when, for example, the external mobile device is a diagnostic tool used by a mechanic for servicing vehicle .","Network  represents nodes of interconnected communication paths for receiving and transmitting packets of information that propagate through communication system . Network  offers communicative interfaces between any of the components of  and remote network nodes (e.g., transaction systems , authorized entities , and other vehicles ), and may be any local area network (LAN), wireless local area network (WLAN), wide area network (WAN), wireless wide area network (WWAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), wireless metropolitan area network (WMAN), wireless single hop or multi-hop vehicle-to-vehicle network, virtual private network (VPN), Intranet, Extranet, or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network environment. Network  may include any suitable communication link to OBU  such as wireless technologies (e.g., IEEE 802.11x, 802.16, WiFi, WiMAX, near-field communication (NFC), DSRC, etc.), satellite, cellular technologies (e.g., 3G, 4G, LTE, GSM\/WCDMA\/HSPA, CDMA1x\/EVDO, etc.), etc., or any suitable combination thereof. Network  may also include configurations capable of TCP\/IP communications, UDP\/IP, or any other suitable protocol, where appropriate and based on particular needs.","In the particular example embodiment of , vehicle  includes capabilities associated with navigation system  and vehicle diagnostics . Navigation system  may be provided in various embodiments including, for example, a portable navigation system or, alternatively, a fixed navigation system, each of which may be configured for wireless or wired communications to OBU . Other more specific machine devices, not shown in , may include display panel instruments, climate controls, interior lights, door locks, trunk open\/shut actuator, hood open\/shut actuator, seat heater and\/or cooler, sunroof open\/shut actuator, window heater\/defroster\/defogger, entertainment systems (e.g., speakers, radio, DVD, CD, etc.), and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["206","206","222","224","226","226","226","228","226","200"]},"OBU  may further include a user application , a host stack , a mobility translator , a PSL engine , and an adaptive protection manager (APM) . Host stack  is generally comprised of a physical (PHY) layer , a link layer , a network layer , a transport layer , a PSL , and a message layer . To facilitate certain operations OBU  may also include various databases, such as a virtual socket API policy database  and configuration database . Such databases can be consolidated with memory elements (or vice versa), or the storage can overlap\/exist in any other suitable manner. Policy database  may be populated with virtual socket rules, for example. In some embodiments, a rule may consist of two parts: (i) a match pattern, and (ii) an action set to perform when a socket matches the pattern in (i). A match pattern may, for example, consist of L4 through L3 parameters (or a combination) such as a destination\/source IP address and port, L4 protocol type, L3 protocol type, etc. The action set can enable PSL  to modify L4 through L3 parameters and services for a socket, for example. Configuration database  may contain various system-wide polices, user preferences, and\/or application specific settings, for example.","Each layer in host stack  can use any coding scheme from a defined set. APM  is adapted to receive data protection requirements as input from applications and devices, such as user application , along with content data. Based on feedback received from each layer (denoted by dashed lines in ), APM  can calculate an optimum coding scheme for each layer to improve the probability of delivering data to its final destination, and can instruct each layer to perform the selected coding scheme. Thus, the data can be transformed as it flows through the different layers before being transmitted out through a radio interface, such as antenna .","Message layer can receive raw data generated by an application, such as user application , and can have the same context as the application. APM  may select a coding scheme that attempts to target or leverage specific features or patterns of the data to provide a better user experience. For example, when transmitting live video streams, I-frames can be protected more than other frames as they typically contain more information and provide a better user experience.","In transport layer and network layer , the context of input data is generally a packet of a fixed length, and APM  may select a coding scheme for these layers to improve the delivery probability of each packet to its destination, for example. Coding schemes such as path diversity, network coding, and multicast routing can be used to improve the delivery probability in various embodiments.","In link layer , the data context may also be a packet, but APM  may select a coding scheme to increase the delivery probability of a packet to an immediate neighbor in the routing path. Typical coding schemes may include forward error correction (FEC), Hybrid ARQ, etc.","The data context in PHY layer may be a stream of bits and the transformation from the stream of bits to analog symbols can be determined in this layer. Coding schemes at this layer may include gray codes, unequal error protection (UEP), bit interleaving\/scrambling, etc.","OBU  can include one or more memory elements (e.g., memory element ) for storing information to be used in achieving operations as outlined herein. OBU  may further keep information in any suitable memory element (e.g., random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), field programmable gate array (FPGA), erasable programmable read only memory (EPROM), electrically erasable programmable ROM (EEPROM), etc.), software, hardware, or in any other suitable component, device, element, or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. The information being tracked, sent, received, or stored in communication system  could be provided in any database, register, table, cache, queue, control list, or storage structure, based on particular needs and implementations, all of which could be referenced in any suitable timeframe. Any of the memory or storage items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term \u2018memory element\u2019 as used herein.","In one example implementation, communication system  may include software (e.g., as part of OBU , in-vehicle mobile devices -, etc.) to achieve or foster the operations outlined herein. In other embodiments, features may be provided externally to these elements, or included in some other network element to achieve this intended functionality. Alternatively, these elements include software (or reciprocating software) that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations, as outlined herein. In still other embodiments, one or all of these devices may include any suitable algorithms, hardware, software, components, modules, interfaces, or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.","In example embodiments, the operations outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media, which may be inclusive of non-transitory media (e.g., embedded logic provided in an ASIC, digital signal processor (DSP) instructions, software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine, etc.). In some of these instances, one or more memory elements (e.g., memory element ) can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory elements being able to store software, logic, code, or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this specification.","Additionally, OBU  may include processing elements, such as a processor , that can execute software or algorithms to perform the activities described herein. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed in this specification. In one example, the processor elements may transform an element or an article (e.g., data) from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example, the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic (e.g., software\/computer instructions executed by a processor) and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor, programmable digital logic (e.g., an FPGA, an EPROM, an EEPROM), or an ASIC that includes digital logic, software, code, electronic instructions, flash memory, optical disks, CD-ROMs, DVD ROMs, magnetic or optical cards, other types of machine-readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions, or any suitable combination thereof. Any of the potential processing elements, modules, microprocessors, digital signal processors (DSPs), and other devices described in this specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term \u2018processor.\u2019","Regarding a physical implementation of OBU , any suitable permutation may be applied based on particular needs and requirements, including the design of the particular vehicle in which OBU  is implemented. In example implementations, various components of OBU  may be installed in different physical areas of the vehicle or may be installed as single unit, with display  being positioned to allow driver access. Other displays may be provided in suitable locations for access by passengers in particular passenger seats. In one implementation, multimedia, networking, and communication components may be positioned at some distance from the vehicle engine (e.g., in or near the rear or trunk area if the engine is in the front area of the vehicle).","OBU  may be implemented to provide one or more suitable communication interfaces to legacy systems in vehicles such as, for example, a CAN, a low speed network (LIN), a flexray communications protocol network, media oriented systems transport (MOST), and the like. Typically, multiple ECUs, with different embedded software, may be found in a single automobile and may communicate via a CAN bus. Sensors -may represent, for example, wheel and headlight sensors, respectively. Controls -may be inclusive of any embedded system or ECU that controls one or more of the electrical systems or subsystems in vehicle . Actuator  represents a vehicle-setting device such as, for example, a seat positioning device for adjusting various seat positions (e.g., longitudinal position relative to the brake and gas pedals, tilt position, lumbar support, etc.). Actuator  and other similar vehicle setting devices (e.g., temperature controls, sunroof, door locks, power windows, etc.) may be configured for communications in a LIN bus, in one embodiment. Sensor represents a type of sensor or device that may be configured for communications via flexray communications protocol (e.g., a radar collision sensor). Control , representing one or more ECUs, may be suitably integrated for controlling the flexray network and sensors and other associated components. Additionally, OBU  may be implemented to provide one or more suitable communication interfaces (e.g., network interface ) to an Internet Protocol (IP) network, user datagram protocol (UDP) network, or any other suitable protocol or communication architecture provided to enable network communication with machine devices in vehicle .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","100","300","305","310","315","305","315","320","325","330","305","330","310","320","310","330","310","320","305"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","300","310","320","300","305","310","320","330","320","325"]},"Before discussing the details of sequence diagram , it should be noted that preliminary operations may be used to configure mobility translation system . For example, in certain embodiments, a mobility translator may identify a mobility scheme m supported by a mobile node. Mobility scheme m may be provided to a mobility translator a priori, may be inferred through packet inspection, or provided explicitly by a mobile node, for example. A set of mobility schemes N to support for a mobile node may also be determined, which can also be provided a priori or explicitly\/dynamically specified by a mobile node, for example. For each mobility scheme n in the mobility set N, a mobile node's control plane information for n may be identified. Such control plane information may include, for example, control entity information, security information, etc. The mobile node may then be registered in n's control plane, and the control plane may also be updated as needed, for example if the mobile node's location information (e.g., L3 address) changes. Similarly, a peer node's mobility scheme s may be determined to facilitate communication between the peer node and a mobile node. This information can be preconfigured in a mobility translator or via a mobility lookup service, for example.","Turning again to sequence diagram  for illustration, communication may be initiated by either MN  or P . If MN  initiates communication with P , MN  can assume that P  uses the mobility scheme m and attempt to look up P  in m's control plane at , using an L3 address, for example. MT  may intercept the lookup request and gather information about P  from the lookup request at . Using information gathered about P , MT  can retrieve control information for P  from CP  at -. MT  can construct a response to the lookup request at  and forward the response to MN  at . Conversely, if P  initiates communication with MN , P  can assume that MN  uses the mobility scheme s and look up MN  in control plane  at -. Note that if MT  determines that P  implements the same mobility scheme as MN  (i.e., mobility scheme m) or vice-versa, then MT  can simply relay control information.","Once MN  or P  initiate communication, MT  can set up a data plane  between MN  and P  on behalf of MN  at . MN  and P  can then exchange packets via MT  at . MT  intercepts and translates packets at . Translation may include, for example, removing mobility related headers and attaching new mobility headers conforming to mobility scheme m or s, as appropriate. MT  can also perform control plane operations on behalf of MN . If MN 's location information changes, for example, MT  can register the change with CP  as needed. Conversely, MT  can also process and track similar control plane updated from P  to MN .","Thus, for example, if MN  runs Mobile IPv6 and P  runs LISP-MN, MT  can provide mobility translation services for MN  such that MN  and P  can communicate. MT  can determine that MN  runs Mobile IPv6, such as by looking up MN  in a configuration table or inspecting packets originating or delivered to MN . To provide LISP-MN translation for MN , MT  can identify the LISP-MN related control plane information of MN . For example, MT  may be provisioned with a pool of endpoint identifiers (EIDs) and assign an EID from this pool to MN . Thus, MT  may also be aware of a corresponding LISP-MN map server and security credentials. MT  can register the LISP-MN EID assigned to MN  in a domain name system (DNS). The DNS may already have a record for MN  that maps MN  to its Mobile IPv6 home address and registration of another record for MN  (e.g., with MN 's LISP-MN EID) may modify the DNS record structure. MT  can also register MN  with a corresponding LISP-MN map server. If location information associated with MN  changes, MT  can update the map server with new information. MT  may further notify MN  about the change in location information so that MN  can send a secure binding update (secured via IPSEC) to its Mobile IPv6 home agent.","MN  can then assume that P  also runs Mobile IPv6 and initiate communication with P . More particularly, MN  can attempt to look up P  in the DNS, but MT  can intercept the look up request. MT  may retrieve P 's EID from the DNS and look up P  in the LISP-MN control plane. Using P 's location information from the LISP-MN control plane, MT  can respond to the look up request of MN  with location information associated with P .","MT  can also perform translation services in both the control plane and data plane on behalf of MN . For example, in certain embodiments, MT  can intercept data packets between MN  and P  and replace Mobile IPv6 tunnel headers or Mobile IPv6 options with corresponding LISP+UDP+IP headers on the forward direction and vice-versa on the reverse direction. MT  can also transmit necessary control plane updates to P  and process and track similar updates in the reverse direction.","Conversely, P  can also initiate communication with MN  and assume that MN  runs LISP-MN. P  can look up the EID assigned to MN  in the DNS and retrieve LISP-MN control plane information for MN . P  may then transmit packets to MN  via MT , while MT  can perform translation services in both control and data plane on behalf of MN .","Turning now to other example embodiments,  is a simplified flowchart  illustrating potential operations of one embodiment of a PSL. In this example, a legacy TCP client-server application may be running on hosts equipped with a PSL, and both client and server hosts support a more recent protocol, such as HIP. To provide multi-homing and mobility support (e.g., via HIP) for the legacy TCP application, a PSL rule can be setup in a policy database on the client host that provides a match pattern such as \u201cL4 Protocol=TCP, destination IP=DIP (and destination DNS name=DNAME), destination port=DPORT.\u201d A similar rule may be configured on the server host. A PSL action associated with this PSL rule may provide that a TCP connection should be replaced with a HIP association, for example.","A policy database may be dynamically configurable based on environmental (system-specific) factors, user preferences, or application-specific settings, for example. Thus, policy configurations can be used enable legacy applications to benefit from improved performance and\/or improved network efficiency via optimal choice of L4 through L3 features and services.","Thus, when the TCP application attempts a connect( ) call to the destination IP and port at , for example, the PSL can match the call to the PSL rule at  and retrieve the TCP socket ID (TS) from the connect( ) call at . At , a lookup table can be searched for TS. If no match is found, then DNS can be queried at  to retrieve HIP information (HIT) for the destination IP\/DNS name. The HIP information may also be queried and cached beforehand. For example, HIP information may be queried and cached when the rule is installed in the policy database. At , a HIP socket (HS) can be created and initialized. HS can be populated with information from TS and the TCP application's host HIP information at . A mapping between TS and HS can be stored in the lookup table at . A connect( ) call may then be invoked on HS at . A connect( ) call may also be invoked on HS at  if a match is found in the lookup table at , which implies that a corresponding HS has been previously setup, and the HS is retrieved at . When connect( ) on HS returns, the success or failure of the connect( ) call may be inferred at  and the result mapped to TS at . Assuming a successful connect( ) at , future socket API calls invoked on TS may be mapped to the corresponding calls on HS at . For example, a send( ) or recv( ) call on TS can be mapped to the corresponding calls on HS, relying on the lookup table for mappings.","A PSL implementation may be applied similarly to many L4 through L3 protocols and services with varying levels of granularity such that legacy applications can leverage a wide variety of L4 through L3 services to improve application performance, security, etc. Actions may result in a direct mapping of one socket to another, for example, or may result in mappings that are more complex where multiple sockets of one protocol are mapped to a single socket of another protocol. Example use cases are provided below to further illustrate a few of the potential applications of a PSL in accordance with this specification, but are not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. In general, the examples that follow assume that peer host is aware of and supports the actions, such as via a similar PSL implementation or L4 through L3 gateways\/proxies.","Thus, for example, a legacy TCP application can leverage a PSL to benefit from transport layer mobility, multi-homing, and fault-tolerance by using a match pattern as described above and replacing a single TCP connection with an SCTP or HIP association. The SCTP or HIP association can leverage multiple interfaces (e.g., 3G, Wi-Fi, etc.) at the source host.","In another example, UDP-based video flows and the network can be enabled to benefit from TCP-friendly rate control (TFRC) with a match pattern such as \u201cL4 Protocol=UDP, destination IP=DIP, destination port=DPORT.\u201d A single UDP flow can be replaced with a single DCCP connection having congestion control set to TFRC (DCCP CCID=3).","Multiple TCP connections to the same destination can also be enabled to benefit from transport layer streams. Transport streams (e.g., SCTP streams) are logical pipes within a transport connection. Each stream can have its own sequencing space and deliver data reliably and in-order, providing the same services to an application as a single TCP connection. Compared to multiple TCP connections, the different schemes can share ACK information and improve loss recovery and application response time in low bandwidth\/lossy wireless connections. A match pattern in such a use case may include \u201cL4 Protocol=TCP, destination IP=DIP, destination port=DPORT,\u201d and a single TCP connection can be mapped to a single SCTP stream, for example.","In yet another example use case, transport layer security can be enabled for UDP flows. A match pattern in such a case may include \u201cL4 Protocol=UDP, destination IP=DIP, destination port=DPORT,\u201d and an action may be configured to replace a single UDP flow with a single DTLS flow.","Certain applications can generate data that is valid for a specific duration (e.g., live video streaming). Once the lifetime expires, the data may no longer be considered useful to an application and transmission may be wasteful. Unlike TCP's reliable data transmission service, a partial reliability service can enable transmission just during the data's lifetime, and expired data can be discarded at the transport sender. Partial reliability can be enabled via a PSL for messages from a legacy TCP application. For example, using a match pattern such as \u201cL4 Protocol=TCP, destination IP=DIP, destination port=DPORT,\u201d a PSL can replace each TCP connection with an SCTP association and mark each application protocol data unit for partial reliability with a lifetime of 200 ms (PR-SCTP's timed-reliability feature).","Another use case may include enabling IPv6 for all TCP connections from a legacy IPv4 application. With a match pattern such as \u201cL4 Protocol=TCP, L3 Protocol=IPv4, destination IPv4=DIP4, destination DNS name=DNAME,\u201d for example, a single TCP\/IPv4 connection can be replaced with a single TCP\/IPv6 connection.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","100","602","604","606","608","610","602","604","602","606","604","608"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","100","602"]},"If protection requirements change at  or quality metrics change at , combinations of protection mechanisms can be evaluated at . End-to-end parameters can be negotiated at . For instance, end-to-end negotiation can occur between source and destination nodes with a focus on the message and transport\/network layers. Information on network topology and other supplementary information may be used to determine redundant paths at the transport\/network layers, for example. Topology-based coding schemes at the message layer, such as fountain codes, and other methods of improving probability of data delivery to a destination node may also be negotiated. End-to-end negotiation may include agreement between neighboring nodes on message layer parameters, such as the type of source coding, UEP, and network coding, and transport\/network layer parameters, such as the degree of path diversity and network coding, based on parameters such as tolerable delay or tolerable error rate.","If end-to-end negotiations are successful at , next-hop parameters can be negotiated at . For example, neighboring OBUs can negotiate parameters and focus on the PHY and Link layer coding scheme to improve data delivery probability at each hop from a source node to a destination node. Since channel conditions and potentially protocol\/modulation of the PHY and Link layer can change at every hop, this negotiation has to occur between all neighboring nodes in the path between the source and destination. One-hop negotiation may include, for example, agreement between neighboring nodes on PHY layer parameters such as modulation and coding schemes, scrambler patters, bit, interleaving schemes, transmitted power, etc., and Link layer parameters, such as type of FEC scheme and ARQ parameters, which may include type (e.g., conventional or hybrid) or maximum number of re-transmissions, for example.","If any negotiations are unsuccessful at  or , the combination of protection mechanisms may be evaluated again at . However, if negotiations are successful at  and , the flow may end.","An OBU may have multiple wireless interfaces (e.g., 3G, 4G, WiFi, etc.) with vastly different performance characteristics. Multiple layers of coding can be applied to maximize performance jointly across different links in accordance with this specification. For example, simply splitting a video flow across 3G and WiFi links can suffer delay dispersion, necessitating a large reordering buffer to deal with path delay and throughput disparity between the two links, which in turn can significantly increase end-to-end application delay. However, performance can be improved by applying multiple layers of coding, such as network coding combined with PHY layer coding, which may be applied as traffic passes through nodes such as a controller\/OBU pair. Moreover, selected coding schemes across multiple layers can be adapted to interface changes as a vehicle moves and an OBU connects to different networks. An optimal combination of coding and data protection schemes across different network layers, wireless networks, and different applications can be dynamically selected. An OBU may be particularly suited to perform such a selection since it can be the ingress and egress point for all in-vehicle communication devices.","Note that with the examples provided above, as well as numerous other examples provided herein, interaction may be described in terms of two, three, or four network elements. However, this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases, it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that network environment  (and its teachings) are readily scalable and can accommodate a large number of components, as well as more complicated\/sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly, the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of network environment  as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures. Additionally, although described with reference to particular scenarios, where a module is provided within the network elements, these modules can be provided externally, or consolidated and\/or combined in any suitable fashion. In certain instances, a module may be provided in a single proprietary unit.","It is also important to note that the steps in the appended diagrams illustrate only some of the possible signaling scenarios and patterns that may be executed by, or within, network environment . Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate, or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of teachings provided herein. In addition, a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with, or in parallel to, one or more additional operations. However, the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by network environment  in that any suitable arrangements, chronologies, configurations, and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings provided herein.","Numerous other changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and, additionally, any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto, Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant: (a) does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six (6) of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words \u201cmeans for\u201d or \u201cstep for\u201d are specifically used in the particular claims; and (b) does not intend, by any statement in the specification, to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["To provide a more complete understanding of the present disclosure and features and advantages thereof, reference is made to the following description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
