---
title: Methods and systems to facilitate providing spreadsheet and database data to users via a social network
abstract: A spreadsheet application platform facilitates accessing a spreadsheet stored using a spreadsheet database at a server computer. The spreadsheet application platform includes a computer-implemented social network, and a publisher may use the social network to publish a spreadsheet so that other users of the social network may subscribe to and access the spreadsheet's data. Further, a subscribed user may generate other spreadsheets that reference the publisher's spreadsheet via the application platform. When a stored value for a cell of the publisher's spreadsheet is updated at the spreadsheet database, the application platform may generate update requests for one or more target spreadsheet cells that reference the updated cell. An update request may indicate that a target cell is to be updated, and the application platform may process a plurality of update requests in parallel to update the stored values for a corresponding plurality of spreadsheet cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330080&OS=09330080&RS=09330080
owner: SAP SE
number: 09330080
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20110627
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS","Overview"],"p":["The present disclosure relates to enterprise applications. In an example embodiment, a spreadsheet application platform facilitates sharing spreadsheet and database data with users that subscribe to this data.","Members of an organization oftentimes use spreadsheets to represent data, and to communicate this data with other members of the organization. Spreadsheets can be used to generate data, for example, by using an expression within a spreadsheet cell. The spreadsheet may also generate charts and graphs to display a visualization for a trend or a segmentation in the spreadsheet data. Further, a user's spreadsheet may also import data from a reference document that is stored locally at the user's computing device. Unfortunately, when this reference document is missing at the user's local computing device, the spreadsheet may not present useful data to the user.","The user may share his spreadsheet data with a colleague by sending the spreadsheet document to the colleague either by providing the colleague with a storage device (e.g., a compact disc) that includes the spreadsheet document, or by sending the document to the colleague via a communication medium (e.g., an e-mail). However, if the user's colleague does not have a copy of the reference document stored at his local computing device, the colleagues computing device may not be able to display certain cells or charts of the spreadsheet. Moreover, if the user updates the spreadsheet document or the reference document at his computing device, the user's colleague may not be able to view the updated values until he receives a new copy of the spreadsheet document.","In some example embodiments, a spreadsheet application platform facilitates sharing spreadsheet data. The application platform may, for example, include a computer-implemented social network that can store a user's spreadsheet in a database at a server computer, and can make the spreadsheet's contents available to other users of the computer-implemented social network when they subscribe to the spreadsheet. Thus, a \u201cspreadsheet\u201d in this disclosure may include a collection of data stored in a database that may be gathered and presented to a user via a user interface at the user's client device (e.g., using a two-dimensional grid of data cells). For example, the spreadsheet's data may be stored in a single database table, or the spreadsheet's data may be joined from multiple database tables based on an expression associated with the spreadsheet.","In some example embodiments, a spreadsheet's representation may include a description for a two-dimensional grid of cells. This representation may include a description for how the stored value for a spreadsheet cell is to be updated at the database, and how the stored value may be retrieved from the database (e.g., using a database query, or using database parameters that are used to generate a database query for the spreadsheet cell). This representation may also include reference information for the spreadsheet cells. For example, the reference information may indicate a static reference that indicates the placement of this spreadsheet cell within the two dimensional grid of cells, and may indicate a logical reference that may be used by other spreadsheet cells (either from the same spreadsheet or from other spreadsheets) to reference this spreadsheet cell.","A publisher may publish the spreadsheet using the computer-implemented social network to advertise the spreadsheet to other users of the social network, or to make this spreadsheet available to other spreadsheets of the same publisher. Further, the publisher may also use the computer-implemented social network to recommend the spreadsheet to certain users of the social network. A user of the social network may then submit a subscription request for this spreadsheet via the social network, and the publisher may select an access level for this user.","Further, this subscribing user may also use the application platform to publish a spreadsheet that references one or more cells of the publisher's spreadsheet. When the server computer updates a stored value for a cell in the publisher's spreadsheet, the application platform may generate an update request for a target cell of the subscribing user's spreadsheet that references the updated cell. Further, the subscribing user may receive a notification from the computer-implemented social network indicating the update request for his spreadsheet, and the subscribing user may choose whether and\/or when to update his spreadsheet.","Example System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","104","106","110","104","104","1","104","2","104","3","104","110","106","104","102","108","108","104","110"],"i":"n"},"In some example embodiments, the user  may use the user interface  to access server-side functionality and data that may be provided by the enterprise application platform . For example, the user  may access a spreadsheet functionality of the enterprise application platform  to receive a spreadsheet , which may be displayed to the user  by the user interface  of the client device .","The enterprise application platform  (e.g., a combination of machines and software) may provide server-side functionality to the client device  via the network  (e.g., the Internet). The enterprise application platform  may include web servers  and Application Program Interface (API) servers , which are coupled to application servers , and may provide web and programmatic interfaces for the client device . The API servers  may, for example, implement a RESTful web service that conforms to the Representational State Transfer (REST) architecture, and may implement an Open Data Protocol (OData). In some example embodiments, the user  may use the web browser at the client device  to send a request to the web servers  for the spreadsheet , and the web servers  may respond to the client device  by providing a web page that includes the spreadsheet . As another example, the user  may use a client-side application (e.g., a spreadsheet application) that may interface with the API servers  to invoke a functionality provided by the application servers , and to send and\/or receive data from the database servers .","The application servers  may host domain applications , and are coupled to one or more databases servers  (e.g., via the network ) that facilitate access to the database . Further, the web servers , API servers , application servers , and database servers  may host cross-functional services -. In some example embodiments, the cross-functional services - may provide services for users and\/or applications of the enterprise application platform  (e.g., for the client device  and\/or the domain applications ). For instance the cross-functional services - may provide portal services (e.g., web services), database services, and connectivity to the domain applications  for the user  of the client device . In addition, the cross-functional services - may provide a platform for delivering enhancements to existing applications (e.g., functional enhancements to an application at the client device , or to the domain applications ), and a platform for integrating third party and legacy applications (e.g., a third party application server) with the domain applications .","While the system  shown in  employs a client-server architecture, the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture, and could equally well find application in a distributed, or peer-to-peer, architecture system.","Example Spreadsheet Access","In some example embodiments, an entity (e.g., an individual or an organization) may use the enterprise application platform  to share a spreadsheet (or a subset of cells from the spreadsheet) with other entities that may use the spreadsheet data within their own spreadsheets. For example, entities may use the shared information to generate aggregated data that spans various groups or organizations (e.g., state census data that is gathered from a plurality of counties), to generate statistical data for a research project (e.g., cancer survival rates across various demographic categories), to verify account information that reflects transactions across partnering institutions (e.g., business-to-business sales transactions), and\/or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","110","200"]},"The spreadsheet may include cells that have static data (e.g., the cell ). This static data may include a number, a date, a phrase, or the like. The spreadsheet may also include cells that have an expression that references one or more other cells (e.g., a target cell). The term \u201ctarget cell\u201d is hereby used to describe a cell that includes a reference to another cell, and may receive data updates from this referenced cell. In some example embodiments, the database  may store a record that includes the latest value for an individual cell of a spreadsheet. Furthermore, in some example embodiments, the enterprise application platform  may not update the record for the cell until the spreadsheet owner has chosen to update the cell. For example, a target cell may include an expression that may be used to compute a value from one or more other cells (e.g., the target cell  computes a value from the reference cells  and ) and, when at least one of the reference cells has been updated, the spreadsheet owner may decide whether to update the record with a new computed value.","In some example embodiments, a spreadsheet owner may allow other entities to view certain cells of his spreadsheet as a way to share selective information with these entities. For example, the enterprise application platform  may provide the user  with a user interface  that allows the user  to submit a subscription request for a cell of the spreadsheet (or to the spreadsheet as a whole). Furthermore, the enterprise application platform  may subscribe the user  to this spreadsheet cell when the spreadsheet owner accepts the subscription request, and\/or when the user  pays a subscription fee that that the spreadsheet owner has chosen for this cell.","The subscription request may indicate a level of access that the user  is requesting for the spreadsheet cell. In some example embodiments, the level of access for a spreadsheet cell may include a read-write access, a read-only access, and a results-only access. The read-write access may allow a subscribed user to read and to modify the expression and\/or the stored value for the spreadsheet cell. The read-only access may allow the subscribed user to read the expression and the stored value for the spreadsheet cell, but may not allow the subscribed user to edit the expression nor the stored value for the spreadsheet cell. Further, the results-only spreadsheet cell may allow the subscribed user to read the stored value for the spreadsheet cell, but may not allow the subscribed user to read the expression for the spreadsheet cell, and may not allow the subscribed value to modify the expression nor the stored value for the spreadsheet cell. In some example embodiments, only one user may have read-write access to the spreadsheet at any point in time. Thus, for example, the subscription request from the user  may indicate a request for a read-only access or a results-only access, but may not indicate a request for a read-write access.","In some example embodiments, the enterprise application platform  may use the subscription information from a user to determine whether the cells that he owns have sufficient access to obtain a stored value from other cells that they reference. Thus, this subscription information allows a publisher to share spreadsheet information with others based on subscriptions to selected cells, and allows this publisher to modify the access levels for his subscribers as necessary.","For illustration purposes, the spreadsheet  may be associated with a government agency that subscribes to spreadsheets owned by various publicly-traded companies to aggregate and report revenue information from these companies. Further, the spreadsheets  and  may be associated with separate companies that have given the government agency a results-only permission to their finance-related spreadsheets. The government agency may use the enterprise application platform  to update the data in the spreadsheet  at the start of a fiscal quarter to obtain quarterly revenue reports.","Spreadsheet  may, for example, correspond to a profit and loss spreadsheet for the General Motors Company. Further, column  may correspond to profit information across various divisions, and its cells may obtain their data from the spreadsheets - that are owned by managers of these separate divisions. The cell  may obtain its value directly from cell  of the spreadsheet  that, for example, includes profit information from licensing agreements with other companies. As a further example, the cell  may include profit information from car sales across all car models, and thus the cell  may include an expression that computes a value from cells  and  (of the spreadsheets  and , respectively) that may indicate sales profit numbers for these various car models.","Spreadsheet  may, for example, correspond to a profit and loss spreadsheet for the Bridgestone Corporation, and column  may correspond to profit information that is being made available to the government agency. The cell  may obtain its value directly from the cell  of the spreadsheet  that, for example, includes sales profit information. Moreover, the cell  may obtain its information from the cell  of the spreadsheet  that, for example, may include sales information for a variety of customer accounts. For example, the cell  may include sales information that is being made available to the General Motors Company as a customer, and thus the Bridgestone Corporation may assign, to the General Motors Company, results-only access to the cell .","As a further example, the cell  (that may be assigned to the General Motors Company) may include an expression that references a cell of one or more other companies (e.g., to verify numbers from a business partner's spreadsheet). Thus, as an example, the cell  may include an expression that uses the sales data obtained from the cell  (that may be assigned to the Bridgestone Corporation) to verify the tire-related expenses for a certain car model throughout a previous fiscal quarter or fiscal year when computing the profits for that car model.","In some example embodiments, a reference to a spreadsheet cell may include a static reference that indicates a cell within a spreadsheet, or may include a logical reference (e.g., an alphanumeric identifier) that may be used within an expression to reference this spreadsheet cell. The logical reference may be, for example, a unique identifier that is selected for the spreadsheet cell by the enterprise application platform , or may be a name that has been selected for the spreadsheet cell by the spreadsheet's owner (which may or may not be a unique identifier). If the spreadsheet owner has indicated a name for the spreadsheet cell (e.g., by using a cell editor of the user interface  shown in ), the enterprise application platform  may associate the cell's name with a namespace attributed to this spreadsheet owner. The enterprise application platform  may use a plurality namespaces for a plurality of spreadsheet owners to facilitate differentiating between spreadsheet cells of the same name from different spreadsheet owners.","The database  may store, for a spreadsheet owner, cell aliases that the spreadsheet owner may use as references to spreadsheet cells. Thus, for example, if the spreadsheet owner is subscribed to two spreadsheet cells with the same name from different namespaces, the spreadsheet owner may indicate an alias to a same-name spreadsheet cell. Then, the spreadsheet owner may use this alias to reference the same-name spreadsheet cell (e.g., within an expression) as an alternative to explicitly indicating the namespace and cell name to this spreadsheet cell.","Some spreadsheet owners may desire to generate a spreadsheet that aggregates data from other spreadsheet cells that satisfy a condition. In some example embodiments, the enterprise application platform  may extract a database query from a cell's expression, and may process the database query to determine a value for the spreadsheet cell. Thus, the spreadsheet owner may create an expression for a spreadsheet cell that includes a database query. This database query may, for example, include search parameters for a column heading or a row heading for a table within a spreadsheet, and\/or may include search parameters for a property of a spreadsheet cell. The property may indicate, for example, descriptive text that has been attributed to the spreadsheet cell, a modification date (e.g., the last date at which the cell's expression was modified), a refresh date (e.g., the last date at which the cell's stored value was updated), a logical name for the cell's spreadsheet, the spreadsheet owner, and\/or the like. Further, the database query may also indicate a sort parameter that indicates how the search results are to be sorted.","The enterprise application platform  may process the search query by using the database servers  to search through a collection of spreadsheets (or individual spreadsheet cells) to which the spreadsheet owner is subscribed. Further, the database servers  may also search through other spreadsheets that have been made public by their respective spreadsheet owners. In some example embodiments, the expression of the spreadsheet cell may explicitly indicate how multiple search results are to be handled. For example, the expression may indicate that the first value of the search result is to be used to compute an updated value of the spreadsheet cell. As another example, the expression may indicate that a value is to be generated from the collection of search results (e.g., a summation, a product, or a statistical value such as a median value or a standard deviation). If the expression does not indicate how multiple search results are to be handled, the enterprise application platform  may select a determinable value from the search results (e.g., may select the first value from the search results).","In some other example embodiments, the spreadsheet owner may indicate that the results of the expression are to be presented over an area of the spreadsheet. For example, the spreadsheet owner may associate a set of neighboring cells with the expression, and the expression may include a search query that results in multiple search results. Then, the enterprise application platform  may iterate through these cells and the search results to compute values for individual cells.","Example Spreadsheet Processing","In some example embodiments, the enterprise application platform  may propagate cell data through a plurality of cells in the spreadsheet collection . For example, the user  may have access to view the spreadsheet , and may request that an updated value be computed for the cell . Then, in response to this request, the enterprise application platform  may access the cells  and  to obtain their stored values, and may compute an updated value for the cell  based on these stored values. Further, when the owner of the cell  updates its value, the enterprise application platform  may generate an update request for the cell .","As another example, if the user  owns spreadsheet  and the user  enters an updated value into the cell  of the spreadsheet , the enterprise application platform  may generate an update request for the target cell  to notify the owner of the spreadsheet  of the updated value. Then as the owners for other target cells receive and accept update requests, the updated values may propagate through other cells of the spreadsheet collection  that are associated with the cell  through a web of references (e.g., the bold dashed arrows of ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","110","300","302","102","104","242","216","110","238","212","232","206"]},"At operation , the method  may use the database server  to store the updated value. For example, the database server  may store a record for the updated cell in the database  so that the stored record includes the updated value and includes a reference to the updated cell (e.g., a reference to the cell  of the spreadsheet ). At operation , the method  may determine at least one target cell that references the updated spreadsheet cell. The target cell may be of the same spreadsheet as the updated cell, or may be of a different spreadsheet. Then, at operation , the method  may generate update requests indicating that the target cells are to be updated. As an example, if an updated value is stored for the cell  of the spreadsheet , the method  may generate an update request indicating that the cell  of the spreadsheet  is to be updated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","110","400","402","400","104","110"]},"In some example embodiments, when the method  receives the update request for the target cell that is to be updated, the enterprise application platform  may notify the owner of the target cell that this spreadsheet cell is ready to be updated. For example, if the user  uses a web browser on the client device  to view the spreadsheet , and an update request exists for a cell of the spreadsheet , the web servers  may generate a user interface  that includes a notification that the cell is ready to be updated, or the web browser may receive the notification for this cell from the API servers  (e.g., via an asynchronous request to the API server ). Also, if the user  uses a native application of the client device  (e.g., a spreadsheet application), the native application may receive the notification from the API servers  via a server push technology or a client pull technology.","In some example embodiments, the notification may include a display element that represents the update request (e.g., a button or a flag), and that may be displayed next to the cell in the user interface . The user may use an input device of the client device  to click on this display element (e.g., a keyboard button, a mouse, a touch pad, a touch screen, and\/or the like), at which point the client device  may use the web servers  and\/or the API servers  to notify the enterprise application platform  that the owner of the target cell has accepted the update request for the spreadsheet cell.","At operation , the method  may determine whether the owner of the spreadsheet has accepted the update request. If the method  determines that the owner of the spreadsheet has not accepted the update request, the method  may return to operation  to wait for the owner to accept the updated request. However, if the method  determines that the owner has accepted the update request, the method  may continue to operation  to determine one or more reference cells that are referenced by the cell being updated. Then, at operation , the method  may determine the stored values for the one or more referenced cells. At operation , the method  may compute an updated value for the selected cell based on the expression for the target cell and the stored values for the one or more reference cells.","At operation , the method  may determine whether the stored value for the selected cell has changed (e.g., whether the updated value for the selected cell is different than its stored value). If the method  determines that the value for the selected cell has not changed, the method  may end to avoid generating unnecessary update requests. Otherwise, if the method  determines that the value for the selected cell has changed, the method  may continue to operation  to store the updated value for the selected cell in the database  (e.g., in a record of the database  that includes a reference to the selected cell).","At operation , the method  may determine whether the selected cell is referenced by any other cells. If the method  determines that no other cells reference the selected cell, the method  may end. Otherwise, if it is referenced by other cells (by target cells), the method  may continue to operation  to determine at least one target cell that references the selected cell. The target cells may be of the same spreadsheet as the selected cell and\/or they may be of a different spreadsheet. Then, at operation , the method  may generate update requests for individual target cells indicating that these target cells are to be updated.","In some example embodiments, the enterprise application platform  may compute an updated value for a plurality of spreadsheet cells in parallel. For example, the enterprise application platform  may use a concurrent programming language (e.g., the Scala programming language) to process a plurality of update requests (e.g., operations - of ) using a plurality of computing devices. The enterprise application platform  may, for example, create objects (e.g., using a Scala object) to represent spreadsheet cells that are stored at the database . Further, the enterprise application platform  may use a plurality of cell objects to compute updated values, in parallel, for a corresponding plurality of spreadsheet cells.","A cell object may include an identifier for a spreadsheet cell, a stored value for the spreadsheet cell, an expression of the spreadsheet cell that is used to compute an updated value for the cell, identifiers to other cells that are referenced by (and\/or that include a reference for) the spreadsheet cell, and\/or the like. The cell object may also include variables that facilitate the concurrent processing of update requests. For example, the cell object may include references to other cell objects that represent other related cells (e.g., other cells that reference, or are referenced by, the cell object's spreadsheet cell). Further, the cell object may use these cell object references to send and\/or receive messages to\/from these other cell objects, which facilitates propagating a cell's updated value to other related spreadsheet cells.","In some example embodiments, the enterprise application platform  may use the concurrent programming language (e.g., Scala) at the application servers  to create a first cell object (e.g., at operation ) for a spreadsheet cell that is to be updated (e.g., for the cell  of ), and to create a second cell object (e.g., at operations -) for a spreadsheet cell that is being referenced by the spreadsheet cell that is to be updated (e.g., for the cell  of ). Then, at operation , the second cell object may send the stored value (e.g., using asynchronous message-passing) for the referenced spreadsheet cell to the first cell object that computes the updated value for the spreadsheet cell that is to be updated.","Further, in some example embodiments, the second cell object may also send a message to the first cell object when the stored value for the referenced cell is updated at the database . In some example implementations, the enterprise application platform  may use the concurrent programming language (e.g., Scala) at the database servers  to create a cell object for the referenced cell when its stored value is updated, and this cell object may send a message to the first cell object to compute an updated value for its spreadsheet cell.","Example Aggregate Spreadsheets","In some example embodiments, the spreadsheet collection  may correspond to various spreadsheets that are assigned to individuals of an organization. For example, the spreadsheet  may correspond to a sales director, and the spreadsheets - may correspond to various salesmen. The individual members of the organization may update their respective spreadsheets (e.g., the owner of the spreadsheet  may update the cell ), and they may view other spreadsheets of the group (e.g., the owner of the spreadsheet  may view the spreadsheets -). Further, in some example embodiments, the individual members may not edit the spreadsheets that they do not own (e.g., the owner of the spreadsheet  may not update the spreadsheet  if he does not own it).","In further example embodiments, a spreadsheet of the spreadsheet collection  may be an aggregate spreadsheet that aggregates data from other spreadsheets in the spreadsheet collection . For example, the spreadsheet  may be an aggregate spreadsheet that represents salesmen in the United States, and thus it may aggregate data from the spreadsheets - that may be owned by domestic salesmen. Also, the spreadsheet  may be another aggregate spreadsheet that represents salesmen from outside of the United States, and thus it may aggregate data from the spreadsheets - that may be owned by foreign salesmen.","Recall that in some example embodiments, a spreadsheet may be edited by at most one person (e.g., the spreadsheet owner). However, as an organization grows, it oftentimes becomes necessary to distribute certain responsibilities across multiple individuals. For example, if the spreadsheet  represents the west coast of the United States, it may become necessary for the organization to assign more than one salesmen as the popularity for the organization's products increases. This, however, may require multiple salesmen to enter sales data into the spreadsheet . In some example embodiments, the enterprise application platform  may distribute the ownership for cells of a spreadsheet to multiple users by partition the spreadsheet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","110","500","502","504","500","506","500"]},"At operation , the method  may generate a second spreadsheet that includes a copy of the first set of cells. The method  may assign the second spreadsheet to the first user at operation . Further, at operation , the method  may generate a third spreadsheet that includes a copy of the second set of cells. The method may assign the third spreadsheet to the second user at operation .","At operation , the method  may generate an aggregate spreadsheet, based on the first spreadsheet, so that it references cells in the second spreadsheet and the third spreadsheet. For example, the aggregate spreadsheet may have the same structure and cell values as the first spreadsheet, but may obtain its values from corresponding cells in the second and third spreadsheets. Then, at operation , the method  may assign the aggregate spreadsheet to an administrator (e.g., a supervisor of the first and second users).","In some example embodiments, the second spreadsheet (or the third spreadsheet) may also have the same structure and data values as the first spreadsheet, but the cells that are not owned by the first user (or the second user) may obtain their values from corresponding cells of the aggregate spreadsheet (e.g., using cell references). In other example embodiments, the second spreadsheet (or the third spreadsheet) may have a similar structure as the first spreadsheet, but may not include the cells that are not owned by the first user (or second user). For example, the excluded cells may be left blank in the spreadsheet, or a row (or column) may be excluded if the row (or column) becomes empty after excluding cells from the spreadsheet.","In some example embodiments, at operations  and , the method  may generate the aggregate spreadsheet by modifying the first spreadsheet so that it references cells in the second and the third spreadsheets, and the method  may assign the first spreadsheet (as the aggregate spreadsheet) to the administrator. The method  may also generate the aggregate spreadsheet using other variations of the operations - that produce a combination of spreadsheets, cell references, and spreadsheet owner assignments that are similar to those of which are produced by the operations -.","Example Computer-Implemented Social Network","In some example embodiments, a user may publish a spreadsheet using a computer-implemented social network. This social network may be implemented using the enterprise application platform  and, accordingly, is described by way of example with reference thereto. For example, the user  may use the client device  to receive a web application for the social network from the web servers , and a web browser on the client device  may present this web application to the user . Further, the web application on the client device  may send and\/or receive information to\/from the social network via the web servers  and\/or the API servers . As another example, the client device  may include a native application that may send and\/or receive information to\/from the online social network via the web servers  and\/or the API servers .","The enterprise application platform  may store user profile information in the database  for a number of users of the social network, and may store relationship information for these users. The relationship information for an individual user of the social network may indicate a set of first-degree friends that the user has confirmed a direct relationship with. Further, the social network (e.g., executing on the application servers ) may use the relationship information for a plurality of users to determine a relationship graph for the plurality of users, and may use the database servers  to store the relationship graph on the database . The online social network may also use the database servers  to process search queries to determine the user's Ndegree friends (e.g., other users of the social network with at most an Ndegree of separation with the user). The online social network may determine a separation, N, between the user and an Ndegree friend by determining a minimum number of members in the social graph that form a path between the user and the Ndegree friend.","In some example embodiments, the user's profile information may indicate a job title for the user, a group affiliation within the organization, a list of projects which the user has participated in, a list of projects that the user is involved in, and\/or the like. Further, the user's profile information may also indicate personal information that only select users may have access to. For example, the user's relationship information may include a list of \u201cfriends\u201d that the user has given direct access to his personal information. The user may use a user interface on the client device  to assign a certain first-degree friend with access to his personal information, or may indicate that other users of at most an Ndegree of separation (as determined by the social graph) are allowed access to his personal information (e.g., the user may indicate an explicit value for N, or may select an option from a control panel of the user interface that indicates a determinable value for N).","The relationship information may also include the user's relationship (as indicated by an organization chart) with other members of the organization. For example, the relationship information may include a list of first-degree colleagues that are directly associated with the user within the organization, as well as the type of relationship that the first degree colleague has with the user. Further, a first-degree colleague may be a co-worker within a company group, a direct supervisor, an employee or assistant, an intern, a contractor, and\/or the like. The relationship information may also include Ndegree colleagues that are members of the organization but are not directly associated with the user within the organization. The online social network may determine the separation, N, between the user and an Ndegree colleague by determining a minimum number of members of the organization that form a path between the user and the Ndegree colleague.","In some example embodiments, the user may publish a spreadsheet using the online social network for access by the user's friends, the user's colleagues, and\/or for access by other users of the social network. For example, the spreadsheet collection  may include spreadsheets that multiple users of the online social network have published using the social network. The owner of a spreadsheet (e.g., the spreadsheet ) may use the social network to allow a subscribing user to view this spreadsheet, or a subset of cells of this spreadsheet. Further, as an example, the owner of the spreadsheet  may subscribe to the spreadsheet  to have read-only access or results-only access to the cell  of the spreadsheet . When the owner of the spreadsheet  receives the read-only access or the results-only access to the cell , he may update the spreadsheet  so that the cell  includes an expression that references the cell  of the spreadsheet . In some example embodiments, the owner of the spreadsheet  may use a user interface on the client device  to assign an access level to other users of the social network (e.g., to assign results-only access to the owner of the spreadsheet ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","110","600","602","244","206","232","206","212","232","206"]},"In some example embodiments, the permission information may indicate a permission that is to be attributed to any user that has a certain relationship with the publisher (as determined by the relationship graph of the online social network). For example, the publisher may create a spreadsheet that includes sensitive information for a project that the publisher is working on. The publisher may allow results-only access to certain cells of the spreadsheet to first-degree colleagues, and may allow read-only access to these cells to a supervisor of any degree. This allows the colleagues to view the results without obtaining sensitive computation information. Also, this allows the publisher's supervisors to view the results, as well as to observe and to double-check the computations that the publisher is using to generate the results. As another example, the publisher may create a spreadsheet to manage his schedule, and may allow results-only access to this spreadsheet to friends that are up to 2degree friends. This spreadsheet may, for example, indicate calendar information for the publisher's work schedule, the publisher's travel schedule and itinerary, and\/or the like.","At operation , the method  may publish at least the spreadsheet cell indicated by the publishing request, using the computer-implemented social network, and based on the publication request. In doing so, the enterprise application platform  may use the database servers  to update the publisher's profile information in the database  so that it includes the permission information of the publication request. In some example embodiments, the enterprise application platform  may also update the profile information for a user that the publisher has allowed access to the published cell so that this user's profile information indicates that he has access to the published cell.","At operation , the method  may determine a target cell of a second spreadsheet that references the published cell of the publisher's spreadsheet. The target cell may be associated with another user of the online social network that may or may not have a direct association with the publisher. Then, at operation , the method  may determine whether the other user has access to read the published cell (e.g., as determined from the publisher's profile information, or from the other user's profile information). If the method  determines that the other user has access, the method  may continue to operation  to allow the target cell's stored value to be updated based on the published cell's stored value (e.g., by allowing the enterprise application platform  to compute an updated value for the target cell based on an expression of the target cell that references the published cell). However, if the method  determines that the other user does not have access to the published cell, then the method may continue to operation  to deny the target cell's value from being updated based on the published cell's stored value. Thus, the permission attributed to the other user, as indicated by the social network, is used to determine whether a cell that is owned by the other user may reference the published cell.","In some example embodiments, the user  may use the client device  to access spreadsheet information that has been stored in the database , and the enterprise application platform  may provide this spreadsheet information to the user  using a spreadsheet template that is customized for the display capabilities of the client device . Further, the application servers  may implement location-based services. For example, the enterprise application platform  may filter the spreadsheet information in the database  based on location information of the client device  so that the spreadsheet information presented to the user  includes data that is relevant to the location information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","110","700","702","104","102","104","104","700","102","700","102","102","700","102"]},"At operation , the method  may determine display capabilities of the client device (e.g., based on the access request). Then, at operation , the method  may select a spreadsheet template based on the display capabilities for the client device . In some example embodiments, the layout for this spreadsheet template is customized for the display capabilities of the client computing device. For example, the spreadsheet template may have been created by the owner of the spreadsheet, and stored in the database . As another example, the spreadsheet template may be created automatically (without human intervention) by the enterprise application platform  for the client computing device .","As an example, the client device  may be a smart phone with a display of dimensions 960 pixels by 640 pixels, and the selected spreadsheet template may be a compact template that is customized for a display that has minimum dimensions of 480 pixels by 320 pixels. Thus, the selected spreadsheet template may be displayed within the display of the client device . As another example, client device  may be a tablet computing device with display dimensions 1024 pixels by 768 pixels, which may also display the selected spreadsheet template within the screen. However, for the tablet computing device, the method  may select an expanded spreadsheet template that includes more columns than the compact template, and thus is customized for a display that has minimum dimensions 1024 pixels by 640 pixels.","At operation , the method  may select data elements of the spreadsheet that are associated with the location data for the client device . For example, the user may be a real estate agent that is showing properties to a client, and the spreadsheet data may include a plurality of columns that include property listings for a plurality of cities in the United States. Thus, to provide the real estate agent with the most relevant information, the method  may select a subset of the spreadsheet's columns that include property listings for cities that are close to the real estate agent's current location. Then, at operation , the method  may provide the selected data elements of the spreadsheet to the client computing device  using the selected spreadsheet template.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","802","804","806","808","810","812","802","812","800","802","812","800","800"]},"The interface module  may generate a GUI and\/or a text-based user interface to interact with the user. For example, the interface module  may generate a web page for the client device  that implements the user interface  using a combination of scripting technologies such as HTML, JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheet (CSS), ActionScript, and\/or the like. This web page may include the spreadsheet , and may include client-side instructions that are executed by the client device  to facilitate editing the spreadsheet , and to facilitate communicating with the web servers  and\/or the API servers .","The communication module  may receive an update request indicating that the user's spreadsheet cell is to be updated, and may use the interface module  to notify the user that the spreadsheet cell may need to be updated. In some example embodiments, the communication module  may generate the update request for the user's spreadsheet cell when it receives an updated value for a cell that is referenced by the user's spreadsheet cell.","The data access module  may determine that the user's spreadsheet cell references one or more other cells, and may use the store module  to determine a stored value for a referenced cell. Further, the computing module  may compute an updated value for the user's spreadsheet cell based on the stored values for the referenced cells, and may use the store module  to store the updated value for the user's spreadsheet cell. The computing module  may also generate an update request for other cells that reference the updated cell, and may provide this update request to the communication mechanism .","The profile-managing module  may manage a profile for a user of the computer-implemented social network. For example, the profile-managing module  may update the user's association with other members of the online social network based on friend requests and friend confirmations from the user and\/or the other members. Further, the profile-managing module  may update a description for the user's role within an organization based on an organization graph that is received from an entity of the organization (e.g., a representative or manager of the organization), or based on organization-related information that is provided directly by the user and\/or other members of the social network. The profile-managing module  may also attribute the user with access to a plurality of spreadsheet cells to which the user subscribes.","Example Computer System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","900","900","900"]},"In a network deployment, the computer system  may operate in the capacity of a server or a client system in server-client network environment, or as a peer computer system in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment. For example, the computer system  may correspond to the client device  (e.g., the smart phone device .), or may correspond to a server of the enterprise application platform  (e.g., an application server ). Further, while a single computer system is illustrated, the term \u201csystem\u201d shall also be taken to include any collection of systems that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of electronically-coded instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. The system may, for example, include a cloud computing landscape comprising a plurality of multiprocessor servers, where the system may adapt the computing resources (e.g., a number of processors, server memory, disk storage, network bandwidth, and the like) used by a web application based on the resource demands of the web application and\/or based on a request from a developer of the web application.","The example computer system  may includes a processor  (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), or any combination thereof), a main memory , and a static memory , which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system  may further include a video display unit  (e.g., liquid crystals display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)). The computer system  also includes an input device  (e.g., a keyboard or a touch-screen interface of the display unit ), a cursor control device  (e.g., a mouse or the touch-screen interface), a disk drive unit , a signal generation device  (e.g., a speaker) and a network interface device .","The disk drive unit  may include a machine-readable medium  on which is stored one or more sets of electronically-coded instructions (e.g., software ) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions  may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory , the static memory , and\/or within the processor  during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory  and the processor  also may constitute machine-readable media.","The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, optical and magnetic media, and\/or the like.","The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments, and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom, such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments, it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure is illustrated by way of example, and not limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals indicate similar elements unless otherwise indicated. In the drawings,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
