---
title: Method and system for using machine-readable codes to maintain environmental impact preferences
abstract: One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and associated processes for monitoring a customer's product purchases and product consumption. Further, the system enables the customer to maintain customer-selected preferences by presenting to the customer product information associated with the customer preferences and a product. In one embodiment, the system can monitor the consumption of products over a predefined period of time to facilitate the customer maintaining the customer preferences over the predefined period of time. In one embodiment, the system can present alternative product purchases based on a selected product and the customer preferences. In one embodiment, the system can facilitate monitoring nutrition consumption. In one embodiment, the system can facilitate monitoring pharmaceutical use. In one embodiment, the system can facilitate the customer making environmentally conscious purchases. In one embodiment, the system can present the customer with environmental offset options to help maintain customer environmental preferences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08418915&OS=08418915&RS=08418915
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08418915
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110428
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS","Introduction"],"p":["This application is related to the following applications, the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0003","num":"0002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["application Ser. No.","Filing Date","Title"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["13\/096,812","Apr. 28, 2011","METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR"]},{"entry":[{},{},"USING MACHINE-READABLE"]},{"entry":[{},{},"CODES TO PERFORM A"]},{"entry":[{},{},"TRANSACTION"]},{"entry":["13\/096,863","Apr. 28, 2011","METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR"]},{"entry":[{},{},"PRODUCT RESTOCKING USING "]},{"entry":[{},{},"MACHINE-READABLE CODES"]},{"entry":["13\/096,897","Apr. 28, 2011","METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR"]},{"entry":[{},{},"USING MACHINE-READABLE"]},{"entry":[{},{},"CODES TO PERFORM"]},{"entry":[{},{},"TRANSACTIONS"]},{"entry":["13\/096,855","Apr. 28, 2011","METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR"]},{"entry":[{},{},"USING MACHINE-READABLE"]},{"entry":[{},{},"CODES TO TRACK CONSUMPTION"]},{"entry":["13\/096,804","Apr. 28, 2011","METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR"]},{"entry":[{},{},"USING MACHINE-READABLE"]},{"entry":[{},{},"CODES TO IDENTIFY"]},{"entry":[{},{},"PHARMACEUTICAL"]},{"entry":[{},{},"INTERACTIONS"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Machine-readable codes, such as barcodes and matrix barcodes, can be used to encode or represent data. These machine-readable codes can be read or scanned by specially designed optical scanners, i.e. barcode readers. Originally, machine-readable codes were limited in application due to the small amount of data that could be encoded. Further, the need for special optical scanners also limited the environments that could use machine-readable codes.","Today, technology has advanced such that machine-readable codes can be used to encode a much greater amount of information than the original linear barcodes. Further, it is now possible to use digital cameras to read barcodes. These digital cameras have become almost ubiquitous thanks in large part to the number of mobile phones that come equipped with cameras. Thus, the potential uses for machine-readable codes have also greatly increased.","One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and associated processes for monitoring a customer's product purchases and product consumption. Further, the system enables the customer to maintain customer-selected preferences by presenting to the customer product information associated with the customer preferences and a product. In one embodiment, the system can monitor the consumption of products over a predefined period of time to facilitate the customer maintaining the customer preferences over the predefined period of time. Further, the system can present alternative product purchases based on a selected product and the customer preferences. In one embodiment, the system can facilitate monitoring nutrition consumption. Additionally, or alternatively, the system can facilitate monitoring pharmaceutical use. The system can also facilitate the customer making environmentally conscious purchases. Moreover, the system can present the customer with environmental offset options to help maintain customer environmental preferences.","Example Consumer Conscious Shopping Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"The consumer conscious shopping environment  includes a shopping environment  that represents any provider of a product  or service. For example, the shopping environment  can be a clothing store, a grocery store, an electronics store, a pharmacy, a dry cleaner, or a car mechanic, to name a few. To simplify discussion, the rest of this disclosure will describe the shopping environment  as a product provider. Generally, the shopping environment  represents a brick-and-mortar store. However, in some embodiments, the shopping environment  can be an Internet-based store or ecommerce website. Further, in some embodiments, the shopping environment  can represent a product provider associated with both a brick-and-mortar store and an Internet-based store. In one embodiment, the shopping environment is a consumption environment. The consumption environment can include any environment where a customer  may consume or use a product . For example, the consumption environment can be the customer's  residence or workplace.","The product  can represent any type of product that the customer  is considering purchasing or consuming, or has already purchased or consumed. Further, the product  can be associated with one or more characteristics that the customer  is tracking, or that impacts the customer's  purchase or consumption decision. For example, if the customer  is tracking nutrition consumption, the product  can represent a food item. If the customer  is tracking pharmaceutical use, the product  can represent a pharmaceutical. Further, if the customer  is attempting to reduce his or her environmental footprint, the product  can represent any product that has an impact on the environment. For example, the product  can be an electronic device, a food item, a pharmaceutical, a cleaning product, a clothing item, or a vehicle, to name a few.","In one embodiment, the product  is associated with a machine-readable code . For example, the machine-readable code can be affixed to the product's  packaging via a sticker, printed directly onto the product's  packaging, included on a shipping label, etched directly onto the product , combinations of the same, or the like. The machine-readable code  can comprise any information associated with product characteristics and\/or use information. For example, if the product  represents a food item, the machine-readable code  can include nutrition information. This nutrition information can include any information associated with food, such as ingredients, nutrition facts or statistics (e.g. calorie count, % of daily vitamins, amount of fat, amount of saturated fat, amount of sugar etc.), organic status, product origin, origin of ingredients, allergy-related information, pasteurization status, or any nutrition information on a Nutrition Facts label or the like, to name a few.","As a second example, if the product  represents a pharmaceutical, the machine-readable code  can comprise pharmaceutical information. This pharmaceutical information can include any information associated with taking a pharmaceutical, such as ingredients, active ingredients, allergy information, potential side effects, potential drug-interaction information, dosage instructions, recommended body state at time of use (e.g. on an empty stomach, with food, with water, an hour before bed, etc.), usage warnings (e.g. may cause drowsiness, not for pregnant women, not suitable for children, etc.), or government approval information, to name a few.","In one embodiment, the machine-readable code  can comprise any environmental impact information associated with the product . This environmental impact information can relate to the manufacture, use, shipping or disposal of the product . Further, the environmental impact information can include, for example, identification of a type, amount, or percentage of one or more of reusable materials, biodegradable materials, toxic materials, limited-resource materials, or renewable materials, to name a few. In addition, the environmental impact information can include identification of the impact of one or more processes used in manufacturing or shipping the product , as well as one or more processes involved in using the product  that may have an impact on the environment. Further, the environmental impact information can include the amount of pollutants and\/or the amount of carbon-dioxide (CO2) created or released in the manufacture, shipping, disposal, or use of the product .","In one embodiment, the machine-readable code  can also include a price and product identity information (e.g. type of product or brand of product) associated with the product . The machine-readable code  can also include a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). This URL or URI can point the mobile computing device , or any other system that accesses the machine-readable code , to a source that includes information (e.g. nutrition information or environmental impact information) associated with the product .","In one embodiment, the machine-readable code  can be a watermark. This watermark can be visible, invisible, or less visible than other markings on the product . One example of a watermark that may be incorporated in the machine-readable code is the Digimarc\u00ae watermark from Digimarc Corporation of Beaverton, Oreg.","In one embodiment, the machine-readable code , although not limited as such, can be used to help the customer  maintain purchase preferences, track product purchase and consumption, and monitor the customer's  health. Several non-limiting example scenarios will now be described with respect to .","Example Use Scenario\u2014Food Purchase or Consumption","In one example use scenario, the product  can be a food item. In this example scenario, when the customer  is considering purchasing or consuming the product , the customer  can access or scan the machine-readable code  using a machine-readable code interface  associated with a mobile computing system . A consumption guide processor  associated with the mobile computing system  can extract nutrition information from the machine-readable code . Upon extracting the nutrition information, the mobile computing system  can present the nutrition information to the customer  thereby enabling the customer  to decide, based on the nutrition information, whether to purchase or consume the food item.","In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can access customer nutrition preferences stored at a preferences and consumption repository . The customer  can enter or change the nutrition preferences using a user interface provided by the consumption guide processor . The customer nutrition preferences can include any nutrition-related preferences. For example, the customer nutrition preferences can include a preference to purchase or consume organic food, locally grown food, all-natural food, low-fat food (e.g. food with a fat content below a predefined threshold), food with less than a predefined threshold of sugar, and vegan food, to name a few. Further, the customer nutrition preferences can differ based on the food type. For example, a customer preference associated with fat may differ for meat versus cakes, or for beef versus chicken. In one embodiment, one or more of the customer nutrition preferences can be aspirational guidelines. Alternatively, one or more of the customer nutrition preferences can be absolute rules. For example, if the customer  is allergic to peanuts, the customer nutrition preferences can specify no peanuts and\/or no food made in a facility that also manufactures food with peanuts. As a second example, if the customer  is vegetarian, the customer nutrition preferences can specify that all products must include no meat or meat-based ingredients.","Using the customer nutrition preferences and the nutrition information, the consumption guide processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present to the customer  a recommendation of whether to purchase or consume the product .","In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present an alternative product suggestion to the customer  based, at least in part, on the customer nutrition preferences and the nutrition information. In one embodiment, the alternative product suggestion is generated by an interactive computing system , which provides the alternative product suggestion to the mobile computing system . In one embodiment, the mobile computing system  can communicate with the interactive computing system  via the network . In one embodiment, the alternative product suggestion is based, at least in part, on the price, type of product, and\/or product ratings of the product  and the potential alternative products.","In one embodiment, the scope of the potential alternative product suggestions vary based on the product . For example, if the product  is cereal, the alternative product suggestion may include different types of cereal. If the product  is cookies, the alternative product suggestion may include other cookies, and may include other food items classified as desserts, such as cakes and ice-cream, or other food classified as snacks, such as potato chips, pretzels, and dried fruit. In one embodiment, the customer  can select the scope of alternative product suggestions. In one embodiment, the food classifications can be pre-defined by one or more of the following: the customer ; the interactive computing system ; an organization associated with the interactive computing system ; and a governmental organization, such as the Food and Drug Administration or the Department of Agriculture. Alternatively, the food classifications can be determined based on any algorithm that can recommend an alternative product based on what other consumers are viewing and purchasing. For example, the algorithm can involve identifying a set of shared attributes common to all items viewed by a consumer before selecting a product for purchase. Any item that includes the same set of shared attributed can then be classified similarly. These attributes are described further with respect to .","In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present an alternative product source suggestion to the customer . The alternative product source suggestion can be identified by the interactive computing system , which provides the suggestion to the mobile computing system .","Further, the consumption guide processor  can track total product purchases or consumption over a predefined time period or event. In addition, the consumption guide processor  can provide warnings and\/or recommendations related to purchasing or consuming the product  based on the tracked total product purchases or consumption, the customer nutrition preferences, and the nutrition information associated with the product .","Example Use Scenario\u2014Pharmaceutical Purchase or Consumption","In another example use scenario, the product  can be a pharmaceutical. In this example scenario, when the customer  is considering purchasing the product , the customer  can access or scan the machine-readable code  using the machine-readable code interface . A pharmaceutical use processor  associated with the mobile computing system  can extract pharmaceutical information from the machine-readable code . Upon extracting the pharmaceutical information, the mobile computing system  can present the translated pharmaceutical information to the customer  thereby enabling the customer  to decide, based on the pharmaceutical information, whether to purchase the pharmaceutical.","The pharmaceutical use processor  can access a pharmaceutical use repository  to identify one or more pharmaceuticals the customer  is currently taking. The pharmaceutical use processor  can determine if any known interactions exist between the product  and the one or more pharmaceuticals the customer  is currently taking. This determination can be based, at least in part, on the pharmaceutical information extracted from the machine-readable code  and the pharmaceutical information associated with the one or more pharmaceuticals, which can be stored at the pharmaceutical use repository , accessed from the interactive computing system , or from any other pharmaceutical information resource. If any potential drug interactions are identified, the pharmaceutical use processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present a warning to the customer .","The pharmaceutical use processor  can also cause the mobile computing system  to present an alternative pharmaceutical suggestion to the customer  based, at least in part, on the pharmaceutical information. In one embodiment, the alternative pharmaceutical suggestion is generated by an interactive computing system , which provides the alternative pharmaceutical suggestion to the mobile computing system . In one embodiment, the alternative pharmaceutical suggestion is based, at least in part, on the price, brand, and\/or product ratings of the product  and the potential alternative pharmaceuticals. In one embodiment, the alternative pharmaceutical suggestion is based, at least in part, on any pharmaceuticals the customer  is currently taking and any potential drug interactions associated with these pharmaceuticals and the potential alternative pharmaceuticals.","Additionally, the pharmaceutical use processor  can verify the suitability of the alternative pharmaceutical as a substitute for the product  by providing pharmaceutical information associated with the alternative pharmaceutical to a doctor's office . In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can obtain pre-approval for purchasing the alternative pharmaceutical from the customer's  health insurance company (not shown) by providing pharmaceutical information associated with the alternative pharmaceutical to the insurance company.","Further, the pharmaceutical use processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present an alternative pharmaceutical source suggestion to the customer . In one embodiment, the alternative pharmaceutical source suggestion is identified by the interactive computing system , which provides the suggestion to the mobile computing system .","The pharmaceutical use processor  can also facilitate the customer  taking the product  under a recommended or prescribed body state or condition and at the recommended or prescribed dose taking time. The pharmaceutical use processor  can determine both when the customer  should take a dose of the product  and under what body state based on the pharmaceutical information extracted from the machine-readable code . When it is time to take a dose of the pharmaceutical, the pharmaceutical use processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to alert the customer  and to provide dose usage instructions based on the pharmaceutical information. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical use processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to alert the customer  prior to the dose taking time of the prescribed body state. For example, the pharmaceutical use processor  can alert the customer  30-minutes before the dose taking time that the dose should be taken on a full stomach thereby enabling the customer  to eat before it is time to take the dose of the product . These alerts can take any form and can be auditory, visual, tactile or a combination thereof. For example, an alert can be a beep, a musical chime, an email, a vibration alert, or a text message, to name a few.","Moreover, in some embodiments, the pharmaceutical use processor  keeps track of the number of doses remaining of the product . This enables the pharmaceutical use processor  to alert the customer  to refill the customer's  pharmaceutical supply prior to exhausting the customer's  pharmaceutical supply.","Example Use Scenario\u2014Environmentally Conscious Purchases","In yet another example use scenario, the product  can be any product that has an impact on the environment. In this example scenario, when the customer  is considering purchasing the product , the customer  can access or scan the machine-readable code  using the machine-readable code interface . A consumption guide processor  associated with the mobile computing system  can extract environmental impact information from the machine-readable code . Upon extracting the environmental impact information, the mobile computing system  can present the translated environmental impact information to the customer  thereby enabling the customer  to decide, based on the environmental impact information, whether to purchase the product .","In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can access customer environmental impact preferences stored at a preferences and consumption repository . The customer environmental impact preferences can include any preference relating to the environmental impact of a product, including, for example, the impact of manufacturing, shipping, using, or disposing of the product. For example, the customer environmental impact preferences can specify that the manufacture of the product  use less than a predefined threshold of non-renewable energy or materials. As a second example, the customer environmental impact preferences can specify that products be recyclable. In one embodiment, the customer environmental impact preferences are associated with product categories. For example, the customer environmental impact preferences can specify that: food items be locally grown; electronics contain no toxic materials and use less than a pre-defined threshold of electricity to manufacture and to operate; packaging materials be biodegradable; and that furniture be made using new-growth wood, non-toxic glue, and lead-free paint, to name a few. In one embodiment, the customer environmental impact preferences are aspirational. Alternatively, the customer environmental impact preferences are firm rules. For example, the customer  may insist on absolutely no mercury in products.","Using the customer environmental impact preferences and the environmental impact information, the consumption guide processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present to the customer  a recommendation of whether to purchase the product .","In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present an alternative product suggestion to the customer  based, at least in part, on the customer environmental impact preferences and the environmental impact information. In one embodiment, the alternative product suggestion is generated by the interactive computing system , which provides the alternative product suggestion to the mobile computing system . Further, the alternative product suggestion can be based, at least in part, on the price, features, and product ratings of the product  and the potential alternative products.","In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present an alternative product source suggestion to the customer . The alternative product source suggestion, in some embodiments, can be identified by the interactive computing system , which provides the suggestion to the mobile computing system .","The consumption guide processor  can cause the mobile computing system  to present one or more environmental impact offset options to the customer . The environmental impact offset options can include any option for offsetting the environmental impact or footprint of manufacturing, shipping, using, or disposing of the product . For example, the environmental impact offset options can include purchasing carbon credits or offsets, paying for the planting of new trees, donating money to alternative energy research, or helping to purchase environmentally friendly replacement products for people who can not afford to do so themselves, to name a few.","In one embodiment, the one or more suggested environmental impact offset options can be identified by the interactive computing system , which provides the suggestions to the mobile computing system . Further, the environmental offsets provider  can provide one or more of the environmental impact offset options.","The alternative product suggestions can include one or more suggested environmental impact offset options. Advantageously, in some embodiments, the customer  may be able to combine an alternative purchase with an environmental impact offset option to satisfy the customer's  environmental impact preferences. Although not limited as such, the ability to suggest purchasing an alternative product along with an environmental impact offset option facilitates the customer  satisfying environmental impact preferences when no product may exist that can alone satisfy the customer's  environmental impact preferences.","Terminology","In one embodiment, the customer  is associated with a mobile computing system . The mobile computing system  can generally include any mobile computing device, such as cellular phones, smart phones, PDAs, tablets, portable video game devices, and portable music players, to name a few. Further, the mobile computing system  can include a machine-readable code interface , a consumption guide processor , a pharmaceutical use processor , a preferences and consumption repository , and a pharmaceutical use repository . Moreover, the mobile computing system  may include one of the consumption guide processor  and the pharmaceutical use processor , or both.","The machine-readable code interface  can generally include any system configured to read or scan a machine-readable code . For example, the machine-readable code interface  can include a barcode scanner, a camera, or an optical reader, to name a few.","The consumption guide processor  can generally include any system that can translate information associated with the machine-readable code  into a human-readable form and cause the human-readable information to be presented to the customer . Further, the consumption guide processor  can include any system that can access customer preferences, determine whether a product  satisfies the customer preferences, and present a recommendation to the customer  based, at least in part, on the customer preferences and the information associated with the machine-readable code . For example, the consumption guide processor  can be used to help with one or more of the following: monitor nutrition information, maintain customer nutrition preferences, or maintain environmental impact preferences.","The pharmaceutical use processor  can generally include any system that can track pharmaceutical use and can provide reminder notifications to the customer . These reminder notifications can relate to one or more of: when to take a pharmaceutical, under what condition to take the pharmaceutical, any side effects of the pharmaceutical, when to replenish a supply of the pharmaceutical, and any other pharmaceutical-relation reminders. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can include some or all of the functionality of the consumption guide processor . Thus, for example, the pharmaceutical use processor  can translate information associated with the machine-readable code  into a human-readable form and cause the human-readable information to be presented to the customer .","The preferences and consumption repository  can generally include any repository, database, or information storage system that can store information associated with the customer's  preferences, such as nutrition preferences or environmental impact preferences. Further, the preferences and consumption repository  can store any consumption tracking information, such as nutrition intake information.","The pharmaceutical use repository  can generally include any repository, database, or information storage system that can store information associated with the customer's  pharmaceutical use. This can include information associated with taking a particular pharmaceutical as well as information associated with each pharmaceutical the customer  may be taking. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use repository  and the preferences and consumption repository  can be a single repository.","The network  can include any type of wired or wireless network including a combination of wired and wireless networks. For example, the network  can be a LAN, WAN, a cellular network, or the Internet, to name a few. In one embodiment, the network  enables the mobile computing system  to communicate with one or more of the environmental offsets provider , the doctor's office , and the interactive computing system .","The environmental offsets provider  can generally include any organization or party that can provide a program or service to facilitate reducing or offsetting the environmental impact of an item or process. For example, the environmental offsets provider  can include a government or private organization that sells carbon offsets or credits. As a second example, the environmental offsets provider  can include organizations that research or fund research relating to alternative energy sources or other potential pollution reducing technologies. As another example, the environmental offsets provider  can include organizations that plant trees, or purchase and\/or maintain endangered habitats, such as rainforests. In one embodiment, the customer  can purchase the offset directly from the environmental offsets provider  or can purchase the offset via a third-party, such as an organization associated with the interactive computing system .","The doctor's office  can generally include any healthcare provider that is capable of prescribing a pharmaceutical or providing medical advice relating to pharmaceuticals.","The interactive computing system  can generally represent any ecommerce system that can provide products, services, and purchase recommendations based on any number of criteria. This criteria can include, for example: the customer 's preferences, prior purchases, product views, or product ratings; and other customers' preferences, purchases, product views, or product ratings, to name a few. In one embodiment, the interactive computing system  is associated with a brick-and-mortar store, an ecommerce organization, or both.","The interactive computing system  can be implemented with one or more physical servers or computing machines. Thus, each of the components depicted in the interactive computing system  can include hardware and\/or software for performing various features. In one embodiment, the interactive computing system  is a web site or collection of web sites.","In the depicted embodiment, the interactive computing system  includes several components that can be implemented in hardware and\/or software. For instance, the interactive computing system  includes one or more physical servers  for sending, receiving, and responding to network requests from, for example, the mobile computing system . The one or more servers  can include web servers, application servers, database servers, combinations of the same, or the like. The interactive computing system  also includes a catalog service  and associated search engine (not shown) in communication with the one or more servers . Users (e.g. the customer ) can browse an electronic catalog provided by the catalog service  or query the search engine to obtain information about electronic catalog content stored in an item data repository . In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  and\/or the pharmaceutical use processor  can browse the electronic catalog or query the search engine to obtain information about the electronic catalog content.","The electronic catalog content can include information about products and\/or services. In one embodiment, this content is arranged in a hierarchical structure, having items associated with one or more categories or browse nodes in a hierarchy. The catalog service  can provide functionality for users to browse the item hierarchy in addition to searching the catalog. Users can select an item represented in the hierarchy or in a list of search results to see more details about an item. In response to a user item selection, the server  can provide to a user system (e.g. the mobile computing system ) a catalog page (sometimes called an item detail page) that includes details about the selected item. In one embodiment, the server  can provide the catalog page in response to a request from the consumption guide processor  and\/or the pharmaceutical use processor .","The catalog service  can include a processing and shipping service . The processing and shipping service  can perform any processes associated with initiating and\/or completing a transaction associated with the customer . For example, the processing and shipping service  can obtain billing and shipping information associated with a customer . To initiate and\/or complete the transaction, the processing and shipping service  can communicate with one or more of the following: the mobile computing system , the consumption guide processor , and the pharmaceutical use processor . Further, the processing and shipping service  can perform any processes associated with providing a product to the customer . For example, the processing and shipping service  can initiate shipping the product to the customer  via a third-party shipping service provider (not shown).","The personalization services  can include services for providing personalized information to users. Examples of personalization services  include recommendation services, personalized search services, and tag-based services. A recommendation service can use any of a variety of algorithms for generating recommendations, including behavior-based algorithms. In some embodiments, such behavior-based algorithms can analyze user behavior to generate item-to-item mappings and can use these mappings to recommend items related to a user's item selection activities. Examples of recommendation algorithms that can be used herein are described in U.S. Publication No. 2002\/0198882, filed Jan. 14, 2002, titled \u201cContent Personalization Based on Actions Performed During a Current Browsing Session,\u201d the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Personalized search services can recommend search queries to users, in some implementations. Tag-based services can provide functionality for users to apply textual tags to items in the catalog to thereby categorize the items. Other personalization services can include list services, where users create lists of items, blogging services, personalized social networking services, and the like.","In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  and\/or the pharmaceutical use processor  can use the personalization services  to obtain recommendations of suggested alternatives to the product  based, at least in part, on the information associated with the machine-readable code  and any customer preferences stored in the preferences and consumption repository . In one embodiment, the customer preferences can be stored at and accessed from the user data repository .","The user data repository  can include any information associated with the customer  that can facilitate making recommendations. Further, the user data repository  can include any information associated with the customer  that can facilitate purchasing a suggested alternative product, environmental offsets, or the product  from an alternative source, including an organization associated with the interactive computing system . For example, this information can include billing and shipping information.","In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  (or the pharmaceutical use processor ) can facilitate the purchase of the product , a refill of a pharmaceutical prescription, an environmental offset, or an alternative product from an alternative source (e.g. interactive computing system ). Upon presenting the customer  with a purchase option, the consumption guide processor  can receive an indication from the customer  of the customer's  desire to proceed with the purchase option transaction. The consumption guide processor  can then initiate the transaction. In one embodiment, initiating the transaction can comprise providing shipping and billing information to the product source. Alternatively, the shipping and billing information can be stored in the user data repository . Thus, in some embodiments, upon receiving an acceptance of the proposed transaction from the customer , no further input is required from the customer .","Example Process for Accessing Nutrition Information",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","152","106","200","110","116","198","114","156","200","200","114","152","150"]},"The process  begins at block , where, for example, the consumption guide processor  accesses the machine-readable code  associated with a food product . At block , the consumption guide processor  extracts nutrition information from the machine-readable code . This nutrition information can include any information associated with food as described above with respect to . In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can optionally supplement the nutrition information with information obtained from sources alternative to the machine-readable code , such as the interactive computing system , a source associated with the product's  manufacturer, or a government database.","At block , the consumption guide processor  causes the nutrition information to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment, block  can further comprise translating the nutrition information from a machine-readable format into a human-readable format and presenting the human-readable format to the customer .","In one embodiment, block  can further comprise converting one or more pieces of complex nutrition information into a simpler form, such as converting the scientific name of an ingredient, to a layman's term and\/or identifying the purpose of the ingredient (e.g. a preservative or a food coloring). For example, if the product  includes ascorbic acid, the consumption guide processor  can convert the term \u201cascorbic acid\u201d to \u201cvitamin C\u201d and indicate that it may be added as an antioxidant, a nutrient, or to maintain the product's  color.","In one embodiment, block  can further comprise presenting an analysis of the product  with respect to consumer nutrition preferences. This process is described in more detail with respect to .","At block , the consumption guide processor  can identify an alternative product source for purchasing or obtaining the product . In one embodiment, identifying the alternative product source may comprise providing the identity of the product  to the interactive computing system , which can then provide the mobile computing system  with an alternative source for the product . In one embodiment, the interactive computing system  can serve as the alternative product source. Further, the alternative product source can be an ecommerce site or a brick-and-mortar store. In addition, identifying an alternative product source can include identifying an alternative product source that sells product  for a different price than the shopping environment  sells the product . Moreover, the consumption-guide processor  can identify the alternative product source from one or more product sources that sells the product  and\/or the alternative product at the lowest price.","At block , the consumption guide processor  can cause the alternative product source to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment, the customer  can initiate a transaction with the alternative product source by accepting a purchase offer presented by the consumption guide processor  at block . In one embodiment, any of blocks , , and  can be optional, among others.","Example Nutrition Preference Maintenance Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","150","300","110","116","198","114","156","300","300","114"]},"The process  begins at block , where, for example, the consumption guide processor  accesses customer nutrition preferences associated with the customer  and stored at, for example, the preferences and consumption repository . The customer nutrition preferences can include any preferences related to the customer's  purchase and\/or consumption of food products as described above with respect to . In one embodiment, the customer nutrition preferences can include temporary preferences. For example, a preference not to purchase or consume meat-based products for a predefined time due to religious reasons, or a preference not to purchase or consume spinach from a particular geographic region for a predefined time due to uncertainty about e-coli findings. Further, the customer nutrition preferences can be associated with another user or person. For example, the customer nutrition preferences may be associated with the customer's  child. In addition, the customer nutrition preferences can be associated with multiple users or people. For example, the customer nutrition preferences may be associated with the customer's  household or immediate family.","In one embodiment, the customer nutrition preferences are pre-specified by the customer . Alternatively, or additionally, the customer nutrition preferences can be pre-specified by a healthcare provider. In one embodiment, the customer nutrition preferences can be based on a diet program selected by the customer  or a nutritionist.","At block , the consumption guide processor  can extract nutrition information from the machine-readable code  corresponding to the customer nutrition preferences. In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  supplements the nutrition information as described with respect to block .","At decision block , the consumption guide processor  determines if the nutrition information satisfies the customer nutrition preferences. In one embodiment, the determination can be per preference category. For example, the consumption guide processor  can determine if the amount of fat, sugar, or vitamin D exceeds a threshold. In one embodiment, the determination can be made as a whole based on predefined rules. For example, the customer  may specify as part of the customer preferences a desire to not purchase products with sugar content above a threshold. However, the customer  may further specify that a product with sugar content above the threshold may still be desirable if the product contains more than a threshold level of a number of pre-specified vitamins.","If at decision block  the consumption guide processor  determines that the nutrition information satisfies the customer preferences, the consumption guide processor  can present to the customer  a product rating or other indication at block . This product rating or indication can reflect how well the nutrition information of the product matches the customer's nutrition preferences. This product rating can include any indication and\/or information related to the product's  satisfaction of the customer nutrition preferences. For example, the product rating can be a thumbs up, a green checkmark, or a star-based rating or the like (e.g., a four or five star rating system). Further, presenting the product rating can include presenting to the customer  an absolute or percentage-based comparison of the nutrition information to the customer nutrition preferences. In addition, presenting the product rating can include playing a sound associated with the product rating (e.g. a chime for a product that matches the customer nutrition preferences and a beep for a product that does not match the customer nutrition preferences). In one embodiment, block  is optional.","If at decision block  the consumption guide processor  determines that the nutrition information does not satisfy the customer preferences, the consumption guide processor  can identify an alternative product that does satisfy the customer nutrition preferences. In one embodiment, the alternative product is determined based on one or more of the identity of the product , the nutrition information, and the customer nutrition preferences. In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can determine the alternative product based on information stored at the preferences and consumption repository . Alternatively, the consumption guide processor  can provide the identity of the product  and the customer nutrition preferences to the interactive computing system , which can then provide the alternative product suggestion to the consumption guide processor .","In one embodiment, the alternative product may not satisfy the customer nutrition preferences, but may be closer to satisfying the customer nutrition preferences than the product  is to satisfying the customer nutrition preferences. In one embodiment, the alternative product may be a version of the product  offered by a competing manufacturer or producer of the product  (e.g. the product  and the alternative product may both be frozen pizzas, or cartons of orange juice). In one embodiment, the alternative product may be in the same or a related category as the product , but not necessarily a version of the product . For example, both products may be two different kinds of fruit (e.g. apples and oranges) or two different types of snacks (e.g. pretzels and potato chips).","In one embodiment, identifying an alternative product can include identifying one or more products that share one or more attributes with the product . For example, the consumption guide processor  can identify one or more characteristics or attributes associated with the product . Based in part on the one or more attributes, the consumption guide processor  can identify alternative products that share a certain number or percentage of attributes with the product . The consumption guide processor  can rank the alternative products based, at least in part, on the number or percentage of attributes the alternative products share with the product . Further, the ranking can be based, at least in part, on how closely the alternative products satisfy the customer nutrition preferences. A certain number of the alternative products can be presented to the customer  based on the ranking of the alternative products.","Product attributes can include any characteristics that can be used to relate two products. For example, the attributes can include ingredients, nutrition content, or food type (e.g. fruit, meat, vegetable, snack, dessert, etc.), to name a few. In one embodiment, the interactive computing system  determines the alternative products based on attributes associated with the product . The consumption guide processor  can provide the attributes to the interactive computing system , or the interactive computing system  can determines the attributes based on the identity of the product .","At block , the consumption guide processor  can present the alternative product to the customer . This can include presenting a product rating based on nutrition information associated with the alternative product and the customer nutrition preferences to the customer . Further, presenting the alternative product can also comprise presenting the product rating associated with the product . These product ratings can show absolute and\/or percentile differences between the nutrition information and the customer nutrition preferences. Further, these product ratings can use any visual or audio indicators that can facilitate the customer  quickly discerning the product ratings. For example, a red \u2018X\u2019 to indicate that the product  does not satisfy the customer nutrition preferences, and a yellow flashing circle to indicate, for example, that the alternative product may satisfy all but one customer preference, or minimally satisfies the customer nutrition preferences. Further, the visual cue can include, for example, a flashing nut to indicate an allergy warning.","In one embodiment, blocks  and  are optional. In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  presents the customer  with an indication of whether the product  satisfies the customer nutrition information. This indication may be either positive (e.g. a solid green circle) or a negative indication (e.g. an audio beep or a red \u2018X\u2019).","Further, the consumption guide processor  can present a purchase offer associated with purchasing the product  or the alternative product from the interactive computing system . The customer  can indicate acceptance of this offer by, for example, pressing a button, rescanning a machine-readable code, voicing an acceptance, or any other acceptance process.","Example Consumption Monitoring Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","106","400","110","116","198","114","156","400","400","114","400"]},"The process  begins at block , where, for example, the consumption guide processor  accesses the machine-readable code  associated with the product . The machine-readable code  may be scanned once to indicate that the customer  purchased or consumed a unit or a serving of the product . Although not limited as such, a unit generally refers to a saleable unit of the product , such as a box, carton, or container. Further, although a unit may be equivalent to a serving, a unit may also include multiple servings. Alternatively, the customer  can cause the consumption guide processor  to access the machine-readable code  multiple times to identify the purchase or consumption of multiple units or servings of the product . Scanning the machine-readable code  can indicate the consumption of one unit or one serving of the product . In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can identity fractions of servings consumed by, for example, determining the orientation of the mobile computing system  (e.g. holding the mobile computing system  horizontal can indicate a half serving, and holding the mobile computing system  vertically can indicate a full serving). Alternatively, the customer  can specify the number of servings or fraction of a serving by typing on, speaking to, or pushing a button on the mobile computing system .","At block , as with block , the consumption guide processor  extracts nutrition information from the machine-readable code . At block , the consumption guide processor  amends a consumption log based on the nutrition information. In one embodiment, the consumption log is stored at the preferences and consumption repository . In one embodiment, amending the consumption log can comprise amending a running total of any predefined nutrition categories, such as fats, carbohydrates, sugars, vitamins, processed foods, whole grains, etc.","At block , the consumption guide processor  can cause the amended consumption log to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment, block  can be performed after each time the consumption log is amended or changed, or at the end of a pre-specified time (e.g. end of the day) or event (e.g. completion of shopping trip). In one embodiment, the customer  can undo the amendment to the consumption log by, for example, re-accessing the machine-readable code or specifying using the mobile computing system  that the consumption log should be altered to remove the amendment or to adjust the amendment. Advantageously, in certain embodiments, the ability to alter or undo the amendment enables the customer  to indicate if the customer  consumed less than a full serving, or if the customer  opted not to purchase or consume the product  after observing the impact on the consumption log. In one embodiment, the customer  can confirm each amendment to the consumption log thereby enabling the customer  to alter serving counts or to change his or her mind about purchasing or consuming the product .","At decision block , the consumption guide processor  can determine whether a pre-specified consumption or purchase threshold has been satisfied based on the amended consumption log. In one embodiment, the threshold can be associated with one or more customer nutrition preferences, such as total fat count or amount of carbohydrates. In one embodiment, the threshold can be associated with a time period (e.g. an amount of vitamin C over a two-day period) or an event (e.g. an amount of processed sugar or corn syrup during a shopping trip). In one embodiment, the threshold can be associated with a maximum value (e.g. a maximum amount of sodium over the course of a day) or a minimum value (e.g. a minimum amount of iron over the course of a day).","Further, the threshold can be associated with a range. For example, there may be a minimum threshold associated with a daily minimum calcium requirement or preference and a maximum threshold associated with an excessive level of calcium. In one embodiment, the threshold can be multi-tier. For example, there could be a first warning threshold when the daily level of sodium reaches or exceeds 75% of a daily recommended amount or a pre-specified amount, and a second warning threshold when the daily level of sodium reaches or exceeds 100% of a daily recommended amount or a pre-specified amount.","If the consumption guide processor  determines a pre-specified consumption or purchase threshold has been satisfied, the consumption guide processor  can cause a message to be presented to the customer  based on the specified threshold. In one embodiment, the message is dependent on the threshold. For example, the message may be a warning if the amount of saturated fat in a week exceeds a threshold. Alternatively, the message may be an indicator that a nutrition goal has been reached (e.g. the customer  satisfied an iron requirement or preference for the day).","Example Pharmaceutical Purchase Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","152","106","500","110","116","198","114","156","500","500","156"]},"Advantageously, in some embodiments, the process  can be used to warn the customer  of any potential drug interactions between pharmaceuticals the customer  is currently taking and the product , which can represent a pharmaceutical the customer  is considering purchasing and\/or consuming. In one embodiment, the product  can be any type of product that the customer  may take to maintain, improve or fortify the customer's  health, to manage a disease, or to relieve pain, including prescription and over-the-counter products. For ease of illustration, the systems and processes described herein are described in terms of pharmaceuticals. However, the systems and processes described therein can also be used with multi-vitamins, herbs, herbal mixtures, or other alternative or homeopathic medicines. Further, the product  can be any device, which may or may not include a pharmaceutical, for facilitating the customer  maintaining and monitoring the customer's  health. For example, the product  may be a glucose meter or an asthma inhaler.","The process  begins at block , where, for example, the pharmaceutical use processor  accesses a machine-readable code  associated with a pharmaceutical (e.g. the product ). At block , the pharmaceutical use processor  extracts pharmaceutical information from the machine-readable code . This pharmaceutical information can include any information associated with pharmaceuticals as described above with respect to . In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can optionally supplement the pharmaceutical information with information obtained from sources alternative to the machine-readable code , such as the interactive computing system , the doctor's office , a source associated with the product's  manufacturer, or a government database.","At block , the pharmaceutical use processor  identifies one or more pharmaceuticals that the customer  is currently using. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can also identify pharmaceuticals that the customer  plans to use (e.g. a pharmaceutical the customer  has recently purchased or for which the customer  has recently acquired a prescription) or has recently ceased using. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  identifies the one or more pharmaceuticals by accessing the pharmaceutical use repository , which can store pharmaceutical information associated with the one or more pharmaceuticals.","At decision block , the pharmaceutical use processor  determines if there are any potential interactions between the product  and the one or more pharmaceuticals the customer  is currently using. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can determine if there exists any potential pharmaceutical interactions based on any source, such as one or more of the following: pharmaceutical information associated with the product , pharmaceutical information based on the one or more pharmaceuticals the customer  is currently using, information obtain from the doctor's office , information obtained from the interactive computing system , and information obtained from a government organization, to name a few. Determining if there exists any potential pharmaceutical interactions can include determining if there exists a threshold probability of any potential pharmaceutical or drug interactions between the product  and the one or more pharmaceuticals the customer  is currently taking.","If the pharmaceutical use processor  identifies any potential pharmaceutical interactions, the pharmaceutical use processor  can cause a warning to be presented to the customer  informing the customer  of the potential pharmaceutical interactions at block . In one embodiment, the warning can include one or more of the following: an identification of the one or more pharmaceuticals associated with the interaction, the effects of the potential interaction, the source of the information used to identity the interaction, and the probability of the potential interaction occurring. In one embodiment, the warning may also include identification of steps, if any, the customer  can take to reduce the chance of the potential interaction occurring.","In one embodiment, block  can also comprise contacting a healthcare provider (e.g. the doctor's office ) associated with the customer . In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical use processor  can present the warning to the healthcare provider. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical use processor  may receive one or more of the following: medical instructions, medical advice, a medical opinion, the identification of an alternative pharmaceutical from the healthcare provider, and a prescription for the alternative pharmaceutical. In some embodiments, the instructions, advice, medical opinion, identification of the alternative pharmaceutical, and\/or prescription can be presented to the customer . In one embodiment, blocks , , and  are optional. In one embodiment, process  may end after block  is performed. Alternatively, the process  may further comprise presenting additional information to the customer  and\/or identifying any potential alternative pharmaceuticals as will now be described.","If no potential interactions are identified, or if the process  does not end at block , the pharmaceutical use processor  causes the pharmaceutical information associated with the product  to be presented to the customer  at block . In one embodiment, block  can further comprise translating the pharmaceutical information from a machine-readable format into a human-readable format and presenting the human-readable format to the customer .","In one embodiment, block  can further comprise converting one or more pieces of complex nutrition information into a simpler form, such as converting the scientific name of an ingredient, to a layman's term or a more recognizable brand name, and\/or identifying the purpose of the ingredient (e.g. an anti-inflammatory, a preservative, or an ingredient added for flavor).","At block , the pharmaceutical use processor  can identify any potential alternative pharmaceutical. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  identifies the potential alternative pharmaceutical based on, for example, one or more of the following: the pharmaceutical information; the price of the product ; pharmaceutical information associated with any other pharmaceuticals identified at block ; symptoms associated with the customer ; and the purpose for which the customer  was considering purchasing the product  (e.g. the customer's  medical condition). One or more of the above pieces of information may be obtained from one or more of the following sources: the machine-readable code , the customer , the doctor's office , the interactive computing system , the pharmaceutical use repository , and a source associated with a government or medical research organization.","In one embodiment, the alternative pharmaceutical is identical to the product , but is provided by an alternative source (e.g. an organization associated with the interactive computing system ) and may have a different price than offered by the shopping environment . In one embodiment, the alternative pharmaceutical is a generic version of the product , or a brand-name version of the product .","In one embodiment, block  may further comprise obtaining pre-approval from a healthcare provider to substitute the alternative pharmaceutical for the product . In one embodiment, block  may further comprise obtaining pre-approval from an insurance provider to substitute the alternative pharmaceutical for the product .","At block , the pharmaceutical use processor  causes the identity of the alternative pharmaceutical to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment, block  can further include presenting pharmaceutical information associated with the alternative pharmaceutical to the customer . Further, block  can include presenting a purchase offer to the customer  associated with the interactive computing system . In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can initiate a transaction for the alternative pharmaceutical in response to the customer's  indication of a desire to purchase the alternative pharmaceutical. Initiating the transaction can comprise interacting with the customer's  insurance company. In one embodiment, blocks  and  are optional.","At decision block , the pharmaceutical use processor  determines if the customer  accepted a purchase offer associated with the alternative pharmaceutical. This purchase offer can be presented to the customer  as part of block . If the customer  accepted the purchase offer, the pharmaceutical use processor  can initiate a transaction to purchase the alternative pharmaceutical at block . The pharmaceutical use processor  can initiate this transaction with the interactive computing system  or any other identified source of the alternative pharmaceutical. In one embodiment, blocks  and  are optional.","In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can provide the pharmaceutical information to the doctor's office  to determine whether the customer's  healthcare provider approves of the customer  using the pharmaceutical or has any medical advice to provide the customer  relating to the pharmaceutical. Advantageously, in some embodiments, enabling the customer  to provide pharmaceutical information to the customer's  healthcare provider in advance of the customer  taking the pharmaceutical reduces the probability of complications or negative side-effects associated with the customer  using the pharmaceutical.","Example Pharmaceutical Use Reminder Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","106","600","110","116","198","114","156","600","600","156"]},"The process  begins at block , where, for example, the pharmaceutical use processor  accesses a machine-readable code  associated with a pharmaceutical (e.g. the product ). At block , the pharmaceutical use processor  extracts pharmaceutical information from the machine-readable code .","At block , the pharmaceutical use processor  determines dosage instructions based, at least in part, on the pharmaceutical information. The dosage instructions can include any information that can facilitate taking a dose of the product  including an identification of when to take a dose of the pharmaceutical, and how much of the pharmaceutical to take with each dose. In one embodiment, the dosage instructions can be based in part on the customer's  medical classification (e.g. the customer's  age, gender, body size, or body type, to name a few). This medical classification may be exact or an approximation and can be obtained from the customer , the doctor's office , or any other source of medical, physical, or biological information associated with the customer . In one embodiment, blocks , , and  are optional. In one embodiment, the process  can begin with the customer  providing the dosage instructions to the pharmaceutical use processor , including any indication of required or recommended body state for taking a dose of the pharmaceutical.","At decision block , the pharmaceutical use processor  determines if there is a recommended body state for taking a dose of the pharmaceutical based, at least in part, on the pharmaceutical information. The recommended body state refers to the recommended body condition under which the customer  is advised to take a dose of the pharmaceutical. For example the body state can include: on an empty stomach, on a full stomach, with water, with food, an hour after eating, or 30-minutes before sleeping, to name a few. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can store one or more of the dosage instructions and the recommended body state at the pharmaceutical use repository .","If a recommended body state exists, the pharmaceutical use processor  alerts the customer  of the recommended body state at a body state time associated with the recommended body state at block . For example, if the recommended body state is on a full stomach, the body state time (or pre-dosage time) may be 30-minutes or an hour prior to a dosage time associated with the dosage instructions. The dosage time indicates when the customer  is scheduled to take the customer's  next dose of the product . In one embodiment, the customer  can adjust the body state time. For example, the customer  may desire to advance the body state time to provide the customer  with more time to obtain food to take with the pharmaceutical. In one embodiment, one or more of the block  and  are optional.","At block , the pharmaceutical use processor  alerts the customer  of the dosage instructions at a dosage time. In one embodiment, the body state time and the dosage time may be equivalent. For example, the dosage instructions may indicate to take a dose of the pharmaceutical with a glass of water, which generally does not require advance notice. However, in this example, if the customer  does desire advance notice of the glass of water recommendation, the customer  can advance the body state time.","At block , for each dose the customer  consumes of the product , the pharmaceutical use processor  amends the remaining pharmaceutical dose count to reflect the consumed dose. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  determines the total pharmaceutical dose count from the pharmaceutical information. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  amends the remaining pharmaceutical dose count automatically at each dosage time. Alternatively, the pharmaceutical use processor  awaits confirmation from the customer  that the dose was in fact consumed. In one embodiment, the customer  can indicate that the dose was consumed by interacting with the mobile computing system  or by using the mobile computing system  to re-access or rescan the machine-readable code . In one embodiment, the remaining pharmaceutical dose count is stored at the pharmaceutical use repository .","In one embodiment, the remaining pharmaceutical dose count refers to a remaining number of uses of the product . For example, if the product  is a glucose meter, the pharmaceutical dose count may refer to the number of disposable test strips remaining. As a second example, if the product  is an asthma inhaler, the pharmaceutical dose count may refer to the number of actuations (or puffs) remaining.","At decision block , the pharmaceutical use processor  determines if the remaining number of doses of the product  satisfies a dose threshold. The dose threshold is associated with the number of total doses of the product . In one embodiment, the dose threshold may be zero, which indicates that the product  is completely exhausted. Alternatively, the dose threshold may be non-zero and may be pre-specified to provide the customer  with time to obtain a resupply of the product  before the customer's  existing supply of the product  is exhausted.","If the pharmaceutical use processor  determines that the remaining number of doses of the product  satisfies a dose threshold, the pharmaceutical use processor  can cause a warning to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can optionally initiate a transaction with, for example, the interactive computing system  to purchase a resupply of the product . In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  can automatically initiate and complete the transaction for the resupply of the product  without any interaction from the customer . In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical use processor  awaits confirmation from the customer  before initiating and\/or completing the transaction for ordering the resupply of the product .","Advantageously, in some embodiments, using the pharmaceutical use processor  and process  to monitor the number of doses of the product  consumed helps to ensure that the customer  does not unexpectedly exhaust the supply of the product . This is particularly useful for products that are difficult to manually monitor, such as some asthma inhalers which do not include dose counters.","Example Environmentally Conscious Purchase Transaction Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","152","106","700","110","116","198","114","156","700","700","114","152","150","150"]},"The process  begins at block , where, for example, the consumption guide processor  accesses the machine-readable code  associated with a product . At block , the consumption guide processor  extracts environmental impact information from the machine-readable code . This environmental impact information can include any information associated with manufacturing, distributing, using, or disposing of the product  as described above with respect to . In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can optionally supplement the environmental impact information with information obtained from sources alternative to the machine-readable code , such as the interactive computing system , a source associated with the product's  manufacturer, or a government database.","At block , the consumption guide processor  accesses customer environmental impact preferences associated with the customer  and stored at, for example, the preferences and consumption repository . The customer environmental impact preferences can include any preferences related to the customer's  purchase of the product  as described above with respect to . In one embodiment, the customer environmental impact preferences can include different preferences for different types of products. For example, the customer  may have a preference that some or all food items be manufactured or produced from within a 100-mile radius. As another example, the customer  may have a preference that the manufacture and\/or use of an appliance consume less than a threshold level of electricity.","In one embodiment, the customer environmental impact preferences are pre-specified by the customer . Alternatively, or additionally, the customer environmental impact preferences can be pre-specified by a third-party source, such as an organization advocating a preference for the consumption of locally produced products, or an organization advocating reducing a person's carbon footprint.","At decision block , the consumption guide processor  determines if the environmental impact information (and therefore the product ) satisfies the customer environmental impact preferences. In one embodiment, the determination can be per preference category. For example, the consumption guide processor  can determine if the amount of electricity required to manufacture, to distribute, to use, and to dispose of a television is above a corresponding threshold. For example, the customer  may specify as part of the customer preferences a desire to not purchase electronics with toxic materials that are harmful to the environment. However, the customer  may further specify that a product with toxic materials may still be desirable if the manufacturer has a program in place that enables the reuse of at least a threshold percentage of the toxic materials thereby preventing the release of the toxic materials into the water supply. As a second example, the customer  may specify a desire to not purchase a refrigerator that uses more than a threshold amount of electricity over the estimated lifetime of the refrigerator. Thus, in this second example, the consumption guide processor  examines the reported amount of electricity required to manufacture, distribute, use, and dispose of the refrigerator to determine if the threshold is satisfied as part of the determination at decision block .","If the consumption guide processor  determines that the environmental impact information satisfies the customer environmental impact preferences, the consumption guide processor  causes the environmental impact information to be presented to the customer at block . In one embodiment, presenting the environmental impact information can include presenting the environmental impact information in any manner that can facilitate the customer  quickly determining how the product  compares to the customer's  environmental impact preferences. For example, the environmental impact information can be presented as a chart, as a series of percentage values, or as an image of a foot that may differ in size and\/or color depending based on the environmental impact of the product , to name a few. In one embodiment, presenting the environmental impact information to the customer  further comprises translating the environmental impact information accessed from the machine-readable code  into a human-readable format and presenting the human-readable environmental impact information to the customer .","If the consumption guide processor  determines that the environmental impact information does not satisfy the customer environmental impact preferences, the consumption guide processor  can identify an environmental impact offset option at block . In one embodiment, the environmental impact offset option can be based on one or more of the customer environmental impact preferences, the product , and the environmental impact information. For example, if the product  includes more than a threshold level of toxic chemicals, the customer environmental impact preferences may indicate that no environmental impact offset option is acceptable to the customer . As a second example, assuming the product  is a car, the customer environmental impact preferences may indicate the customer  is unwilling to consider the car if the miles per gallon (mpg) estimate is below a first threshold, but may consider an environmental impact offset option if the car's mpg estimate is between the first threshold and a second threshold.","In one embodiment, the environmental impact offset options can include one or more of the following: a one-time offset, a monthly offset, and a combination of the one-time offset and the monthly offset.","In one embodiment, the customer environmental impact preferences may specify the environmental impact offset options the customer  is willing to consider. In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can identify environmental impact offset options from the environmental offsets provider  or the interactive computing system . In one embodiment, block  can further comprise identifying an alternative product that satisfies the customer environmental impact preferences or more closely satisfies the customer environmental impact preferences compared to the product . Identifying an alternative product is discussed in more detail with respect to .","At block , the consumption guide processor  causes one or more environmental impact offset options and the environmental impact information to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment, presenting the environmental impact information is as described with respect to block . In one embodiment, presenting the one or more environmental impact offset options can include presenting the one or more environmental impact offset options in any manner that can facilitate the customer  quickly determining how the one or more environmental impact offset options can reduce the environmental impact of the product . For example, the effect of the one or more environmental impact offset options can be illustrated via a multi-colored bar graph. In one embodiment, blocks  and  are optional. In one embodiment, presenting the one or more environmental impact offset options includes presenting a price associated with the one or more environmental impact offset options. In one embodiment, presenting the one or more environmental impact offset options includes presenting a total price calculated based on the price of the product  and the price of the one or more environmental impact offset options.","In one embodiment, if the customer  indicates a desire to purchase one or more of the environmental impact offset options, the consumption guide processor  can initiate a transaction with the environmental offsets provider  or the interactive computing system  to purchase the one or more environmental offset options.","At decision block , the consumption guide processor  determines whether the customer  indicated acceptance of a purchase offer associated with the environmental impact offset option. This purchase offer can be presented to the customer  as part of block . If the customer  accepted the purchase offer, the consumption guide processor  can initiate a transaction to purchase the environmental impact offset option at block . The consumption guide processor  can initiate this transaction with the interactive computing system , the environmental offsets provider , or any other identified source of the environmental offset option. In one embodiment, blocks  and  are optional.","In one embodiment, the process  can be used to compare the environmental impact of multiple products. For example, after the consumption guide processor  performs the process  for the product , the consumption guide processor  can store the environmental impact information and the environmental impact offset options, if any, at the preferences and consumption repository . Upon scanning a machine-readable code associated with an alternative product, the consumption guide processor  can perform the process  with respect to the alternative product. The consumption guide processor  can access the environmental impact information and the environmental impact offset options associated with the product  and compare them to the environmental impact information and the environmental impact offset options associated with the alternative product. This comparison information can be presented to the customer  and\/or stored at the preferences and consumption repository  for additional comparisons or later reference.","Example Environmentally Conscious Alternative Product Transaction Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0131","num":"0130"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","150","800","110","116","198","114","156","800","800","114"]},"The process  begins at block , where, for example, the consumption guide processor  accesses customer environmental impact preferences as described above with respect to block . At block , the consumption guide processor  accesses product information associated with the product . The product information can include any product metadata. For example, the product information can include the product: type, name, model, style, ratings, features, location of origin etc. In one embodiment, the product information can be identified from one or more of the following sources: the machine-readable code , the interactive computing system , the product's  manufacturer, shopping environment , a product review organization, or any other third-party source that can provide access to product information.","At block , the consumption guide processor  identifies an alternative product based, at least in part, on the customer environmental impact preferences and the product information. In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor provides the customer environmental impact preferences and the product information to the interactive computing environment . In one embodiment, the consumption guide processor  can use the interactive computing system  to obtain the identity of an alternative product.","In one embodiment, as described with reference to , identifying an alternative product can include identifying one or more products that share one or more attributes with the product . Further, the one or more alternative products can be ranked based, at least in part, on how closely the alternative products satisfy the customer's  environmental impact preferences. The attributes can include any product characteristics associated with the environmental impact of the product. For example, the attributes can include the amount of electricity required to produce and\/or operate the product, the amount of COexpended in producing or using the product, or the amount of recyclable materials used in producing the product, to name a few. In one embodiment, the interactive computing system  determines the alternative products based on attributes associated with the product . The consumption guide processor  can provide the attributes to the interactive computing system , or the interactive computing system  can determines the attributes based on the identity of the product .","At decision block , the consumption guide processor  determines if the alternative product satisfies the customer environmental impact preferences. In one embodiment, decision block  further comprises comparing at least a subset of the product information associated with the alternative product to corresponding information with the product  to obtain a product comparison. For example, the consumption guide processor  can compare the product features and the product ratings to obtain the product comparison.","If the consumption guide processor  determines that the alternative product satisfies the customer environmental impact preferences, the consumption guide processor  causes the alternative product suggestion to be presented to the customer  at block . In one embodiment, presenting the alternative product suggestion includes presenting a price associated with the alternative product. In one embodiment, block  further comprises presenting the product comparison to the customer . In one embodiment, block  further comprises presenting a purchase offer associated with the alternative product to the customer . If the customer  accepts the product offer, the consumption guide processor  can initiate a transaction with, for example, the interactive computing system , to purchase the alternative product.","If the consumption guide processor  determines that the alternative product does not satisfy the customer environmental impact preferences, at block  the consumption guide processor  can identify an environmental impact offset option as described above with respect to block . In one embodiment, the alternative product satisfies more of the customer environmental impact preferences than does the product . In one embodiment, the alternative product is closer than the product  to satisfying the customer environmental impact preferences. Advantageously, in some embodiments, because the alternative product is closer than the product  to satisfying the customer environmental impact preferences, the customer  can reduce the customer's  environmental footprint regardless of whether the alternative product satisfies the customer environmental impact preferences.","At block , the consumption guide processor  causes the environmental impact offset option and the alternative product suggestion to be presented to the customer . In one embodiment, presenting the alternative product suggestion is as described with respect to block . In one embodiment, presenting the environmental impact offset option is as described with respect to block . In one embodiment, presenting the environmental impact offset option and the alternative product suggestion includes presenting a total price calculated based on the price of the alternative product and the price of the environmental impact offset option. In one embodiment, blocks  and  are optional.","At decision block , the consumption guide processor  determines whether the customer  indicated acceptance of a purchase offer for one or more of the alternative product and the environmental impact offset option. This purchase offer can be presented to the customer  as part of block  or . If the customer  accepted the purchase offer, the consumption guide processor  can initiate a transaction to purchase one or more of the alternative product and the environmental impact offset option at block . The consumption guide processor  can initiate this transaction with the interactive computing system , the environmental offsets provider , or any other identified source of the alternative product or environmental impact offset option. In one embodiment, blocks  and  are optional.","Additional Terminology","A number of computing systems have been described throughout this disclosure. The descriptions of these systems are not intended to limit the teachings or applicability of this disclosure. For example, the mobile computing systems described herein can generally include any mobile computing device(s), such as smart phones, PDAs, tablets, or the like. Further, it is possible for the mobile computing systems described herein to be different types of devices, to include different applications, or to otherwise be configured differently. In addition, the mobile computing systems described herein can include any type of operating system (\u201cOS\u201d). For example, the mobile computing systems described herein can implement an Android\u2122 OS, a Windows\u00ae OS, a Mac\u00ae OS, a Linux or Unix-based OS, or the like.","Further, the processing of the various components of the illustrated systems can be distributed across multiple machines, networks, and other computing resources. In addition, two or more components of a system can be combined into fewer components. Further, various components of the illustrated systems can be implemented in one or more virtual machines, rather than in dedicated computer hardware systems. Likewise, the data repositories shown can represent physical and\/or logical data storage, including, for example, storage area networks or other distributed storage systems. Moreover, in some embodiments the connections between the components shown represent possible paths of data flow, rather than actual connections between hardware. While some examples of possible connections are shown, any of the subset of the components shown can communicate with any other subset of components in various implementations.","Depending on the embodiment, certain acts, events, or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence, can be added, merged, or left out all together (e.g., not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms). Moreover, in certain embodiments, acts or events can be performed concurrently, e.g., through multi-threaded processing, interrupt processing, or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures, rather than sequentially.","Each of the various illustrated systems may be implemented as a computing system that is programmed or configured to perform the various functions described herein. The computing system may include multiple distinct computers or computing devices (e.g., physical servers, workstations, storage arrays, etc.) that communicate and interoperate over a network to perform the described functions. Each such computing device typically includes a processor (or multiple processors) that executes program instructions or modules stored in a memory or other non-transitory computer-readable storage medium. The various functions disclosed herein may be embodied in such program instructions, although some or all of the disclosed functions may alternatively be implemented in application-specific circuitry (e.g., ASICs or FPGAs) of the computer system. Where the computing system includes multiple computing devices, these devices may, but need not, be co-located. The results of the disclosed methods and tasks may be persistently stored by transforming physical storage devices, such as solid state memory chips and\/or magnetic disks, into a different state. Each service described, such as those shown in , may be implemented by one or more computing devices, such as one or more physical servers programmed with associated server code.","Conditional language used herein, such as, among others, \u201ccan,\u201d \u201cmight,\u201d \u201cmay,\u201d \u201ce.g.,\u201d and the like, unless specifically stated otherwise, or otherwise understood within the context as used, is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include, while other embodiments do not include, certain features, elements and\/or states. Thus, such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features, elements and\/or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding, with or without author input or prompting, whether these features, elements and\/or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.","While the above detailed description has shown, described, and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments, it will be understood that various omissions, substitutions, and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized, the processes described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein, as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of protection is defined by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Throughout the drawings, reference numbers are re-used to indicate correspondence between referenced elements. The drawings are provided to illustrate embodiments of the inventive subject matter described herein and not to limit the scope thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
