---
title: Booting a mobile electronic device with a low battery based on a dynamic boot threshold
abstract: A method, an apparatus, and a computer program product for booting the apparatus with a low-energy battery are provided. In a first configuration, the apparatus monitors a level of the battery while the battery is charging. The apparatus attempts a boot of the apparatus when the level is greater than or equal to a dynamic boot threshold. The apparatus increases the dynamic boot threshold when the boot is unsuccessful and repeating the monitoring and the attempting based on the increased dynamic boot threshold. In a second configuration, the apparatus detects a connection to an external power source. The apparatus attempts a boot using an FLCB protocol that is based upon power drawn directly from the external power source upon detecting the connection to the external power source. The apparatus attempts the boot as part of an ATC protocol when the boot using the FLCB protocol is unsuccessful.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436479&OS=09436479&RS=09436479
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09436479
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111108
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/433,451, entitled \u201cBOOTING A MOBILE ELECTRONIC DEVICE WITH A LOW-BATTERY BASED ON A DYNAMIC BOOT THRESHOLD\u201d and filed on Jan. 17, 2011, which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","1. Field","The present disclosure relates generally to communication systems, and more particularly, to booting a mobile electronic device with a low battery based on a dynamic boot threshold.","2. Background","Mobile electronic devices conventionally rely upon internal batteries as a primary power source. After a period of using a mobile electronic device, the voltage level of the internal battery falls below a shutdown threshold level and the mobile electronic device shuts down. To boot the mobile electronic device, the internal battery must be charged to a predetermined level before a boot is attempted. Waiting for the internal battery to be charged to the predetermined level before attempting to boot the mobile electronic device may cause the user to wait longer than necessary to use the mobile electronic device. As such a need exists for a method and apparatus for booting with shorter wait times when the battery is low.","In an aspect of the disclosure, a method, an apparatus, and a computer program product for booting the apparatus with a low-energy battery are provided. The apparatus monitors a level of the battery while the battery is charging. In addition, the apparatus attempts a boot of the apparatus when the level is greater than or equal to a dynamic boot threshold. Furthermore, the apparatus increases the dynamic boot threshold when the boot is unsuccessful and repeating the monitoring and the attempting based on the increased dynamic boot threshold.","In an aspect of the disclosure, a method, an apparatus, and a computer program product for booting the apparatus with a low-energy battery are provided. The apparatus detects a connection to an external power source. In addition, the apparatus attempts a boot using an FLCB protocol that is based upon power drawn directly from the external power source upon detecting the connection to the external power source. Furthermore, the apparatus attempts the boot as part of an ATC protocol when the boot using the FLCB protocol is unsuccessful.","The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various configurations and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the concepts described herein may be practiced. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of various concepts. However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that these concepts may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring such concepts.","Several aspects of telecommunication systems will now be presented with reference to various apparatus and methods. These apparatus and methods will be described in the following detailed description and illustrated in the accompanying drawings by various blocks, modules, components, circuits, steps, processes, algorithms, etc. (collectively referred to as \u201celements\u201d). These elements may be implemented using electronic hardware, computer software, or any combination thereof. Whether such elements are implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system.","By way of example, an element, or any portion of an element, or any combination of elements may be implemented with a \u201cprocessing system\u201d that includes one or more processors. Examples of processors include microprocessors, microcontrollers, digital signal processors (DSPs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), programmable logic devices (PLDs), state machines, gated logic, discrete hardware circuits, and other suitable hardware configured to perform the various functionality described throughout this disclosure. One or more processors in the processing system may execute software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions, instruction sets, code, code segments, program code, programs, subprograms, software modules, applications, software applications, software packages, routines, subroutines, objects, executables, threads of execution, procedures, functions, etc., whether referred to as software, firmware, middleware, microcode, hardware description language, or otherwise.","Accordingly, in one or more exemplary embodiments, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or encoded as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes computer storage media. Storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and Blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","114","114","102","102","114","102","104","106","102","108","102","110","110","112"]},"The processor  is responsible for managing the bus  and general processing, including the execution of software stored on the computer-readable medium . The software, when executed by the processor , causes the processing system  to perform the various functions described infra for any particular apparatus. The computer-readable medium  may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor  when executing software.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","100","200","200","112","224","228","226","212","214","104","207","208"]},"The MED  has a platform  that can receive and execute software applications, data, and\/or commands transmitted from an access network that may ultimately come from a core network, the Internet, and\/or other remote servers and networks. The platform  may include a transceiver  operably coupled to the ASIC , or other processor, microprocessor, logic circuit, or other data processing device. The ASIC  or other processor executes the application programming interface (API)  layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory . The platform  also can include a local database  that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database  may be a flash memory cell, but alternatively may be any secondary storage device as known in the art, such as magnetic media, EEPROM, optical media, tape, soft or hard disk, or the like. The platform  components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as the antenna , the display , the push-to-talk button , and the keypad . The platform  may further include an environmental sensor  to which the PMC  is coupled. The PMC  may determine environmental conditions such as an environmental temperature. Based on environmental conditions, the battery type\/identification, and the battery lifetime, the PMC  may control a boot procedure of a MED.","The various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements, software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example, the ASIC , the memory , the API , and the local database  may all be used cooperatively to load, to store, and to execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively, the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore, the features of the MED  in  are to be considered merely illustrative.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["400","405","410","415"]},"The boot procedure is implemented with an auto trickle charge (ATC) protocol, whereby all input power is dedicated to charging the battery of the MED until the battery's voltage level reaches a static boot threshold, after which the power used to boot the MED is drawn from the charging battery and\/or from the external power source. The PMC monitors the battery voltage level (), and when the battery voltage level is above the static boot threshold (), boots the MED (). The static boot threshold is greater than the shutdown voltage level, and is sufficiently high so that the boot of the MED () will occur at a high probability at that voltage level. The static boot threshold is set to a voltage level such that irrespective of the condition of the battery (e.g., battery lifetime, battery type) or environmental conditions (e.g., environmental temperature), a boot of the MED will occur at a high probability. Once booted, the MED is on and can be used while charging continues ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","500","525","500","505","505","505","505","505","510","515","520","520"]},"The battery charger unit A within the PMC A routes power from the adapter interface A to a battery A via a battery charge path A, and also routes power from the adapter interface A to system loads within the MED via a system power path A. The PMC A can forward power from the adapter interface A to power supply outputs A that connect to other system loads that do not draw power directly from the battery A.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","500","535","500","505","505","505","505","510","515","520","520"]},"The battery charger unit B within the PMC B routes power from the adapter interface B over a battery charging path B to a BATFET B, which in turn controls the voltage that is applied to a battery B for charging purposes. The battery charger unit B also routes power directly to system loads via a system power path B. The PMC B can also forward power from the adapter interface B to power supply outputs B that connect to other system loads that do not draw power directly from the battery B.","The implementation of the BATFET B within the battery charging system B permits executing of a fast-low current boot (FLCB) protocol, whereby the input voltage obtained by the adapter interface B is leveraged for booting the MED, instead of relying upon the battery voltage output from the battery B. During an FLCB-based boot, all power or substantially all power from the adapter interface B may be dedicated to the boot procedure, as the battery B may be isolated for charging by the BATFET B.","The FLCB-based boot implemented with the BATFET B, if successful, permits faster boots for MEDs with dead batteries as compared to waiting for the battery voltage to rise to a given voltage level. However, BATFETs are not provisioned in all MEDs, and therefore the FLCB-based boot may not necessarily be available. Also, booting a MED using FLCB can be restricted based on a current or amperage requirement associated with booting the MED. For example, consumption from a USB standard downstream port is typically limited to 100 milliamps until a slave device is successful in securing additional current through enumeration and negotiation with a host device. In this case, 100 milliamps may be insufficient to boot the MED. Thus, the presence of a BATFET does not guarantee successful booting of the MED via the FLCB protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["600","600","520","520","605"]},"If the PMC determines that the voltage level of the battery remains above the shutdown voltage threshold in , the process returns to  and the user can continue to operate the MED. Otherwise, if the PMC determines that the voltage level of the battery is no longer above the shutdown voltage threshold in , the PMC facilitates a shutdown of the MED (). After the MED is shutdown due to the low-battery condition, the user will not be able to operate the MED again until the user replaces the battery or connects the MED to an external power source to charge the existing battery. At some later point in time, assume that the user plugs the MED into an external power source. Accordingly, the PMC detects that the MED is connected to the external power source ().","After detecting the connection to the external power source, the PMC determines whether a BATFET is available for implementing an FLCB-based boot of the MED (). If the PMC determines the BATFET to be available, the PMC isolates (i.e., does not charge) the battery of the MED via the BATFET, and the PMC attempts to boot the MED via the FLCB protocol (). The PMC then determines whether the boot attempt is successful (). If the boot attempt of the MED is successful, the process advances to  whereby the MED can again be operated by the user while the battery begins to charge.","If the PMC determines that no BATFET is available for an FLCB-based boot or the PMC determines the attempted FLCB-based boot is unsuccessful in  (e.g., due to insufficient current from the external power source), the PMC initiates a charging session and begins to charge the battery (). Thus, an unsuccessful FLCB-based boot attempt can be determined and used to trigger a recovery procedure based on an ATC protocol. After beginning the charging session, the PMC initializes a dynamic boot threshold (). The dynamic boot threshold may be initialized to a relatively aggressive (or low) level as compared to the static boot threshold. For example, the dynamic boot threshold may be initialized to a voltage (e.g., 2.8 V) such that a boot of the MED is not guaranteed. The dynamic boot threshold can correspond to a voltage threshold, a capacity threshold, a delivered charge threshold, a time threshold, a threshold related to any other performance metric that can be used to infer a battery's readiness to be used in a boot attempt of the MED, and\/or any combination of a plurality of thresholds.","As discussed supra with respect to , the static boot threshold is set to a relatively conservative setting in order to guarantee that, after waiting for the battery to charge to the static boot threshold, most boots of the MED will be successful irrespective of the condition of the battery or environmental conditions. By contrast, the dynamic boot threshold in  may be established aggressively such that boot attempts of some MEDs may fail (at least at first) while other MEDs may achieve a successful boot at an earlier point in time as compared to . Thus, as an example, the dynamic boot threshold may be initialized in  to a level at which a new, modern battery may be expected to successfully boot the MED in an ideal operating environment (e.g., warm temperature). In one configuration, the dynamic boot threshold may be based in part upon current environmental conditions. For example, if the MED is currently in an especially cold environment (e.g., determined by the PMC based on sensor data reported from the environmental sensors ), the dynamic boot threshold may be initialized to a somewhat higher or less aggressive value as compared to when the MED is in a warmer environment.","After loading the initial value of the dynamic boot threshold (), the PMC continues charging the battery and begins to monitor the battery during the charging session (). If the dynamic boot threshold is a voltage threshold, the PMC monitors the voltage level of the battery in . If the dynamic boot threshold is a capacity threshold, the PMC monitors a capacity of the battery (e.g., based upon Coulomb counting) in . If the dynamic boot threshold is a delivered charge threshold, the PMC monitors a charge being delivered by the battery (e.g., based upon Coulomb counting) in . If the dynamic boot threshold is a time threshold, the PMC monitors the amount of time that the battery has been charging (e.g., using a timer or counter include within and\/or coupled to the PMC) in . The PMC compares the monitored level of the battery during the charging session with the dynamic boot threshold ().","When the PMC determines that the monitored level of the battery is greater than or equal to the dynamic boot threshold in , the PMC facilitates a boot attempt of the MED (). If the PMC determines that the boot attempt of the MED is not successful in , the PMC increases the dynamic boot threshold (). The PMC may increase the dynamic boot threshold () by incrementing the dynamic boot threshold. For example, the PMC may increment the dynamic boot threshold by 100 mV, from 2.8 V to 2.9 V, or may increment the dynamic boot threshold by 1 minute from 2 minutes to 3 minutes. In one configuration, the increment of  may set the dynamic boot threshold to a level corresponding to the static boot threshold from  of  in order to guarantee success on a second boot attempt of the MED. In another configuration, the increment of  can set the dynamic boot threshold to an intermediate level between the initial level (from ) and the static boot threshold from  of . For example, the increment I of  may be equal to the difference between the static boot threshold Tfrom  and the initial dynamic boot threshold Tfrom  divided by N, for integer N: I=(T\u2212T)\/N. Setting the increment to I, increments the initial dynamic boot threshold from  to the static boot threshold from  after N increments. In a worst-case scenario, multiple boot attempts of the MED (e.g., N) may be attempted based on different values of the dynamic boot threshold before a successful boot.","In one configuration, the magnitude of the increments between boot-attempt iterations during the process of  can be the same or different between increment boot attempt cycles and\/or from one execution of  to another execution of . For example, in \u201cnormal\u201d environment conditions, the magnitude of each increment at  may correspond to a default level. Alternatively, the magnitude of each increment at  can be variable or dynamic. For example, if the PMC determines that the MED is in a relatively cold environment, the size of the increments at  may be increased so that the battery is granted more time to charge before another boot attempt is made.","Upon incrementing the dynamic boot threshold in , the process returns to  whereby the PMC continues to charge and to monitor the battery in  until the monitored level is determined to be greater than or equal to the incremented dynamic boot threshold in . After one or more iterations of the procedure shown between  and , the PMC determines that the MED has booted successfully and the MED can again be operated by the user while the battery continues to charge ().","The PMC can optionally update the initialization level of the dynamic boot threshold and\/or an increment magnitude for a subsequent boot attempt of the MED from a dead-battery or low-battery condition (). For example, the initialization level of the dynamic boot threshold (i.e., the starting point or initial voltage level of the iterative boot procedure of  that is loaded at ) can be set to the level at which a successful boot of the MED was actually achieved in a previous boot procedure. In another example, if a high number of boot attempts were made before a successful boot was achieved during the procedure of , the increment magnitude at  may be increased so that the MED is allocated more charging time between each boot attempt during a subsequent boot procedure.","Alternatively, the initialization level of the dynamic boot threshold and\/or increment magnitude need not be updated. For example, historical boot performance may not always be a good indicator of future boot performance for a MED with a low battery or a dead battery. If a user replaces an old, poorly-performing battery on the MED with a newer battery, future boots may occur more quickly. Also, if the user moves from a poor-performance climate to a high-performance climate, future boots may occur more quickly. Thus, depending on the implementation, the initialization level of the dynamic boot threshold and\/or increment magnitude can either be updated based on historical performance or can remain unchanged. Furthermore, at , the PMC may determine to decrease the initialization level of the dynamic boot threshold due to more favorable conditions, such as a new battery with a shorter battery lifetime, new battery of a different battery type, a more favorable environmental temperature, and\/or one or more successful first boot attempts at .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["700","700","520","520","705"]},"If the PMC determines that the voltage level of the battery remains above the shutdown voltage threshold in , the process returns to  and the user can continue to operate the MED. Otherwise, if the PMC determines that the voltage level of the battery is no longer above the shutdown voltage threshold in , the PMC facilitates a shutdown of the MED (). After the MED is shutdown due to the low-battery condition, the user will not be able to operate the MED again until the user replaces the battery or connects the MED to an external power source to charge the existing battery. At some later point in time, assume that the user plugs the MED into an external power source. Accordingly, the PMC detects that the MED is connected to the external power source ().","After detecting the connection to the external power source, the PMC determines whether a BATFET is available for implementing an FLCB-based boot of the MED (). If the PMC determines the BATFET to be available, the PMC isolates (i.e., does not charge) the battery of the MED via the BATFET, and the PMC attempts to boot the MED via the FLCB protocol (). The PMC then determines whether the boot attempt is successful (). If the boot attempt of the MED is successful, the process advances to  whereby the MED can again be operated by the user while the battery begins to charge.","If the PMC determines that no BATFET is available for an FLCB-based boot or the PMC determines the attempted FLCB-based boot is unsuccessful in  (e.g., due to insufficient current from the external power source), the PMC initiates a charging session and begins to charge the battery (). Thus, an unsuccessful FLCB-based boot attempt can be determined and used to trigger a recovery procedure based on an ATC protocol. After beginning the charging session, the PMC initializes a boot threshold (). The boot threshold may be initialized to a relatively conservative voltage level as compared to dynamic boot threshold at  of . The PMC loads the boot threshold with a relatively conservative setting in an attempt to achieve a high likelihood of boot success on the first boot attempt in . In one configuration, the boot threshold may be set to the static boot threshold of  of . The setting of the boot threshold may be based on the environmental conditions, as the PMC may load a relatively conservative setting when the environmental conditions are less favorable, and a less conservative setting when the environmental conditions are more favorable, while still guaranteeing a high likelihood of boot success on the first boot attempt in . After loading the initial value of the boot threshold (), the PMC continues charging the battery and begins to monitor the battery during the charging session (). Similar to the dynamic boot threshold, the boot threshold of  may be a voltage threshold, capacity threshold, delivered charge threshold, a time threshold, a threshold related to any other performance metric that can be used to infer a battery's readiness to be used in a boot attempt of the MED, and\/or any combination of a plurality of thresholds. The PMC compares the monitored threshold of the battery during the charging session with the dynamic boot threshold (). When the PMC determines that the monitored threshold of the battery is greater than or equal to the boot threshold in , the PMC facilitates a boot attempt of the MED (). After the successful boot, the MED is on and can be used while the battery is charged ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6"],"b":["800","100","100","804","100","806","100","802","804","806"]},"The monitored level may include at least one of a voltage level, a capacity level, a delivered charge level, or a time duration in which the battery is charged. The dynamic boot threshold may include at least one of a voltage threshold, a capacity threshold, a delivered charge threshold, or a time threshold. The boot threshold module  may be configured to initialize the dynamic boot threshold based on at least one of a lowest dynamic boot threshold in which the boot can be successful, a previous dynamic boot threshold at which the boot was successful, a battery lifetime, a battery type, or environmental conditions. The boot threshold module  may initialize the dynamic boot threshold by adjusting the previous dynamic boot threshold based on at least one of the battery lifetime, the battery type, or the environmental conditions. The boot threshold module  may initialize the dynamic boot threshold by setting the dynamic boot threshold to a level such that the attempted boot is successful under favorable conditions and potentially unsuccessful under unfavorable conditions.","The boot module  may be configured to detect a connection to an external power source and, upon detecting the connection to the external power source, to attempt the boot using an FLCB protocol that is based upon power drawn directly from the external power source. When the attempted boot using the FLCB protocol is unsuccessful, the battery level monitoring module , the boot module , and the boot threshold module  may be configured to perform the monitoring, boot attempt, and boot threshold increasing steps, respectively. The battery level monitoring module  and the boot module  may be implemented as part of an ATC protocol. The boot threshold module  may be configured to increase the dynamic boot threshold by incrementing the dynamic boot threshold by an increment value. The boot threshold module  may adjust the increment value based on at least one of a battery lifetime, a battery type, or environmental conditions.","The battery level monitoring module  may be configured to monitor a voltage level of the battery while the battery is not charging. The boot module  may be configured to shut down the MED when the voltage level is less than or equal to a shutdown voltage level. The level may be a voltage level of the battery, the dynamic boot threshold may be a dynamic boot voltage threshold, and the dynamic boot voltage threshold may be greater than the shutdown voltage level.","In a second configuration (see also ), the apparatus \u2032 includes a boot module  that is configured to detect a connection to an external power source and to attempt a boot using an FLCB protocol that is based upon power drawn directly from the external power source upon detecting the connection to the external power source. The apparatus \u2032 further includes a boot threshold module  and a battery level monitoring module  that together with the boot module  are configured to attempt the boot as part of an ATC protocol when the boot using the FLCB protocol is unsuccessful.","The battery level monitoring module  may be configured to monitor a level of the battery while the battery is charging. The boot module  may be configured to attempt the boot of the MED when the level is greater than or equal to a boot threshold. The monitored level may include at least one of a voltage level, a capacity level, a delivered charge level, or a time duration in which the battery is charged. The boot threshold may include at least one of a voltage threshold, a capacity threshold, a delivered charge threshold, or a time threshold. The boot threshold module  may be configured to initialize the boot threshold based on a threshold in which the boot will be successful with a high probability. The boot threshold module  may be configured to initialize the boot threshold further based on at least one of a battery lifetime, a battery type, or environmental conditions.","The battery level monitoring module  may be configured to monitor a voltage level of the battery while the battery is not charging. The boot module  may be configured to shut down the MED when the voltage level is less than or equal to a shutdown voltage level. The level may be a voltage level of the battery, the boot threshold may be a boot voltage threshold, and the boot voltage threshold may be greater than the shutdown voltage level.","The apparatus \u2032 may include additional modules that perform each of the steps in the aforementioned flow charts. As such, each step in the aforementioned flow charts may be performed by a module and the apparatus \u2032 may include one or more of those modules.","While the first and second exemplary boot procedures are described with respect to a MED with a single battery, the exemplary boot procedures are applicable to a MED with two or more batteries. In a first configuration, the apparatus \/\u2032 for booting with a low-energy battery includes means for monitoring a level of the battery while the battery is charging, means for attempting a boot of the apparatus when the level is greater than or equal to a dynamic boot threshold, and means for increasing the dynamic boot threshold when the boot is unsuccessful and repeating the monitoring and the attempting based on the increased dynamic boot threshold. The apparatus may further include means for initializing the dynamic boot threshold based on at least one of a lowest dynamic boot threshold in which the boot can be successful, a previous dynamic boot threshold at which the boot was successful, a battery lifetime, a battery type, or environmental conditions. The apparatus may further include means for detecting a connection to an external power source, means for attempting the boot using an FLCB protocol that is based upon power drawn directly from the external power source upon detecting the connection to the external power source, and means for performing the monitoring, the attempting, and the increasing steps when the attempted boot using the FLCB protocol is unsuccessful. The apparatus may further include means for adjusting the increment value based on at least one of a battery lifetime, a battery type, or environmental conditions. The apparatus may further include means for monitoring a voltage level of the battery while the battery is not charging, and means for shutting down the apparatus when the voltage level is less than or equal to a shutdown voltage level. The aforementioned means may be one or more of the aforementioned modules of the apparatus \u2032 (see ), the processing system  (see ), and\/or the PMC  (see ) configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means in conjunction with the boot procedure of .","In a second configuration, the apparatus \/\u2032 for booting with a low-energy battery includes means for detecting a connection to an external power source, means for attempting a boot using an FLCB protocol that is based upon power drawn directly from the external power source upon detecting the connection to the external power source, and means for attempting the boot as part of an ATC protocol when the boot using the FLCB protocol is unsuccessful. The apparatus may further include means for monitoring a level of the battery while the battery is charging, and means for attempting the boot of the apparatus when the level is greater than or equal to a boot threshold. The apparatus may further include means for initializing the boot threshold based on a threshold in which the boot will be successful with a high probability. The apparatus may further include means for monitoring a voltage level of the battery while the battery is not charging, and means for shutting down the apparatus when the voltage level is less than or equal to a shutdown voltage level. The aforementioned means may be one or more of the aforementioned modules of the apparatus \u2032 (see ), the processing system  (see ), and\/or the PMC  (see ) configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means in conjunction with the boot procedure of .","It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences, it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order, and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.","The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus, the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein, but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims, wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean \u201cone and only one\u201d unless specifically so stated, but rather \u201cone or more.\u201d Unless specifically stated otherwise, the term \u201csome\u201d refers to one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover, nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed as a means plus function unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase \u201cmeans for.\u201d"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
