---
title: System and method for provisioning a mobile wireless communications device, including indicators representative of image and sound data
abstract: A system provisions a mobile wireless communications device for indicating account or device specific characteristics. A database stores a plurality of indicators that are indicative of different wireless carriers, email service providers and device types. A configuration module accesses the database and uploads an indicator that is indicative of at least one of the wireless carriers, email service providers or device types to the mobile wireless communications device upon provisioning. The indicator can comprise at least sound data for a ringing sound on the mobile wireless communications device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08315603&OS=08315603&RS=08315603
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08315603
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20111115
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 11\/389,907 filed Mar. 27, 2006, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,081,970 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention relates to the field of communications systems, and, more particularly, to electronic mail (email) communications systems and related methods.","Electronic mail (email) has become an integral part of business and personal communications. As such, many users have multiple email accounts for work and home use. Moreover, with the increased availability of mobile cellular and wireless local area network (LAN) devices that can send and receive emails, many users wirelessly access emails from mailboxes stored on different email storage servers (e.g., corporate email storage server, Yahoo, Hotmail, AOL, etc.).","Yet, email distribution and synchronization across multiple mailboxes and over wireless networks can be quite challenging, particularly when this is done on a large scale for numerous users. For example, different email accounts may be configured differently and with non-uniform access criteria. Moreover, as emails are received at the wireless communications device, copies of the emails may still be present in the original mailboxes, which can make it difficult for users to keep their email organized.","One particularly advantageous \u201cpush\u201d type email distribution and synchronization system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,779,019 to Mousseau et al., which is assigned to the present Assignee and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. This system pushes user-selected data items from a host system to a user's mobile wireless communications device upon detecting the occurrence of one or more user-defined event triggers. The user may then move (or file) the data items to a particular folder within a folder hierarchy stored in the mobile wireless communications device, or may execute some other system operation on a data item. Software operating at the device and the host system then synchronizes the folder hierarchy of the device with a folder hierarchy of the host system, and any actions executed on the data items at the device are then automatically replicated on the same data items stored at the host system, thus eliminating the need for the user to manually replicate actions at the host system that have been executed at the mobile wireless communications device.","The foregoing system advantageously provides great convenience to users of wireless email communication devices for organizing and managing their email messages. Yet, further convenience and efficiency features may be desired in email distribution and synchronization systems as email usage continues to grow in popularity. Currently, many mobile wireless communication devices come preloaded with generic icons for functions such as a phone, in-box or other functions. Many third party email service providers, however, would like to have their own icons for email pushed to the mobile wireless communications device from their email service. This is also beneficial to allow users to sort which mail came from which account by using display characteristics. Because different wireless carriers or email service providers have different icons, themes, colors, styles display characteristics, or ringing styles and since different devices have different resolutions or fonts, it is difficult to preinstall all potential icons on every type of device that a user might require in order to display account or device-specific characteristics. When an external email account is provisioned on a mobile wireless communication device, it may require its own application entry point to appear on a ribbon and elsewhere on the mobile wireless communications device, such as read\/unread icons in a message list. It may be desirable to retrieve branded\/theme content using an HTTP service. An example of a system that changes some display characteristics such as color is disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/237,077, filed Sep. 28, 2005.","Different embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments are shown. Many different forms can be set forth and described embodiments should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.","A system provisions a mobile wireless communications device for indicating account or device specific characteristics. A database stores a plurality of indicators that are indicative of different wireless carriers, email service providers, and device types. A configuration module accesses the database and uploads an indicator that is indicative of at least one of the wireless carriers, email service providers or device types to the mobile wireless communications device upon provisioning of the mobile wireless communications device to access email from a remote location. The indicator comprises at least sound data for a ringing sound on the mobile wireless communications device.","In another aspect, the indicator can be formed as image data, including data for focused and unfocused ribbon icons and read and unread message icons. The system can include a portable networks graphics (PNG) image map that contains image data. The image data could include color to be displayed on the mobile wireless communications device. The image data could also be for a font size, font typeface, graphics, text, icons or resolution to be displayed on the mobile wireless communications device. The sound data for a ringing sound can be formed of at least sound data for a ringing tune and loudness. The indicator could be data for a ribbon icon. A service book application data can contain a uniform resource locator (URL) that indicates where service-specific content for an indicator can be downloaded.","In yet another aspect, a system provisions a mobile wireless communications device and indicates account or device specific characteristics. A database stores a portable network graphics (PNG) image map and sound data for a ringing sound used on a mobile wireless communications device. The image map has image data and the image data and sound data comprise indicators that are indicative of different wireless carriers, email service providers and device types. An entry point content service is operative with the database for uploading indicators to a mobile wireless communications device. It includes service book application data containing a uniform resource locator (URL) that indicates where a service-specific content for an indicator can be downloaded.","A method aspect is also set forth.","Referring initially to , a direct access (DA) email distribution and synchronization system  allows direct access to different mail sources, allowing messages to be transferred directly to a mobile wireless handheld device from a source mailbox. As a result, different mail stores need not be used for integrated external source mail accounts, and a permanent copy of an email in a local email store is not required.","Although this diagram depicts objects as functionally separate, such depiction is merely for illustrative purposes. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the objects portrayed in this figure can be arbitrarily combined or divided into separate software, firmware or hardware components. Furthermore, it will also be apparent to those skilled in the art that such objects, regardless of how they are combined or divided, can execute on the same computing device or can be arbitrarily distributed among different computing devices connected by one or more networks.","The direct access system  enables email users or subscribers to have email from third party email services pushed to various mobile wireless communications devices . Users need not create a handheld email account to gain direct access to an existing external email account. The direct access system  may operate without performing aggregation as used in some prior art systems, in which emails are aggregated from multiple different source mailboxes to a single target mailbox. In other words, email need not be stored in an intermediate target mailbox, but instead may advantageously be accessed directly from a source mail store.","As illustrated in , the direct access system  illustratively includes a Web client (WC) engine  and a mobile office platform (MOP) . These Web client engine  and mobile office platform  operate together to provide users with direct access to their email from mobile wireless communications devices  via one or more wireless communications networks , for example. Both the Web client engine  and the mobile office platform  may be located at the same location or at separate locations, and implemented in one or more servers. The web client engine  illustratively includes a port agent  for communicating with the wireless communications devices  via the wireless communications network(s) , a worker , a supervisor , and an attachment server , which will be discussed further below. An alert server  is shown in dashed lines, and in one preferred embodiment, is not used, but could be part of the system in yet other embodiments.","The mobile office platform  illustratively includes a DA proxy , and a proxy application programming interface (API)  and a cache  cooperating with the DA proxy. The mobile office platform  also illustratively includes a load balance and cache (LBAC) module , an event server , a universal proxy (UP) Servlet , an AggCron module , a mobile office platform (MOP) engine , and a database (DB) engine , which will be discussed in further detail below. The Least Recently Used (LRU) cache  caches new messages, and can release messages and objects that were least recently used.","The supervisor  processes new mail notifications that it receives from the direct access proxy . It then assigns a job, in the form of a User Datagram Protocol (UDP) packet, to the least-loaded worker , according to the most recent UDP heartbeat the supervisor  has received. For purposes of this description, heartbeat is a tool that monitors the state of the server. Additionally, the supervisor  will receive a new service book request from the direct access proxy  to send service books to the mobile wireless communication device for new or changed accounts. A service book can be a class that could contain all service records currently defined. This class can be used to maintain a collection of information about the device, such as connection information or services, such as an email address of the account.","The worker  is an intermediary processing agent between the supervisor  and the port agent , and responsible for most processing in the Web client engine . It will retrieve e-mail from a universal proxy , via a direct access proxy, and format e-mail in Compressed Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension (CMIME) as a type of Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension, and send it to the port agent , for further processing. Its responsibilities include the following tasks: (1) messages sent to and received from the handheld; (2) message reply, forward and more requests; (3) Over The Air Folder Management operation (OTAFM); (4) attachment viewing; and (5) service book.","The port agent  acts as a transport layer between the infrastructure and the rest of the Web client engine . It is responsible for delivering packets to and from the mobile wireless communications device. To support different integrated mailboxes with one device, more than one service book can be used, and each service book can be associated with one integrated mailbox. A port agent  can include one Server Relay Protocol (SRP) connection to a relay, but it can also handle multiple SRP connections, and each connection may have a unique Globally Unique Identifier (GUID) associated with a service book. The attachment server  provides service for document\/attachment conversion requests from workers .","The direct access proxy  provides a Web-based Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV) interface that is used by the worker  to access account and mailbox information. This provides functionality to create, change and move documents on a remote server, e.g., a Web server. The direct access proxy  typically will present an asynchronous interface to its clients. The LBAC module  is used by a notification server and the Web client engine  components to locate the proper DA proxy for the handling of a request. The universal proxy Servlet  abstracts access to disparate mail stores into a common protocol. The event server  responds to notifications of new messages from corporate servers  and\/or mail service providers , which may be received via the Internet , for example. The notifications are communicated to the direct access proxy  by the AggCron module  and the event server  so that it may initiate checking for new mail on source mailboxes ,  of the mail service providers  and\/or corporate servers . The proxy API can be a Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Daemon  and is the primary interface into a database , which is the primary data store for the mobile office platform . The AggCron module  may also periodically initiate polling for new messages as well.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["40","40","72","74","76"]},"The identifier module  provides a centralized authentication service for the direct access system  and other services. An authentication handshake may be provided between an ID service and direct access system  to ensure that users have the proper credentials before they are allowed access to the direct access system . The ability to switch from managing a Web client to a direct access system, or vice versa, may occur without requiring the user to re-enter any login credentials. Any Web client and direct access may share session management information on behalf of a user.","The WAP proxy  provides a wireless markup language (WML)-based user interface for configuring source mailboxes with the mobile office platform . The HTML proxy  provides an HTML-based user interface for configuring of source mailboxes in the MOP . The proxy API  (SOAP Daemon) is the primary interface into the database . The engine  is a protocol translator that connects to a source mailbox to validate configuration parameters. The database  is the primary user data store for the mobile office platform .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["80","82","84","80","34","32","30","86","30"]},"The engine machine  illustratively includes a direct access proxy , HTML proxy , WAP proxy , Proxy Delivery Service (PDS) module , UP Servlet , LBAC module , a sendmail module , an secure mail client (SMC) server , a secure sockets layer (SSL) proxy , an aggregation engine , and event server . The SMC server  cooperates with corresponding SMC modules resident on certain corporate networks, for example, to convey email data between the mobile office platform  and source mailboxes. The database machine  may include an aggregation application programming interface (API)  as a SOAP Daemon, an administration console , an aggregation database , the AggCron module , an SMC directory server , and a send mail module .","The various components of the Web client engine  may be configured to run on different machines or servers.","The component binaries and configuration files may either be placed in a directory on the network or placed on a local disk that can be accessed to allow the appropriate components to run from each machine. In accordance with one exemplary implementation, deployment may include one supervisor, two workers, and one port agent for supporting , external source mailboxes, although other configurations may also be used. Actual production deployment may depend on the results of load, performance and stress testing, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.","For the mobile office platform  direct access components, modules and various functions, machines are typically installed in two configurations, namely engine machines () and database machines (). While these machines may have all of the above-described components installed on them, not all of these components need be active in all applications (e.g., aggregation may be used with systems that do not support push technology, etc.). Once again, actual production deployment may depend on the results of load, performance and stress testing.","The mobile office platform  architecture in one known technique advantageously uses a set of device\/language-specific eXtensible Stylesheet Language (XSL) files, which transform application data into presentation information. In one non-limiting example, a build process takes a non-localized XSL and generates a localized XSL for each supported language. When the XSL is used, it is \u201ccompiled\u201d in memory and cached for repeated use. The purpose of pre-localizing and caching the templates is to reduce the CPU cycles required to generate a presentation page.","Branding may also be performed. Initially, a localized XSL may build a WAP application to access aggregated email accounts. A WAP proxy application may be localizable and support multiple WAP devices. For each logical page of an application, a device-specific XSL may be created, which may be localized for each language\/country supported. This rendering scheme may support not only WAP devices, but also SMTP, HTML and POP proxies, for example. In branding, each page of a given application may be customized for each different brand.","The branding of a page may be accomplished through XSL imports, including the use of a Java application programming interface (API) for Extensible Mark-up Language (XML) processing (JAXP) feature to resolve the imports dynamically. This need not require that each combined page\/brand template be compiled and cached. By way of example, in a sample template directory, first and second pages for a single language\/country may be combined with branded counterparts to generate a plurality of distinct template combinations. It is also possible to profile memory requirements of an application by loading templates for a single language, device\/application and brand. An HTML device may include a set of templates that are large compared to other devices.","In one known technique, the mobile office platform  advantageously builds processes and takes non-localized files and language-specific property files and combines them to make each non-localized XSL into an XSL for each supported language. A separate XSL for each language need not be used, and the language factor may be removed from the memory usage equation. A JAXP API may be used to extend XSL with Java classes. The extensions may take various forms, for example, including extension elements and extension functions. A template may be transformed by creating and initializing an extension object with a locale and passing an object to a transformer. The system can remove multiple imports and use less memory. HTML templates can use template importing to enable template reuse, much like Java classes, and reuse other Java classes through a mechanism like derivation or importing.","In the direct access system , users receive email on their mobile wireless communications devices  from multiple external accounts, and when replying to a received message, the reply-to and sent-from address integrity is preserved. For example, for a user that has an integrated Yahoo! account (user@yahoo.com) and a POP3 account (user@pop3.com), if they receive an email at user@yahoo.com, their replies generated from the device  will appear to come from user@yahoo.com. Similarly, if a user receives an email at user@pop3.com, their replies will appear to come from user@pop3.com.","Selection of the \u201csent from\u201d address is also available to a user that composes new messages. The user will have the ability to select the \u201csent from\u201d address when composing a new message. Depending on the source mailbox type and protocol, the message may also be sent through the source mail service. This functionality can be supported by sending a configuration for each source mailbox, for example, as a non-limiting example, a service book for each source mailbox ,  to the mobile wireless communications device .","As noted above, a service book is a class that may include all service records currently defined. This class may be used to maintain a collection of information about the device, such as connection information. The service book may be used to manage HTTP connections and mail (CMIME) information such as account and hierarchy. At mobile wireless communications devices , a delete service book request may be sent when a source mailbox ,  is removed from the account. The service book may also be resent to the device  with a viewable name that gives the user some indication that the selection is no longer valid.","A sent items folder may also be \u201csynchronized.\u201d Any device-originated sent messages may be propagated to a source account and stored in a sent mail folder, for example. Also, messages deleted on the device  may correspondingly be deleted from the source mailbox , . Another example is that device-originated marking of a message as read or unread on the device  may similarly be propagated to the source mailbox , . While the foregoing features are described as source-dependent and synchronizing one-way, in some embodiments certain synchronization features may in addition, or instead, propagate from the source mailbox\/account to the handheld device, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.","When available, the mail service provider or corporate mail server may be used for submission of outgoing messages. While this may not be possible for all mail service providers or servers, it is preferably used when available as it may provide several advantages. For example, subscribers to AOL will get the benefit of AOL-specific features like parental controls. Furthermore, AOL and Yahoo users, as non-limiting examples, will see messages in their sent items folder, and messages routed in this manner may be more compliant with new spam policies such as Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and Sender Id. In addition, messages sent via corporate mail servers  will have proper name resolution both at the global address list level and the personal level. It should be understood, however, that the use of the mail service provider  to deliver mail may be dependant on partner agreements and\/or protocol, depending upon the given implementation.","The architecture described above also advantageously allows for features such as on-demand retrieval of message bodies and attachments and multiple folder support. Moreover, a \u201cthis-is-spam\u201d button or indicator may be used allowing company labels and other service provider-specific features when supported by an underlying protocol, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.","One particular advantage of the direct access system  is that a user need not configure an account before integrating additional accounts. However, a standalone email address may be used, and this address advantageously need not be tied to a mailbox size which the subscriber is required to manage. For example, the email account may be managed by an administrator, and any mail could be purged from the system after a pre-determined period of time (i.e., time-based auto-aging with no mailbox limit for all users).","Additionally, all aspects of any integrated email account creation, settings and options may advantageously be available to the user from their mobile wireless communications device . Thus, users need not visit an HTML site and change a setting, create a filter, or perform similar functions, for example. Of course, an HTML site may optionally be used.","As a system Internet email service with the direct access system  grows, ongoing emphasis may advantageously be placed on the administrative site to provide additional information to carrier administrators, support teams, and similar functions. However, in some instances a mail connector may be installed on a personal computer, and this functionality may not always be available from the mobile wireless communications device.","The Web client engine  may advantageously support different features including message to handheld (MTH), message from handheld (MFH), forward\/reply a message, request to view more for a large message (e.g., larger than 2K), request viewing message attachment, and over the air folder management (OTAFM). These functions are explained below.","For an MTH function, each email account integrated for a user is linked with the user device through a Web client service book. For each new message that arrives in the Web client user mailbox, a notification that contains the new message information will typically be sent to a Web client engine supervisor component (), which in turn will assign the job to an available worker with the least load in the system. The chosen worker  will validate the user information and retrieve the new message from the user source mailbox and deliver it to the user device.","In an MFH function, MFH messages associated with a Web client service book are processed by the Web client engine  and delivered to the Internet  by the worker  via the simple mail transfer protocol (SMTP) or native outbox. If a user turns on the option to save the sent message to the sent items folder, the direct access proxy will save a copy of the sent message to this folder.","In a Forward\/Reply\/More function, the user can forward or reply an MTH or MFH message from the mobile wireless communications device  as long as the original message still existed in the direct access proxy cache or in user mailbox. For MTH, the worker  may send the first 2K, for example, or the whole message (whatever is less) to the user device. If the message is larger than 2K, the user can request MORE to view the next 2K of the message. In this case, the worker  will process the More request by retrieving the original message from the user source mailbox, and send back the 2K that the device requests. Of course, in some embodiments more than 2K of message text (or the entire message) may be sent.","In an attachment-viewing function, a user can view a message attachment of a popular document format (e.g., MS Word, MS Power Point, MS Excel, Word Perfect, PDF, text, etc.) or image format (GIF, JPEG, etc). Upon receiving the attachment-viewing request, which is implemented in a form of the more request in this example, the worker  can fetch the original message from the user source mailbox via the direct access proxy, extract the requested attachment, process it and send result back to the user device. The processing requires that the original message has not been deleted from the user Web client mailbox.","In the save sent message to sent items folder function, if the user turns this option on, the worker  places a copy of each MFH message sent from the user device in the user sent items folder in the mailbox. In over the air folder management, the Web client OTAFM service maintains any messages and folders in the user mailbox synchronized with the user device over the air.","Whenever a message in the user source mailbox is Moved\/Deleted, the associated message on the device may also be Moved\/Deleted accordingly, and vice-versa. When a message is Moved\/Deleted on the device, the associated message in the user Web client mailbox may also be Moved\/Deleted accordingly. Similarly, when a folder is Added\/Removed\/Renamed from the user Web client mailbox, the associated folder on the device may be Added\/Removed\/Renamed, and vice-versa.","The system  may advantageously support different subsets of various messaging features. For example, in the message to handheld function, the mobile office platform  may be responsible for connecting to the various source mailboxes ,  to detect new emails. For each new mail, a notification is sent to the Web client engine  and, based on this notification, the supervisor  chooses one of the workers  to process that email. The chosen worker will fetch additional account information and the contents of the mail message from the direct access proxy  and deliver it to the user device .","In a message sent from handheld function, the MFH could be given to the direct access proxy  from the Web client worker . In turn, the mobile office platform  delivers a message to the Internet  by sending through a native outbox or sending it via SMTP. It should be understood, however, that the native outbox, whenever possible, may provide a better user experience, especially when taking into account current anti-spam initiatives such as SPF and sender Id.","In a message deleted from handheld function, when a message is deleted from the device , the Web client engine  notifies the mobile office platform  via the direct access proxy . As such, the mobile office platform  can delete the same message on the source mailbox.","When handling More\/Forward\/Reply\/Attachment viewing requests, the Web client worker  may request an original mail from the direct access proxy . It will then process the request and send the results to the mobile wireless communications device . The architecture may additionally support on-demand retrieval of message parts and other upgrades, for example.","Upon the integration of a new source mailbox , , the service book notification from the alert server  may be sent to the supervisor , which assigns this notification to a worker  for sending out a service record to the device. Each source mailbox ,  may be associated with a unique service record. In this way, each MFH message is linked with a source mailbox ,  based on the service record on the device.","The system  may also poll the integrated external mailboxes periodically to check for new mail and to access any messages. The system  may further incorporate optimizations for polling bandwidth from an aggregation component allowing a quick poll. The system  can also advantageously support a large active user base and incorporate a rapidly growing user base.","The topology of load balancing can be based on the size of a component's queue and its throughput. These load statistics can be monitored by a mechanism in one example called the MP Heartbeat, as described before. If a component is overloaded or has a large queue size, the component will have less chance to get an assigned job from other components. In contrast, a component will get more assigned jobs if it completes more jobs in the last few hours than other components. With this mechanism, the load could distribute over heterogeneous machine hardware, i.e., components running on less power machines will be assigned fewer jobs than those on machines with more power hardware.","General load balancing for any mobile office platform components can be accomplished through the use of a load balancer module, for example, a BIG-IP module produced by F5 Networks of Seattle, Wash. BIG-IP can provide load balancing and intelligent layer 7 switching, and can handle traffic routing from the Internet to any customer interfacing components such as the WAP and HTML proxies. The use of a BIG-IP or similar module may provide the application with pooling capabilities, fault tolerance and session management, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.","Typically, access to a single source mailbox ,  can be from a single direct access proxy  over a persistent connection. Any requests on behalf of a particular user could persist to the same machine in the same direct access clustered partition. As certain components are system-wide and will be handling work for users across many partitions, these components can be designed to determine which direct access partition to communicate with on a request-by-request basis.","The load balancer and cache (LBAC)  may support this function. The LBAC  is a system-wide component that can perform two important functions. The first of these function is that it provides a mapping from the device PIN to a particular direct access proxy , while caching the information in memory for both fast access and to save load on the central database. Secondly, as the direct access proxy  will be run in clustered partitions, the LBAC  may distribute the load across all direct access proxies within any partition.","The LBAC  can be formed of different components. For example, the code which performs the load balancing can be an extended version of a secure mail connector. The code can also perform lookups to the central database and cache the results (LBAC).","In one non-limiting example, when a worker requires that a direct access proxy  perform work, it provides the LBAC  with a device PIN. The LBAC  will discover which partition that PIN is associated with by looking in its cache, or retrieving the partition identifier from a central database (and caching the result). Once the partition is known, the LBAC  then consults its cache to see which direct access proxy in that partition has been designated to handle requests for that PIN. If no mapping exists, the LBAC requests the PDS to create a new association on the least loaded DA proxy  (again caching the result). Finally, the LBAC  responds to the worker  with the connection information for the proper direct access proxy to handle that particular request.","The secure mail connector  may run in failover pairs, where one is an active master and the other is a secondary standby. Internal data structures may be replicated in real-time from the master to the standby. Multiple LBACs  can be run for scalability and fault tolerance, but typically would require an external connection balancing component, such as the BIG-IP component as explained before.","A receiving component in the Web client engine  saves the job that has been assigned to it from other components to a job store on the disk before processing. It can update the status of the job and remove the job from the job store when the job processing is completed. In case of component failure or if the process is restarted, it can recover the jobs from the job store and, based on the current statuses of these jobs, continue processing these jobs to the next state, saving the time to reprocess them from the beginning.","Any recovery from the standpoint of MTH\/MFH can be achieved through current polling behavior and on the Web client engine  recovery mechanisms. From within the mail office platform components, until a message has been successfully delivered to a Web client engine , that message is not recorded in the partition database . During the next polling interval, the system can again \u201cdiscover\u201d the message and attempt to notify the Web client engine . For new mail events, if an event is lost, the system can pick up that message upon receiving the next event or during the next polling interval. For sources supporting notifications, this interval could be set at six hours, as one non-limiting example. For messages sent from the Web client engine , and for messages that have been accepted by the Web client engine, recovery can be handled by different Web client engine components.","The Web client engine  may advantageously be horizontally and vertically scalable. Multiple supervisors  can be registered\/configured with direct access proxies  to provide the distribution of the notification load and the availability of engine service. Multiple workers  and port agents  can run on the same machine or across multiple machines to distribute load and achieve redundancy. As the number of users grows, new components can be added to the system to achieve high horizontal scalability.","It is possible for a new component to be added\/removed to\/from the system automatically without down time. Traffic can automatically be delegated to a new component and diverted away from failed components. Each component within the mobile office platform  can be deployed multiple times to achieve horizontal scalability. To achieve vertical scalability, each mobile office platform  component can be a multi-threaded process with a configurable number of threads to scale under heavy load. Pools of connections can be used to reduce the overhead of maintaining too many open connections.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"]},"Provisioning (PRV)  provides a centralized database  or store to access user and device Identifier (ID) profile information. During login, the WAP and HTML Proxies ,  retrieve the ID profile, which provides user and device information. Proxies update PRV  for certain user configuration actions, such as a changed PIN. The web client database  (WC DB) contains account information for web client users. It is queried during login to determine if an unknown user is a web client user and whether they can be migrated. The WAP Proxy  provides a Wireless Markup Language (WML) based user interface for configuration of source mailboxes in the Mobile Office Platform (MOP). The HTML Proxy  provides an HTML based user interface for configuration of source mailboxes in MOP. The Soap Servlet  (SOAP Daemon) provides an interface into a database store. The Agg Engine  acts as a protocol translator that connects to a source mailbox to validate configuration parameters. The Mobile Office Platform Database (MOP DB)  is a primary user data store for the MOP. The Web Admin provides the MOP with notifications of account state changes. Provisioning  also provides notification of account state changes, such as inactive and active. Provisioning (PRV) can be used to notify and migrate a user from a Web Client (WC) service to an Internet Service (IS), having more advance features that are accessible from a web browser with a user email account, allowing a user to add and edit email accounts.","The Web Client Aggregation Programming Interface (WC AggAPI)  includes a database  and provides integrated source data for WC accounts. It is queried to retrieve integrated source configuration data to be migrated to a new Internet Service (IS) account for the user. The WC DB  provides web client account information. It is queried to retrieve web client account configuration data to be migrated to a Internet Service account for the user. The system can make use of existing products such as the Provisioning  and WebAdmin . These products have scaling characteristics. In this described embodiment, functionality has moved from Aggcron to the BDA proxy. The system provides a direct connection to a partition database within the BDA proxy. Access to the database can be from a configurable connection pool that will grow and shrink as necessary, depending on the needs of the system. The pool can recover from network errors and database connectivity issues.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["24","150","152","150","152","150","25","24","150","24"]},"It should be understood that the database  and configuration module  can be the same functional components shown in  of the mobile office platform , and operative with the web client engine  such as portions of the database , DA proxy , and other functional components. Also, those functional components as described relative to  could be added functional components similar to those shown in , depending on the type of system or design used by one skilled in the art.","It should be understood that the configuration module  can change color, font size, font typeface, graphics, text, icons, resolution or ringing sounds. Also, the configuration module  can configure an email in-box based on the email service provider and establish an email in-box for each email service provider that a user uses, such that the display characteristics are different at each in-box for each email service provider. Ringing sounds could change when an email is received in one provider email in-box, and charge again when it is received in another provider email in-box. Also, each in-box could be segregated for each email service provider from a general mailbox. Each wireless carrier, email service provider and device type could have different display or ringing indicators. The general email in-box could have all messages and the other specific mailboxes could be limited to the messages from the specific email service provider.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["200","202"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["204","206","208","210","212","214","215"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["202","204","220","224","226","228","230","231","200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIGS. 8 and 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["250","252","254","256","220","222","257","258"]},"A method can also be set forth such that the database stores the indicators as data for display characteristics, including image data and data for ringing sounds, and uploads the display characteristics to the mobile wireless communications device, for example, a specific icon, font or other graphic. A computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions is also set forth and the computer program can be contained on the mobile office platform components as described relative to  and .","It should be understood, when an external email account is provisioned on a mobile wireless communications device, it may require its own application entry point to appear on the ribbon and elsewhere on the handheld (e.g. read\/unread icons in the message list). The content for this entry-point can be provided by an HTTP service called the Entry-point Content Service (ECS)  as one of the functions of the components as described above. For example, it is illustrated at  in  and can be used to retrieve the branded\/theme content.","For example, the mobile wireless communications device could attempt to retrieve the content if the CMIME service book's application data contains a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that indicates where service-specific content can be downloaded. If the service book specifies a URL for the content, the content will download automatically. If the content cannot be downloaded or if no URL is specified, a default icon could be displayed. The default icon could be similar to but distinct from the icon that is used for the unified message list entry point. This icon may be themed. The URL could be placed in the CMIME service book when a user integrates a new source mailbox account. The URL would allow the device client to access the ECS  with the information necessary to be served the correct content (i.e. icon image map, sound data, etc.).","To determine the values for the CMIME servicebook properties that a web client engine sends to the handheld, it could query the MOP DAProxy with a DAV PROPFIND command. For example, the servicebook portion of the XML data is presented below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"<D:response>"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<D:propstat>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<D:status>HTTP\/1.1 200 OK<\/D:status>"]},{"entry":[{},"<D:href><xsl:value-of select=\u201c\/pd:proxydata\/pd:servletinfo\/pd:requesturi\u201d\/><\/D:href>"]},{"entry":[{},"<D:prop>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<s:from>[email address<\/s:from>"]},{"entry":[{},"<s:reply>[email address]<\/s:reply>"]},{"entry":[{},"<s:signature>[signature]<\/s:signature>"]},{"entry":[{},"<s:friendly>[friendlyname]<\/s:friendly>"]},{"entry":[{},"<s:autobcc>[autobcc]<\/s:autobcc>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:otafminit>[otafm-init]<\/sb:otafminit>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:otafmenabled>[otafm-enabled]<\/sb:otafmenabled>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:otafmdelete>[otafm-delmsgs]<\/sb:otafmdelete>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:otafmmove>[otafm-mvmsgs]<\/sb:otafmmove>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:otafmmsgstatus>[otafm-statmsgs]<\/sb:otafmmsgstatus>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:servicestatus>[svc-status]<\/sb:servicestatus>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:servicecid>[svc-cid]<\/sb:servicecid>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:encryptionmode>[encryption-mode]<\/sb:encryptionmode>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:compressionmode>[compression-mode]<\/sb:compressionmode>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:enablecontentserviceicon>[true|false]<sb:enablecontentserviceicon>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:contentserviceiconversion>1<\/sb:contentserviceiconversion>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:contentserviceurl>[contentService]<\/sb:contentserviceurl>"]},{"entry":[{},"<sb:servicename>[description]<\/sb:servicename>"]},{"entry":[{},"<s:srcwelcomemessage>[welcome message text]<\/s:srcwelcomemessage>"]},{"entry":[{},"<s:srcwelcomemessagesubject>[welcome message subject]<\/s:srcwelcomemessagesubject>"]},{"entry":[{},"<s:srcwelcomemessagereplyto>[welcome message replyto]<\/s:srcwelcomemessagereplyto>"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/D:prop>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"294pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"<\/D:propstat>"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"308pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<\/D:response>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The following fields are more relevant to the content service functionality:\n\n","The content returned from the ECS  can contain image data, e.g., icon image data, data for ringing sounds and similar functions.","The image data contains entry-point images used by handheld device. These include images for focused and unfocused ribbon icons as well as read and unread message icons. The images can be supplied in one large Portable Network Graphics (PNG) image map.  is an example of an image map illustrated at . The image map  includes a normal icon  of \u201cn\u201d pixels, a focused icon , a read icon  and unread icon  indicating read and unread matters, although the read and unread icons would not always be used in certain applications and are typically not mandatory.","There are some HTTP communication specifications. The content service can follow the HTTP 1.1 RFC (Request for Comment) accepting requests and generating responses as one non-limiting example. For example, if the client (handheld device) requires the connection closed, it would need to be specified in the request. Furthermore, HTTP 1.1 states that data may be \u201cchunked\u201d\u2014although this is unlikely to occur in the content service response. Nevertheless, the handheld device client is required to handle \u201cchunked\u201d data. An example of request and responses is shown below as non-limiting examples.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0100"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"GET TEAMON_URL HTTP\/1.1"]},{"entry":[{},"Host: TEAMON_SERVER"]},{"entry":[{},"profile: DEVICE_XML_DOC"]},{"entry":[{},"If-Modified-Since: If-Modified-Since"]},{"entry":[{},"Accept: ACCEPTABLE_CONTENT"]},{"entry":[{},"User-Agent: USER_AGENT"]},{"entry":[{},"HTTP\/1.1 200 OK"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Type: CONTENT_TYPE"]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: CONTENT_LENGTH"]},{"entry":[{},"Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 16:44:34 GMT"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Rim-Icon-Width: ICON_WIDTH"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Rim-Icon-Height: ICON_HEIGHT"]},{"entry":[{},"X-Rim-Icon-Indices: ICON_INDICES"]},{"entry":[{},"Connection: close"]},{"entry":[{},"PAYLOAD_DATA . . ."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Parameter","Description","Required?"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["TEAMON_URL","HTTP request URL; see below for more information","Yes"]},{"entry":["TEAMON_SERVER","HTTP server host and port; e.g.","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201ctrunk.seattle.rim.net:8083\u201d",{}]},{"entry":["DEVICE_XML_DOC","Provides information about the handheld","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"device. The \u201cprofile\u201d header is a WAP",{}]},{"entry":[{},"standard.",{}]},{"entry":["If-Modified-Since","If the requested image has not been","No"]},{"entry":[{},"modified since the time specified in",{}]},{"entry":[{},"this field, a 304 (not modified)",{}]},{"entry":[{},"response will be returned without any",{}]},{"entry":[{},"message-body",{}]},{"entry":["ACCEPTABLE_CONTENT","List of MIME content types supported by","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"the device",{}]},{"entry":["USER_AGENT","Handheld device's user agent","Yes"]},{"entry":["HTTP_RESPONSE_CODE","Any valid response code from","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/www.w3.org\/Protocols\/rfc2616\/rfc2",{}]},{"entry":[{},"616-sec10.html#sec10.3 e.g. \u201c200 OK\u201d or",{}]},{"entry":[{},"\u201c404 Not Found\u201d; note that a 3xx",{}]},{"entry":[{},"redirection code may be returned hence",{}]},{"entry":[{},"the requestor should be able to handle",{}]},{"entry":[{},"that. See section below.",{}]},{"entry":["CONTENT_TYPE","Image's MIME content type; e.g.","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cimage\/png\u201d; see",{}]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/www.iana.org\/assignments\/media-",{}]},{"entry":[{},"types for more information.",{}]},{"entry":["CONTENT_LENGTH","Integer length of content (probably","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"binary) data",{}]},{"entry":["ICON_WIDTH","Actual icon image size width, in pixels.","Yes, if"]},{"entry":["ICON_HEIGHT","Actual icon image size height, in","payload"]},{"entry":[{},"pixels.","is image"]},{"entry":[{},{},"data"]},{"entry":["ICON_INDICES","Comma-separated list of integer indices","Yes, if"]},{"entry":[{},"into the PNG image map; see below for","payload"]},{"entry":[{},"more information","is image"]},{"entry":[{},{},"data"]},{"entry":["PAYLOAD_DATA","Content (probably binary) data","Yes"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"These are some HTTP response codes as non-limiting examples. Since the content service follows the HTTP 1.1 RFC, it may respond with any of the HTTP response codes defined in http:\/\/www.w3.org\/Protocols\/rfc2616\/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10 e.g. 200, 302, 404, 500, and similar codes.","Generally, the service will respond with \u201c2000K\u201d and serve the requested content. However, it may sometimes respond with a 3xx redirection code, usually one of the following:\n\n","The service may also respond with an error, usually one of the following:\n\n","There are some parameter details. For example, TEAMON_URL is a URL that points to an entry-point content service. It has the following format:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0112"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"329pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"\/html?c=400&a=1&item=ITEM&theme=THEME&locale=LOCALE&icon_width=ICON_WIDTH&icon_height="},{"entry":"ICON_HEIGHT"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Query parameter","Description","Required?"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ITEM","Specifies the item to be fetched;","No"]},{"entry":[{},"currently the only legal values",{}]},{"entry":[{},"are \u201cicon\u201d. If this query",{}]},{"entry":[{},"parameter is omitted then it is",{}]},{"entry":[{},"assumed to be \u201cicon\u201d.",{}]},{"entry":["THEME","Name of the brand\/theme; usually","No"]},{"entry":[{},"the carrier name e.g. \u201ctmobile\u201d or",{}]},{"entry":[{},"\u201crogers\u201d",{}]},{"entry":["ICON_WIDTH","Desired icon width, in pixels.","Yes, if"]},{"entry":["ICON_HEIGHT","Desired icon height, in pixels.","ITEM = icon"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"A parameter for ICON-INDICES is a comma-separated list of integers that contains indices into the PNG image map. Each index is zero based. A missing integer signifies a missing icon image. The list can have the following format:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0114"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Index","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["A","Index for the normal ribbon icon"]},{"entry":["B","Index for the focused ribbon icon"]},{"entry":["C","Index for the read message icon*"]},{"entry":["D","Index for the unread message*"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"For example, \u201c0,,1,\u201d indicates that the normal icon is in the first position, and the read message icon is in the second, and there are no focused or unread icons.","The following is an example of the URL stored in the CMIME service book:\n\n","The following is an example of what the URL might look like after other query parameters are appended. This is an example of the actual URL request made to the service:\n\n","The following is an example of the HTTP request\/response, including headers, traffic for retrieving icon image map from the service:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0121"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"GET \/html?c=400&a=1&item=icon&theme=std&icon_width=8&icon_height=8 HTTP\/1.1"},{"entry":"Connection: close"},{"entry":"profile: http:\/\/www.blackberry.net\/go\/mobile\/profiles\/uaprof\/7290\/4.0.0.rdf"},{"entry":"Accept: application\/vnd.rim.html, image\/jpg, image\/png, image\/vnd.rim.png,"},{"entry":"image\/x-png"},{"entry":"Accept-Language: en"},{"entry":"User-Agent: BlackBerry7290\/4.0.0"},{"entry":"Via: MDS_4.0.0.48"},{"entry":"Host: bist.teamon.com"},{"entry":"HTTP\/1.1 200 OK"},{"entry":"Expires: Thu, 01 Jun 2005 11:00:00 GMT"},{"entry":"Content-Type: image\/png"},{"entry":"Content-Length: 1147"},{"entry":"Date: Thu, 14 Apr 2005 15:47:35 GMT"},{"entry":"Server: Apache-Coyote\/1.1"},{"entry":"X-Rim-Icon-Width: 8"},{"entry":"X-Rim-Icon-Height: 8"},{"entry":"Connection: close"},{"entry":"\u2030PNG . . ."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"There are typical valid string values for a \u201ctheme\u201d. The icon size could be specified in pixels in the request via the width and height parameters. Any non-zero values should be valid. The icon dimensions can vary according to the currently loaded theme. The icons could be horizontally arranged (side-by-side) in the image map, and a consistent size could be assumed for all icons.","An example of a handheld mobile wireless communications device  that may be used is further described in the example below with reference to . The device  illustratively includes a housing , a keypad  and an output device . The output device shown is a display , which is preferably a full graphic LCD. Other types of output devices may alternatively be utilized. A processing device  is contained within the housing  and is coupled between the keypad  and the display . The processing device  controls the operation of the display , as well as the overall operation of the mobile device , in response to actuation of keys on the keypad  by the user.","The housing  may be elongated vertically, or may take on other sizes and shapes (including clamshell housing structures). The keypad may include a mode selection key, or other hardware or software for switching between text entry and telephony entry.","In addition to the processing device , other parts of the mobile device  are shown schematically in . These include a communications subsystem ; a short-range communications subsystem ; the keypad  and the display , along with other input\/output devices , ,  and ; as well as memory devices ,  and various other device subsystems . The mobile device  is preferably a two-way RF communications device having voice and data communications capabilities. In addition, the mobile device  preferably has the capability to communicate with other computer systems via the Internet.","Operating system software executed by the processing device  is preferably stored in a persistent store, such as the flash memory , but may be stored in other types of memory devices, such as a read only memory (ROM) or similar storage element. In addition, system software, specific device applications, or parts thereof, may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store, such as the random access memory (RAM) . Communications signals received by the mobile device may also be stored in the RAM .","The processing device , in addition to its operating system functions, enables execution of software applications A-N on the device . A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations, such as data and voice communications A and B, may be installed on the device  during manufacture. In addition, a personal information manager (PIM) application may be installed during manufacture. The PIM is preferably capable of organizing and managing data items, such as e-mail, calendar events, voice mails, appointments, and task items. The PIM application is also preferably capable of sending and receiving data items via a wireless network . Preferably, the PIM data items are seamlessly integrated, synchronized and updated via the wireless network  with the device user's corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system.","Communication functions, including data and voice communications, are performed through the communications subsystem , and possibly through the short-range communications subsystem. The communications subsystem  includes a receiver , a transmitter , and one or more antennas  and . In addition, the communications subsystem  also includes a processing module, such as a digital signal processor (DSP) , and local oscillators (LOs) . The specific design and implementation of the communications subsystem  is dependent upon the communications network in which the mobile device  is intended to operate. For example, a mobile device  may include a communications subsystem  designed to operate with the Mobitex\u2122, Data TAC\u2122 or General Packet Radio Service (CPRS) mobile data communications networks, and also designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communications networks, such as AMPS, TDMA, CDMA, PCS, GSM, etc. Other types of data and voice networks, both separate and integrated, may also be utilized with the mobile device .","Network access requirements vary depending upon the type of communication system. For example, in the Mobitex and DataTAC networks, mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique personal identification number or PIN associated with each device. In GPRS networks, however, network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a device. A GPRS device therefore requires a subscriber identity module, commonly referred to as a SIM card, in order to operate on a GPRS network.","When required network registration or activation procedures have been completed, the mobile device  may send and receive communications signals over the communication network . Signals received from the communications network  by the antenna  are routed to the receiver , which provides for signal amplification, frequency down conversion, filtering, channel selection, etc., and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog-to-digital conversion of the received signal allows the DSP  to perform more complex communications functions, such as demodulation and decoding. In a similar manner, signals to be transmitted to the network  are processed (e.g. modulated and encoded) by the DSP  and are then provided to the transmitter  for digital to analog conversion, frequency up conversion, filtering, amplification and transmission to the communication network  (or networks) via the antenna .","In addition to processing communications signals, the DSP  provides for control of the receiver  and the transmitter . For example, gains applied to communications signals in the receiver  and transmitter  may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .","In a data communications mode, a received signal, such as a text message or web page download, is processed by the communications subsystem  and is input to the processing device . The received signal is then further processed by the processing device  for an output to the display , or alternatively to some other auxiliary I\/O device . A device user may also compose data items, such as e-mail messages, using the keypad  and\/or some other auxiliary I\/O device , such as a touchpad, a rocker switch, a thumb-wheel, or some other type of input device. The composed data items may then be transmitted over the communications network  via the communications subsystem .","In a voice communications mode, overall operation of the device is substantially similar to the data communications mode, except that received signals are output to a speaker , and signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I\/O subsystems, such as a voice message recording subsystem, may also be implemented on the device . In addition, the display  may also be utilized in voice communications mode, for example to display the identity of a calling party, the duration of a voice call, or other voice call related information.","The short-range communications subsystem enables communication between the mobile device  and other proximate systems or devices, which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example, the short-range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components, or a Bluetooth\u2122 communications module to provide for communication with similarly-enabled systems and devices.","Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed, and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects, features and advantages of different embodiments will become apparent from the detailed description which follows, when considered in light of the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
