---
title: Shared heartbeat service for managed devices
abstract: Systems, methods, and apparatuses for facilitating communication between remote services and applications installed on a device are described. In accordance with embodiments, each of a plurality of remote services generates an application-specific message intended for processing by a corresponding application installed on a device and transmits the application-specific message to a device management system (DMS) server, where it is queued. A DMS client installed on the device sends heartbeat messages to the DMS server indicating that the device is available to receive messages. In response to receiving the heartbeat messages, the DMS server transmits the application-specific messages to the DMS client. The DMS client then publishes each application-specific message to the particular application that the application-specific message was intended for.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756311&OS=08756311&RS=08756311
owner: OpenPeak Inc.
number: 08756311
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110526
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","A. Introduction","B. Example System that Utilizes a Shared Heartbeat Service for Managed Devices","C. Example Shared Heartbeat Methods","D. Inter-Application Communication","E. Example Intermediary DMS Client Device","F. Example Computer System Implementation","G. Conclusion"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/349,718, filed May 28, 2010 and entitled \u201cDevice Management Services,\u201d the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for facilitating communication between automated entities, such as between remote services and applications associated therewith that are installed on devices.","2. Background","Numerous software applications have been developed for use on networked devices. Many of these applications rely on communication with a remote service, such as a Web service, to support at least some of the application functionalities or features. For example, a remote service may communicate with an application to notify the application or a user thereof that an event that has occurred, to deliver content to the user of the application, to update the application, or the like.","Facilitating such communication is difficult when the application is installed on a device that is deployed in a different network or subnet. It is often not possible to directly address devices in other networks across the Internet because the remote network is often protected by constraints like Firewalls and Network Address Translation (NAT). Thus, a remote service residing on a publicly accessible server may not be able to initiate communication with the device or application. To deal with this issue, some applications have been developed that perform periodic polling when the device upon which they are installed is active, thereby indicating availability for communication with a remote service. Such periodic polling may be referred to as providing a \u201cheartbeat\u201d and the individual polling messages may be referred to as \u201cheartbeat messages.\u201d","Providing a heartbeat for an application consumes processing resources of the device upon which the application is installed, processing resources of the network nodes used to relay and\/or process the heartbeat messages, and bandwidth on the network links over which the heartbeat messages are relayed. As more and more applications that provide a heartbeat are installed on a device, the consumption of those resources will increase. This can lead to reduced performance by the device as well as reduced performance by the network to which the device is connected.","Furthermore, some devices may not be capable of communicating via the Internet at all. Consequently, such devices cannot support applications that rely on communication with a remote service to support at least some application functionality or features.","Systems, methods, and apparatuses are described herein for facilitating communication between remote services and applications installed on a device. In accordance with certain embodiments, each of a plurality of remote services generates an application-specific message intended for processing by a corresponding application installed on a device and transmits the application-specific message to a device management system (DMS) server, where it is queued. A DMS client installed on the device sends heartbeat messages to the DMS server indicating that the device is available to receive messages. In response to receiving the heartbeat messages, the DMS server transmits the application-specific messages to the DMS client. The DMS client then publishes each application-specific message to the particular application that the application-specific message was intended for.","By utilizing only a single, shared heartbeat to facilitate communication between multiple remote services and multiple corresponding applications installed on a device as described above, embodiments described herein can provide reduced resource consumption and improved performance as compared to an implementation in which each application installed on the device provides its own heartbeat.","In particular, a method for facilitating communication between remote services and applications installed on a device is described herein. In accordance with the method, heartbeat messages sent from a DMS client executing on the device are received by a DMS server, the heartbeat messages indicating that the DMS client is available to receive messages. In response to receiving the heartbeat messages, the DMS server transmits a plurality of application-specific messages to the DMS client, each application-specific message being generated by a corresponding remote service for processing by a corresponding application installed on the device. The method may further include receiving the application-specific messages from the corresponding remote services at the DMS server via a message publication application programming interface (API) and storing the application-specific messages in a queue at the DMS server prior to transmission to the DMS client.","A further method for facilitating communication between remote services and applications installed on a device is described herein. In accordance with the further method, heartbeat messages are sent from a DMS client executing on the device to a DMS server, the heartbeat messages indicating that the DMS client is available to receive messages. The DMS client then receives a plurality of application-specific messages that were transmitted by the DMS server in response to receiving the heartbeat messages, each application-specific message being generated by a corresponding remote service for processing by a corresponding application installed on the device. The method may further include publishing the application-specific messages by the DMS client to corresponding applications installed on the device via a message subscriber API.","A DMS server is also described herein. The DMS server includes a message publisher interface and DMS server logic. The message publisher interface receives a plurality of application-specific messages, each of the application-specific messages being generated by a corresponding remote service for processing by a corresponding application installed on a device. The DMS server logic receives heartbeat messages sent from a DMS client executing on the device and transmits the plurality of application-specific messages to the DMS client in response to the receipt of the heartbeat messages. The DMS server may further include a queue and the DMS server logic may store the plurality of application-specific messages in the queue prior to transmission to the DMS client.","A device is also described herein. The device includes a DMS client and a message subscriber interface. The DMS client sends heartbeat messages to a DMS server, the heartbeat messages indicating that the DMS client is available to receive messages. The DMS client also receives a plurality of application-specific messages that were transmitted by the DMS server in response to receiving the heartbeat messages, each application-specific message being generated by a corresponding remote service for processing by a corresponding application installed on the device. The message subscriber interface is used by the DMS client to publish the application-specific messages to the corresponding applications installed on the device. The DMS client may also register the corresponding applications as subscribers to which application-specific messages may be published in response to receiving subscription requests from the corresponding applications via the message subscriber interface.","Systems, methods and apparatuses are also described herein for enabling devices that are incapable of communicating via the Internet to run applications that rely on communication with a remote service to support certain application functionalities or features. In accordance with certain embodiments, a DMS client device acts as an intermediary between applications installed on a device that is incapable of communicating via the Internet and one or more remote services. In particular, the DMS client device includes a DMS client that sends heartbeat messages to a DMS server, the heartbeat messages indicating that the DMS client is available to receive messages. The DMS client also receives at least one application-specific message that was transmitted by the DMS server in response to receiving the heartbeat messages, the at least one application-specific message being generated by a corresponding remote service for processing by a corresponding application installed on a device that is connected to the DMS client device (e.g., a device that is incapable of communicating via the Internet). The DMS client device further includes a device messaging adapter that transmits the at least one application-specific message from the DMS client device to the device connected thereto.","Further features and advantages of the invention, as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention, are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) based on the teachings contained herein.","The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings, in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings, like reference numbers generally indicate identical, functionally similar, and\/or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit(s) in the corresponding reference number.","The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that illustrate exemplary embodiments of the present invention. However, the scope of the present invention is not limited to these embodiments, but is instead defined by the appended claims. Thus, embodiments beyond those shown in the accompanying drawings, such as modified versions of the illustrated embodiments, may nevertheless be encompassed by the present invention.","References in the specification to \u201cone embodiment,\u201d \u201can embodiment,\u201d \u201can example embodiment,\u201d or the like, indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature, structure, or characteristic, but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature, structure, or characteristic. Moreover, such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, when a particular feature, structure, or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment, it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to implement such feature, structure, or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","104","104","102","102","104","104","104","104","102","104","104"],"sub":["1","n","1","n","1","n","1","n"]},"As further shown in , each of devices -is also communicatively connected to a plurality of remote services . Each remote service  comprises an automated system that operates to provide one or more services to or perform one or more operations on behalf of remotely-executing applications. A remote service  may comprise, for example, a Web service or any other type of service that is invoked via machine-to-machine interaction such as a remote procedure call (RPC) or interaction supported by CORBA (Common Object Request Broker Architecture). In system , each of devices -is capable of executing at least one application that relies on communication with a corresponding one of remote services  to support at least some application functionalities or features. For example, an application executing on any of devices -may include a functionality or feature that is supported by the receipt of one or more messages from one of remote services .","Remote services  are also communicatively connected to device management service  and are capable of sending messages thereto. Communication among devices -, device management service , and remote services  may be carried out over a network or combination of networks. Such network(s) may include, for example, the Internet. However, this example is not intended to be limiting, and communication among devices -, device management service , and remote services  may be carried out over any type of network or combination of networks including one or more wide area networks (WANs), local area networks (LANs), private networks, public networks, packet networks, circuit-switched networks, and wired or wireless networks.","Depending upon the implementation, each of deployed devices -may comprise, for example and without limitation, a personal computer, a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a telephone, a personal digital assistant, a personal media player, or the like. Each device -may also comprise a device that is embedded in another device. Furthermore, each device -may comprise a device that operates to provide connectivity between other devices, such as a router, switch, or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","100","200","204","104","104","202","102","206","106"],"sub":["1","n"]},"As shown in , DMS server  includes DMS server logic  while device  includes DMS client logic . DMS server logic  is configured to execute remote management functions with respect to device  by interacting with DMS client logic  via a transport channel . As noted above, the performance of such remote management functions may include, for example and without limitation, communicating updated firmware, software and\/or device configuration information from DMS server logic  to DMS client logic .","Device  may be deployed in a different network or subnet than DMS server . Consequently, DMS server  may not be able to directly address device  because the network in which device  is deployed may be protected by constraints like Firewalls and Network Address Translation (NAT). To deal at least in part with this issue, DMS server logic  and DMS client logic  jointly implement a heartbeat service. In accordance with such a heartbeat service, when device  is available for communication, DMS client logic  periodically sends polling messages, or \u201cheartbeat messages,\u201d to DMS server logic  via transport channel  to notify DMS server logic  of such availability. In response to receiving such heartbeat messages from DMS client logic , DMS server logic  may then send one or more device-management related messages to DMS client logic  via transport channel , wherein each message may include one or more device-management related commands to be carried out by DMS client logic . Such commands may include, for example and without limitation, commands to install or update software on device , commands to install or update firmware on device , and\/or commands to alter a configuration of device .","As shown in , device  further includes a plurality of software applications installed for execution thereon. In particular, a first application (also denoted \u201cApp A\u201d), a second application (also denoted \u201cApp B\u201d), and a third application (also denoted \u201cApp C\u201d) are installed on device  and may be executed thereon. Each of these applications may rely on communication with a remote service, such as remote service , to support at least some application functionalities or features. However, since device  may be deployed in a different network or subnet that is protected by a Firewall or NAT as noted above, device  may not be directly addressable by such remote services.","One approach to dealing with this issue would be to configure each of applications -to send its own heartbeat messages to a corresponding remote service when device  is available for communication.  depicts a sequence diagram  that shows how such an approach might be implemented. As shown in , DMS client logic  within device  sends a heartbeat message  to DMS server logic  within DMS server  to indicate that device  is available for communication. In response to receiving heartbeat message , DMS server logic  sends one or more device-management related messages  to DMS client logic . Following this sequence of events, first application (also denoted \u201cApplication A\u201d) sends its own heartbeat message  to a first remote service (also denoted \u201cService A\u201d) and, in response to receiving heartbeat message , first remote service sends one or more application-specific messages  to first application . In a like manner, second application (also denoted \u201cApplication B\u201d) sends its own heartbeat message  to a second remote service (also denoted \u201cService B\u201d) and receives one or more application-specific messages  from second remote service in response while third application (also denoted \u201cApplication C\u201d) sends its own heartbeat message  to a third remote service (also denoted \u201cService C\u201d) and receives one or more application-specific messages  from third remote service in response.","Providing a separate heartbeat for DMS client logic  and each of applications -in the manner shown in  consumes processing resources of device , processing resources of the network nodes used to relay and\/or process the heartbeat messages, and bandwidth on the network links over which the heartbeat messages are relayed. As more and more applications that provide a heartbeat are installed on device , the consumption of those resources will increase. This can lead to reduced performance by device  as well as reduced performance by the network to which device  is connected.","In contrast to the approach depicted in , an embodiment of the present invention enables each of applications -to \u201cshare\u201d the heartbeat provided by DMS client logic  to facilitate communication between those applications and corresponding remote services -. To achieve this, DMS server  includes a message publisher interface  that enables remote services -to publish messages in an asynchronous manner for queuing and subsequent delivery to corresponding applications -installed on device . Additionally, device  includes a message subscriber interface  that enables applications -to subscribe to receive messages published by remote services -and queued by DMS server . When DMS server logic  on DMS server  receives a heartbeat message from DMS client logic , DMS server logic  can transmit any pending application-specific messages from remote services -to DMS client logic . DMS client logic  can then deliver each of the application-specific messages to the appropriate application -via message subscriber interface .","By allowing each application -to thus leverage the heartbeat provided by DMS client logic  to receive messages from corresponding remote services -, an embodiment of the present invention can achieve reduced resource consumption and improved performance as compared to an implementation in which each application provides its own heartbeat, such as the one described above in reference to sequence diagram  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","204","234","238","232","306"],"sub":["1 ","1"]},"As shown in , DMS client logic  within device  sends a heartbeat message  to DMS server logic  within DMS server  to indicate that device  is available for communication. In response to receiving heartbeat message , DMS server logic  sends one or more device-management related messages  to DMS client logic . It is to be assumed that no application-specific messages are pending for delivery to DMS client logic  at this time.","Following this sequence of events, first remote service asynchronously publishes an application-specific message  for delivery to at least first application via message publisher interface  of DMS server . This application-specific message is received and queued for delivery at DMS server . After the application-specific message has been thus received and queued for delivery at DMS server , DMS client logic  sends another heartbeat message  to DMS server logic . In response to receiving heartbeat message , DMS server logic  sends one or more device-management related messages and the pending application-specific message, collectively represented as messages , to DMS client logic . DMS client logic  then publishes the application-specific message  to first application via message subscriber interface .","First application may then process the application-specific message. Depending on the content of the application-specific message, this may cause first application to perform a particular action or perhaps take no action at all. In the example, shown in , in response to the processing of the application-specific message first application , first application \u201cphones home\u201d to first remote service as represented by message . This may entail, for example, establishing a link to a predefined Uniform Resource Location (URL) or to a URL specified in the application-specific message. After such link has been established, further communication between first application and first remote service may occur, as represented by messages ,  and . As noted above, however, this is only an example, and first application may be caused to perform other action in response to processing the application-specific message.","Additional details regarding the example implementation depicted in  will now be provided. As previously described, DMS server  includes message publisher interface  and DMS server logic . In at least one embodiment, message publisher interface  comprises a well-defined remote services application programming interface (API) that may be invoked using any of a variety of remote services protocols. As further shown in , DMS server  includes a first publish adapter  that enables remote services to interact with message publisher interface  using the well-known REST (Representational State Transfer) protocol and a second publish adapter  that enables remote services to interact with message publisher interface  using the well-known SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) protocol. Still other protocols may be used to interact with message publisher interface  and DMS server  may include additional adapters to accommodate such protocols.","DMS server logic  is shown as including a heartbeat module . Heartbeat module  is intended to represent that portion of DMS server logic  that performs functions necessary to implement a shared heartbeat service for managed devices as described herein. As noted above, DMS server logic  may also perform any number of remote management functions with respect to device  and other devices whether or not such remote management functions are explicitly described herein.","As was also previously described, device  includes applications -, message subscriber interface  and DMS client logic . In at least one embodiment, message subscriber interface  comprises a well-defined API that may be called by any of applications -. A description of such an API may be included in publicly-accessible software developers kit (SDK) so that application developers can develop applications that can utilize the shared heartbeat service.","As further shown in , DMS server  includes a server transport adapter  and client transport adapter . These transport adapters enable DMS server  and device , respectively, to engage in communication over transport channel  established there between. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art(s), the manner in which server transport adapter  and client transport adapter  are implemented will depend upon the particular communication protocol used to communicate over transport channel . A variety of different communication protocols may be used depending upon the deployment requirements. By way of example only and without limitation, application layer protocols such as HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol)\/HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure), XMPP (Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol) and SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) may be used for communication. Also, transport layer protocols such as TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) or UDP (User Datagram Protocol) may be used for communication. In accordance with at least one embodiment, the particular type of transport adapter to be used to for communication between device  and DMS server  may be changed at runtime to dynamically accommodate a variety of different communication protocols.","A variety of security models may also be used to provide secure communications over transport channel . Such security models can provide features relating to, for example, privacy, authentication and validation. With respect to privacy, mechanisms such as HTTPS and public\/private key encryption may be used to ensure that a message can only be read by an intended recipient. With respect to authentication, mechanisms such as self-signed certificates and certificates issued from a trusted authority may be used to provide verification of the identity of a sender of a message and\/or a recipient thereof. With respect to message validation, mechanisms such as public\/private key hashes and MD5 checksums may be used to verify that a message has not been altered in transit. Still other security models and mechanisms may be used.","As discussed above, DMS client logic  sends heartbeat messages to DMS server logic . These messages may introduce a network and processing load at DMS server . In accordance with at least one embodiment, DMS server logic  is configured to send a message to DMS client logic  to readjust a heartbeat interval in order to manage a load on DMS server . For example by causing DMS client logic  to switch from a 15 second heartbeat interval to a 30 second heartbeat interval, an embodiment can effectively halve the workload on DMS sever . In one embodiment, the heartbeat interval is managed by sending DMS client logic  a message informing DMS client logic  of the new heartbeat interval. In accordance with such an embodiment, DMS server  can dynamically control its load. For example, when a network traffic or processing load (e.g., queue of requests) of DMS server  exceeds a certain threshold, DMS server logic  can send a message to one or more managed devices to readjust the heartbeat interval. Also, when a managed device is connected via specific networks, such as cellular networks, it may have a policy that lowers its heartbeat interval to minimize the use of data on that network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-4"],"b":["500","500","500"]},"As shown in , the method of flowchart  begins at step  in which a plurality of application-specific messages are received from a corresponding plurality of remote services at a DMS server. Each application-specific message is generated by a corresponding one of the remote services for processing by a corresponding application installed on a device. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS server , which receives application-specific messages from corresponding remote services -that are intended for processing by corresponding applications -installed on device . Such application-specific messages may be received via message publisher interface , which may be invoked by the various remote services using any of a variety of remote service protocols.","At step , the DMS server stores the application-specific messages received during step  in a queue located at the DMS server pending delivery to one or more devices. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS server logic  of DMS server . In accordance with certain implementations, DMS server logic  also monitors a time-to-live value associated with each of one or more application-specific messages stored in the queue and removes an application-specific message from the queue if the time-to-live value associated therewith has expired. This functionality enables remote services to send messages to the DMS server that will only be delivered to applications installed on a device if the device receives the message within a certain timeframe.","At step , the DMS server receives heartbeat messages from a DMS client executing on the device. The heartbeat messages indicate that the DMS client is available to receive messages. This step may be performed, for example, by heartbeat module  of DMS server , which receives heartbeat messages generated by DMS client logic  of device . As previously described, DMS server  utilizes server transport adapter  to receive such heartbeat messages from transport channel .","At step , the DMS server transmits the queued application-specific messages that are intended for processing by applications installed on the device to the DMS client in response to receiving the heartbeat messages during step . This step may be performed, for example, by heartbeat module  of DMS server . For example, heartbeat module  may utilize server transport adapter  to transmit such application-specific messages to DMS client logic  via transport channel . In accordance with one embodiment, this step entails transmitting, in association with each application-specific message, an identification of an application-specific channel to which the application-specific message is to be published upon receipt by the DMS client.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 1-4"],"b":["600","600","600"]},"As shown in , the method of flowchart  begins at step  in which a DMS client executing on a device registers a plurality of applications installed on the device as subscribers to which application-specific messages may be published. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS client logic  which registers applications -as applications to which application-specific messages may be published responsive to receiving subscription requests from each of those applications via message subscriber interface .","At step , the DMS client sends heartbeat messages to a DMS server. The heartbeat messages indicate that the DMS client is available to receive messages. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS client logic  of device . As previously described, DMS client logic  utilizes client transport adapter  to send such heartbeat messages to DMS server  over transport channel .","At step , the DMS client receives a plurality of application-specific messages that were transmitted by the DMS server in response to receiving the heartbeat messages. Each application-specific message so received was generated by a corresponding remote service for processing by a corresponding application installed on the device. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS client logic  of device . As previously described, DMS client logic  utilizes client transport adapter  to receive such application-specific messages from transport channel .","At step , the DMS client publishes the application-specific messages received during step  to corresponding applications installed on the device for processing thereby. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS client logic  of device , which publishes each of the application-specific messages to a corresponding one of applications -via message subscriber interface  for processing thereby. In accordance with one embodiment, this step comprises publishing each of the application-specific messages to a corresponding application-specific channel, wherein each application-specific channel corresponds to a particular application that subscribed to receive messages during step .","After each application receives its corresponding application-specific message, it then processes it. Depending on the content of a given application-specific message, this may cause an application to perform a particular action or perhaps take no action at all. As noted above, one example action that may be taken is establishing a link to a predefined URL or to a URL specified in the application-specific message, although this is only one example and any of a wide variety of actions that may be taken.","The shared heartbeat architecture described above in reference to  may also be utilized to permit applications installed on the same device to communicate with each other. By way of example, a first application installed on device  may interact with message publisher interface  to subscribe to receive information about events occurring with respect to a second application installed on device . When such an event occurs, the first application can be notified by message publisher interface . The foregoing approach to inter-application communication is advantageous in that it provides a standard interface by which diverse applications can share information with each other.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","238","702","234","238","238","238","234","238","238","283","704","234","704","234","706","238","238","238","238"],"sub":["1 ","3 ","3 ","3 ","1 ","3","3 ","1 ","1 ","1 ","3"]},"Some devices may not support communication over certain networks. For example, some devices may not be capable of communicating over the Internet. Consequently, such devices may not be able to support applications that have been designed to communicate with a remote service.  is a block diagram of a system  in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention that addresses this issue. In particular, system  enables devices that are incapable of communicating via the Internet to run applications that rely on communication with a remote service to support certain application functionalities or features.","As shown in , system  includes a home area network  that is communicatively connected to a DMS server  and a plurality of remote services  via the Internet . As further shown in , home area network  comprises a plurality of devices , ,  and  that are communicatively connected to a DMS client device  via a variety of communication mediums. In particular, device  is communicatively connected to DMS client device  via a Bluetooth\u00ae communication medium , device  is communicatively connected to DMS client device  via a WiFi (i.e., an IEEE 802.11) communication medium , device  is communicatively connected to DMS client device  via an infrared (IR) communication medium  and device  is communicatively connected to DMS client device via a ZigBee communication medium .","DMS client device  acts as an intermediary between applications installed on each of devices , ,  and  and one or more remote services. In particular, DMS client device  includes a DMS client  that sends heartbeat messages to DMS server , the heartbeat messages indicating that DMS client  is available to receive messages. DMS client  also receives application-specific messages that are transmitted from DMS server  in response to receiving the heartbeat messages, wherein the application-specific messages are generated by corresponding ones of remote services  for processing by a corresponding application installed on one of devices , ,  and . Various techniques were described above by which remote services  can generate such application-specific messages and transmit them to DMS server  for queuing pending transmission to DMS client device .","DMS client device  further includes a number of device messaging adapters  that are used to transmit each of the application-specific messages received from DMS server  to the appropriate device , ,  or  upon which is installed the application for which the application-specific message is intended. Different adapters may be used to communicate with different devices and\/or over different communication mediums.","It is possible that certain ones of devices , ,  or  is not capable of communicating over the Internet. However, by acting as an intermediary between applications installed on each of devices , ,  and  and one or more remote services, DMS client device  enables such devices to nevertheless run applications that rely on communication with a remote service to support certain application functionalities or features.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["900","900","900"]},"As shown in , the method of flowchart  begins at step  in which a DMS client executing on a DMS client device registers applications installed on a device connected to the DMS client device as subscribers to which application-specific messages may be published. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS client  which may register applications installed on any of devices , ,  and  as subscribers to which application-specific messages may be published.","At step , the DMS client sends heartbeat messages to a DMS server. The heartbeat messages indicate that the DMS client is available to receive messages. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS client  which may send heartbeat messages to DMS server  via Internet , the heartbeat messages indicating that DMS client  is available to receive messages.","At step , the DMS client receives at least one application-specific message that was transmitted by the DMS server in response to receiving the heartbeat messages. The at least one application-specific message is generated by a corresponding remote service for processing by a corresponding application installed on a device connected to the DMS client device. This step may be performed, for example, by DMS client  which may receive at least one application-specific message that was transmitted by DMS server  in response to receiving the heartbeat messages, wherein the at least one-application specific message is generated by a corresponding one of remote services  for processing by a corresponding application installed on one of devices , ,  or .","At step , the at least one application-specific message is transmitted from the DMS client device to the device connected thereto for processing by a corresponding application. This step may be performed, for example, by one of device messaging adapters , which transmits the at least one application-specific message from DMS client device  to one of devices , ,  or  for processing by a corresponding application installed thereon.","In accordance with the foregoing, DMS client device  can act as a proxy for other devices, allowing such other devices to leverage a shared heartbeat service provided by DMS client device . This device proxy feature potentially allows for a robust n-tier deployment strategy wherein a single device may serve as a proxy to any number of subordinate devices which in turn may proxy for other devices forming a hierarchical relationship independent of the availability or visibility of the public Internet or dependency on any specific network protocol.","This shared heartbeat proxy technology can enable devices connected to a LAN which does not connect to a WAN to maintain communication paths with a DMS server. Further, a proxy device may be dual-homed to, for instance, address a requirement to couple a utility's private wireless LAN to a LAN connected to a WAN.","Similarly, the shared heartbeat proxy technology provides the unique capability of bridging between communication technologies by enabling a proxy device (e.g., DMS client device ) to have ingress and egress communication paths of varying protocols such as Bluetooth\u00ae, WiFi, IR, Z-Wave or ZigBee network infrastructures.","Each of the devices and servers shown in ,  and , as well as any of the sub-systems or components contained therein may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. For example, each of the devices and servers shown in ,  and , as well as any of the sub-systems or components contained therein may be implemented as computer program code configured to be executed in one or more processors. Alternatively, each of the devices and servers shown in ,  and , as well as any of the sub-systems or components contained therein as hardware logic\/electrical circuitry.","The embodiments described herein, including systems, methods\/processes, and\/or apparatuses, may be implemented using well known servers\/computers, such as a computer  shown in . For example, each of the devices and servers shown in ,  and , as well as any of the sub-systems or components contained therein may be implemented using one or more computers .","Computer  can be any commercially available and well known computer capable of performing the functions described herein, such as computers available from International Business Machines, Apple, Sun, HP, Dell, Cray, etc. Computer  may be any type of computer, including a desktop computer, a server, etc.","Computer  includes one or more processors (also called central processing units, or CPUs), such as a processor . Processor  is connected to a communication infrastructure , such as a communication bus. In some embodiments, processor  can simultaneously operate multiple computing threads.","Computer  also includes a primary or main memory , such as random access memory (RAM). Main memory  has stored therein control logic A (computer software), and data.","Computer  also includes one or more secondary storage devices . Secondary storage devices  include, for example, a hard disk drive  and\/or a removable storage device or drive , as well as other types of storage devices, such as memory cards and memory sticks. For instance, computer  may include an industry standard interface, such a universal serial bus (USB) interface for interfacing with devices such as a memory stick. Removable storage drive  represents a floppy disk drive, a magnetic tape drive, a compact disk drive, an optical storage device, tape backup, etc.","Removable storage drive  interacts with a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit  includes a computer useable or readable storage medium  having stored therein computer software B (control logic) and\/or data. Removable storage unit  represents a floppy disk, magnetic tape, compact disk, DVD, optical storage disk, or any other computer data storage device. Removable storage drive  reads from and\/or writes to removable storage unit  in a well known manner.","Computer  also includes input\/output\/display devices , such as monitors, keyboards, pointing devices, etc.","Computer  further includes a communication or network interface . Communication interface  enables computer  to communicate with remote devices. For example, communication interface  allows computer  to communicate over communication networks or mediums  (representing a form of a computer useable or readable medium), such as LANs, WANs, the Internet, etc. Communication interface  may interface with remote sites or networks via wired or wireless connections.","Control logic C may be transmitted to and from computer  via the communication medium .","Any apparatus or manufacture comprising a computer useable or readable medium having control logic (software) stored therein is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes, but is not limited to, computer , main memory , secondary storage devices , and removable storage unit . Such computer program products, having control logic stored therein that, when executed by one or more data processing devices, cause such data processing devices to operate as described herein, represent embodiments of the invention.","Devices in which embodiments may be implemented may include storage, such as storage drives, memory devices, and further types of computer-readable media. Examples of such computer-readable storage media include a hard disk, a removable magnetic disk, a removable optical disk, flash memory cards, digital video disks, random access memories (RAMs), read only memories (ROM), and the like. As used herein, the terms \u201ccomputer program medium\u201d and \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d are used to generally refer to the hard disk associated with a hard disk drive, a removable magnetic disk, a removable optical disk (e.g., CDROMs, DVDs, etc.), zip disks, tapes, magnetic storage devices, MEMS (micro-electromechanical systems) storage, nanotechnology-based storage devices, as well as other media such as flash memory cards, digital video discs, RAM devices, ROM devices, and the like. Such computer-readable storage media may store program modules that include computer program logic for implementing the features of each of the devices and servers shown in ,  and , as well as any of the sub-systems or components contained therein, any of the methods or steps of the flowcharts of ,  and , and\/or further embodiments of the present invention described herein. Embodiments of the invention are directed to computer program products comprising such logic (e.g., in the form of program code or software) stored on any computer useable medium. Such program code, when executed in one or more processors, causes a device to operate as described herein.","The invention can work with software, hardware, and\/or operating system implementations other than those described herein. Any software, hardware, and operating system implementations suitable for performing the functions described herein can be used.","While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not limitation. It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art(s) that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly, the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS\/FIGURES","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated herein and form part of the specification, illustrate the present invention and, together with the description, further serve to explain the principles of the invention and to enable a person skilled in the relevant art(s) to make and use the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
