---
title: Adapter ring for pre-filter in chemical, biological and radiological environments
abstract: An axi-symmetric adapter is provided for attaching to a pre-filter bag as a pre-filter assembly for use with chemical, biological, and radiological filtration systems. The bag has an annular retention ring, with the assembly being insertable into a cavity of an M98 Filter Bank or other Navy-designated Collective Protection System filter housing. The adapter includes tang, groove, flange mezzanine rings. The tang ring has an exterior bevel edge and terminates a reverse side of the adapter. The groove ring possesses inner and outer cylindrical walls that define a circular channel and terminate an obverse side of adapter. The flange ring extends radially inward from the inner cylindrical wall for engaging the retention ring. The mezzanine ring connects the flange and groove rings together.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08876168&OS=08876168&RS=08876168
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08876168
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110825
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy, and thus, the invention herein may be manufactured, used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119, the benefit of priority from provisional application 61\/403,522, with a filing date of Sep. 16, 2010, is claimed for this non-provisional application.","The invention relates generally to an interface adapter for a filtration system. In particular, the invention relates to a unitary adapter ring that enables a pre-filtration bag to be removably connected to either of two configurations of filter housings for shipboard protective collection systems.","Chemical, biological, and radiological (CBR) weapons pose a threat to U.S. Navy ships from various quarters. The Shipboard Collective Protection System (CPS) provides defense against this threat with a limited maintenance burden on the crew as compared to alternative systems.","Supply air is filtered against particulates, e.g., chemical aerosols and biological and radiological particles, using high-efficiency particulate arresting (HEPA) filters installed in a Collective Protection (ColPro) room. Naval shipboard systems employ a Filter Bank, each housing a series of three annular 200 cubic-feet-per-minute (CFM) M98 gas\/particulate filter sets. ColPro has been applied to all DDG-51 (U.S.S. Arleigh Burke), LHA-1 (U.S.S. Tarawa), LHD1 (U.S.S. Wasp) and LPD-17 (U.S.S. San Antonio) class ships, and selected TAOE-6 (U.S.N.S. Supply) and LSD-41 (U.S.S. Whidbey Island) class ships.","To extend the replacement interval of the M98 filter sets, the Filter Bank includes cylindrical pre-filters to reduce the dust load of the inlet air prior to HEPA filtration. When indicated by a CBR filter differential pressure gauge, the pre-filter bags are removed, and replacements installed. These pre-filters are snapped in and out of position by hand and do not require tools for removal or installation.","Conventional arrangements to install pre-filter bags to a Filter Bank yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular, various exemplary embodiments provide an axi-symmetric adapter is provided for attaching to a pre-filter bag as a pre-filter assembly. The bag has an annular retention ring, with the assembly being insertable into a cavity of an M98 Filter Bank. In various exemplary embodiments, the adapter includes a flange ring, a groove ring, and a mezzanine ring.","In various embodiments, the flange ring has an exterior bevel edge. The flange ring terminates a reverse side of the adapter. In various embodiments, the groove ring possesses inner and outer cylindrical walls that define a circular channel. The groove ring terminates an obverse side of the adapter. The mezzanine ring connects the flange and groove rings together. In various embodiments, the channel can form a snug fit with a center support tube of the M98 Filter Bank. In alternative or additional embodiments, the bevel edge can form a snug fit with a center cavity of the M98 Filter Bank.","In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized, and logical, mechanical, and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.","Initially, pre-filter bags required the installation of a securing bar retained by the HEPA cover nuts to lock the pre-filters in place. Loosening and tightening these nuts deleteriously alters pressure on the HEPA gaskets thereby invalidating system leak tests. The pre-filter bag employs a flexible retention ring integrated in the construction of the filter to secure the pre-filter and a fabric loop for easy removal.","For removal from the Filter Bank, the retention ring can be manually collapsed, and a loop cord pulled for retrieval of the pre-filter bag. After inserting the bag pre-filter into the Filter Bank, the retention ring can be released to expand radially into position at the Filter Bank's inlet. The retention ring eliminates need for the retention bar and enables crewmembers to remove and replace pre-filters by hand without disturbing the HEPA cover nuts, thereby obviating system recertification. This represents a significant operational cost savings to the fleet.","Two configurations of HEPA cover have seen service. The earlier housing employs a center support tube that extends axially from the inlet. The later housing lacks the support tube feature. Various exemplary embodiments provide an adapter for the bag pre-filter, irrespective of whether the center support tube is available for securing the retention ring.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 1A and 1B","FIG. 1A","FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["100","110","115","120","115","125","130","135","110","120","710","130","135"]},"An exemplary pre-filter axi-symmetric adapter  is shown upstream of the pre-filter bag . Orientation of the adapter  exhibits a first configuration, whereas  shows orientation of the adapter \u2032 in a second configuration. Installation of the adapter  into the pre-filter bag  provides a first pre-filter assembly  for insertion into the Filter Bank .","An earlier version view  in  shows a Filter Bank  having the housing cylinder  and a second cover plate  having a center support tube . The pre-filter bag  is insertable into the Filter Bank  through the cover plate . The exemplary adapter \u2032 is shown upstream of the pre-filter bag . Installation of the adapter \u2032 into the pre-filter bag  provides a second pre-filter assembly  for insertion into the Filter Bank .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","120","210","220","140","150","150","230","140","240","250","260","270","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","180","310","320","140","190","190","330","140","240","250","260","200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","140","410","140","420","240","430","250","440","420","260","240","450","410"]},"The groove  comprises an inner wall , from which the flange  extends radially inward, and an outer wall . A beveled mezzanine  straddles between the sides ,  and connects the walls ,  with the flange . These cross-section structures constitute axi-symmetric rings that form the adapter  as an integrated mechanical interface for the pre-filter bag .","As shown in detail views  and , the inner wall  engages the retention ring to respectively yield either the first pre-filter assembly  or the second pre-filter assembly . The flange  snaps into an annular groove on the retention ring to ensure a snug fit. When the obverse side  faces towards the bag's inlet  in the second orientation of the adapter \u2032, the groove  engages the support tube  in the earlier configuration for the second Filter Bank . Otherwise when the reverse side  faces the inlet  in the first orientation of the adapter  for the first Filter Bank , the tang  inserts into the Filter Bank's central cavity. In this manner, the groove  is disposed to avoid interference with associated components in the later configuration for the first Filter Bank assembly .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B","b":["500","140","510","520","140","140","430","420","135","140","530","140","410","540","460"]},"The view  includes Detail D shown in cross-section magnification  that identifies exemplary dimensions of the walls , , the mezzanine , and the tang , including the adapter's overall exemplary axial length of the adapter  as 2.375 inches. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the provided dimensions are provided for illustration only in relation to the M98 system, and are not limiting with respect to other such designs. The tang  exhibits a slight bevel on the external edge, and provides a mechanical interface for the inlet to the first cover plate . The tang  may employ a cylindrical internal edge. The groove  provides a mechanical interface for the support tube  to the second cover plate .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","610","620","120","610","630","640"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","130","710","135","130","710","260","130","140","120","180"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","110","810","120","130","115"]},"Each set contains an inner annular HEPA particulate filter  and an outer annular gas adsorber , through which the air successively passes radially. For the M98 set, the particulate filter  and the gas adsorber  have axial lengths of \u02dc10.4 inches, and respective outer diameters of \u00d818.6 inches and \u00d821.4 inches. The filtered exhaust air exits the cylinder  through slots and travels axially along an annulus between the outer periphery of the cylinder  and an external shell (not shown) to exit through an angularly distributed array of orifices  into the ship's interior spaces at 600 CFM.","In the exemplary embodiments shown, the adapter  preferably represents a unitary item. Such a design does not preclude such a device as a multi-piece assembly of interlocking or otherwise attached components. The adapter  can be composed of a variety of rigid or semi-rigid materials. Although this item can be machined from metal stock, cast from molten form, or produced by similar methods, thermoplastic constitutes the preferred material for the adapter  for reasons of manufacturing cost, material density and resilience to accidental damage.","More preferably, an exemplary thermoplastic, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) can be used to fabricate the adapter , such as by injection molding or other related processes. ABS thermoplastic has the chemical formula (CH).(CH).(CHN)and constitutes a copolymer made and acrylonitrile in the presence of polybutadiene. The monomers in the ABS polymer include acrylonitrile, 1,3-butadiene and styrene, as shown in the accompanying diagram.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"63.58mm","wi":"23.11mm","file":"US08876168-20141104-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"Benefits offered by the pre-filter bag design include reductions in the direct cost associated with the pre-filter and the storage burden on ship. First, the new design is manufactured using less expensive materials and less labor-intensive manufacturing techniques than the cylindrical pre-filter previously used in the earlier Filter Bank . This results in a per-housing cost reduction from $90 per filter housing to $25 per filter housing. With the longer service life of the pre-filters, this translates to a cost savings of approximately 78% annually over the cylindrical pre-filters. The adapter  eliminates the prior necessity of different pre-filter sizes to enable a single common pre-filter to be employed in any Navy-designed filtration system used for CBR defense. Employing a single, common pre-filter bag  that uses this adapter  provides:","1) increase in filtration performance by eliminating dust bypass gaps, thereby extending the service life of the main and more expensive CPS HEPA filters ,","2) decrease in life cycle costs by eliminating pre-filter procurement confusion and procurement errors, reducing maintenance labor and cost, reducing the logistics burden, and saving money by reducing the manufacturing costs of the pre-filters used in these systems, and","3) elimination of three different pre-filter sizes (and associated costs) from the Navy stock system, replacing them with a single size pre-filter.","There are currently three different sizes of pre-filters used on Navy ships or any of the many buildings and shelters in the United States and around the world that use the Navy-designed CPS to protect people and equipment from CBR contamination. Each of the three pre-filter sizes corresponds to a different filter housing design or use. There is one pre-filter size for older filter housings that use a center support tube , another pre-filter size for newer housings that lacks the center support tube , and another pre-filter size for new construction applications where the main filters have not yet been installed.","Each of these three pre-filter sizes is of similar construction and appears somewhat similar in size. However, each size varies slightly in length and diameter, and the pre-filter sizes are not interchangeable. If the wrong pre-filter size is procured and installed, the result will be a poorly fitting pre-filter with dust bypass gaps, rendering it ineffective at serving its main purpose, which is to protect and extend the service life of the expensive CBR filters  and  in the CPS. Observations of CPS filtration systems on operational Navy ships have shown an abundance of wrong-size pre-filters and\/or poorly fitting pre-filters, and have resulted in ineffective dust load protection and premature and expensive replacement of the expensive CBR filters.","For installation, the following options are available with the pre-filter adapter .","1. Filter Bank  with a center support tube : Place the grooved obverse side  of the adapter  directly over the tube  and gently push until the adapter  is snug on the tube . Form a U-shape with the outer snap band (retention ring ) by pushing in its periphery to decrease its diameter. Insert the pre-filter bag  into the housing  until the center of the snap band aligns with the raised bead (flange ) on the adapter . Release the U-shape so that the center of the snap band \u201csnaps\u201d into place on the raised bead.","2. Filter Bank  without a center tube support : Place the beveled reverse side  of the adapter  directly into the center of the housing  and gently push until the adapter  is snug on the housing . Form a U-shape with the outer snap band (retention ring ). Insert the pre-filter bag  into the housing  until the center of the snap band aligns with the raised. Release the U-shape so that the center of the snap band \u201csnaps\u201d into place.","3. New construction filter housing (with no CBR filters installed): Same procedure as above, depending on being with or without the center support tube.","Using this exemplary adapter  reduces pre-filter designs to a single size, thereby eliminating pre-filter size confusion, procurement errors, and subsequent premature and expensive CBR filter replacement. This reduces pre-filter manufacturing costs by eliminating at least two alternate sizes and in preference for only a single common pre-filter size and manufacturing method.","One useful feature of the adapter  is the incorporation of an inner raised bead that allows the use of filter industry standard snap bands. Previous conventional Navy pre-filters used a custom-sized steel band that was relatively difficult to manufacture and had to have a very tight tolerance. If these steel bands had an error of even 0.11 inch off in diameter, which has often been the case, the result is a pre-filter that does not fit correctly and exhibits major dust bypass gaps to the detriment of the CBR filters. Unlike the steel band, the plastic snap band (retention ring ) enables minor variations in tolerance and provides an appropriate snug fit with no bypass gaps. The plastic snap band material is also inexpensive compared to the custom-manufactured steel band, resulting in decreased pre-filter procurement cost.","Another advantage over conventional pre-filters is the ability to easily clean the pre-filters when exposed to dust storms that plague the Persian Gulf arena. When the pre-filter bag  becomes loaded with excessive dust, the adapter  can be easily removed with the pre-filter  still attached, taken to an outside area, turned so that the adapter  is at the lower end, and bounced off the deck several times to easily shake loose and eliminate the excessive dust. The refreshed pre-filter  with attached adapter  can then be returned to be readily and snugly inserted into the housing ,  for re-use.","While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein, many modifications, substitutions, changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and various other features and aspects of various exemplary embodiments will be readily understood with reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like or similar numbers are used throughout, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
