---
title: Systems and methods for secure portable patient monitoring
abstract: A patient monitoring system that enables a healthcare provide to request access to patient data via interaction directly with a local patient monitor and subsequently provide patient data to the healthcare provider's portable communication device regardless of device location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113776&OS=09113776&RS=09113776
owner: ANAESTHESIA ASSOCIATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, P.C.
number: 09113776
owner_city: Westwood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110928
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61\/387,271 filed on Sep. 28, 2010, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.","Patient monitoring systems are widely used in the medical field to enable healthcare providers to monitor the condition of patients. Patient monitoring systems enable healthcare providers to remotely monitor patients from a central monitoring station, e.g., a nurses' station, that is in communication with multiple local patient monitors. Local patient monitors, e.g., oximeters, ECGs, or pulse rate monitors, are typically connected to a central station via a wired or wireless network in a healthcare facility. The central station may store patient data or interface with medical record databases as part of an electronic medical record (EMR) system.","Wired communications between a local patient monitor and central station is typically via a local area network using an Ethernet protocol. Wireless communications between a local patient monitor and central station is typically via a wireless local area network using a wireless Ethernet protocol based on the 802.11 family of standards. Some local monitors utilize a personal area network such as Bluetooth to support wireless communications with one or more patient sensors or to communication with a central station via an access point.","Communications between a local patient monitor and a central station or between a local patient monitor and a sensor may be protected by encryption of the data being communicated. Some patient monitoring systems support remote monitoring of patient physiological parameters via pagers, personal digital assistants (pda), and other portable computing devices that communicate with a central station or local patient monitor via the Internet or a wireless access point on the premises of a healthcare facility.","Unfortunately, existing patient monitoring systems, including local patient monitors, do not provide an efficient way of allowing a healthcare provider, e.g, physician, to securely access monitored patient physiological parameters using a portable communications device. Accordingly, there is a need to enhance the ability of healthcare providers to more efficiently and securely obtain access to local patient physiological data using a portable computing or communications device.","The application, in various embodiments, addresses the deficiencies of current patient monitoring and management systems by providing systems and methods that enable a healthcare provider to efficiently establish an authenticated and secure communications link between a patient monitoring system and a portable communications device.","The systems and methods described herein refer to a portable (e.g., handheld) communications device such as, for example, a smart phone or personal digital assistant (pda) that a healthcare provider can use to access patient physiological data gathered by one or more patient monitors. In a hospital setting, multiple patients occupy multiple separate rooms dispersed throughout a hospital floor, or across multiple hospital floors, or across multiple hospital buildings. For example, patients may be dispersed across a suite of operating rooms or across different anesthetizing locations. A central monitoring station or nurses' station is usually connected via a data network to patient bedside monitors in the multiple patient rooms or locations so that patient physiological data associated with each of the multiple patients can be monitored conveniently at the central station. For example, when patients are dispersed across various anesthetizing locations, a clinician may wish to monitor a patient in the Interventional Radiology department while also monitoring patients in operating suits and other rooms.","Healthcare personal often make rounds where they visit the bedside of each of the patients to observe each patient's physical conditions and observe the bedside monitors for each patient. The present application enables a healthcare provide, in close proximity to a local and\/or bedside patient monitor, to use a portable communications device to request and obtain access to patient data being gathered by a particular patient monitoring device or group of patient monitoring device.","Unlike existing patient monitoring systems, the systems and methods describes herein enable a healthcare provider to advantageously and conveniently obtain access to patient data using an local wireless or wired connection directly with a particular patient monitor. By requiring the healthcare provider, e.g., a physician, and\/or their portable communications device to be physically present and in close proximity to a patient monitor or monitoring device, the system ensures that only a healthcare provider with physical access to a particular patient can have electronic access to their physiological data. Thus, a healthcare provider may be required to go to the patient and their bedside monitor to obtain access to the patient's data using a portable communications device. The local wireless connection and\/or channel used to request access to patient data will preferably be a different (out-of-band) than the wireless connection and\/or channel used by the patient monitoring device to send patient data to a remote display station such as a central monitoring station. The out-of-band wireless channel may include a personal area network (PAN) protocol such as, without limitation, Bluetooth or an 802.11-based wireless channel. The wireless channel used by the patient monitoring device to send data to the central station may include a Bluetooth, 802.11 or other wireless standards.","When requesting access to patient data via a local patient monitor, the portable communications device may provide an access code to the patient monitoring device. The access code may include a passcode, password, an encrypted value, and\/or a cryptographic response. The patient monitoring device may use the access code to determine whether the healthcare provider and\/or portable communications device should be allowed access to monitored patient data. The wireless channel and\/or any portion of communications between the system, local monitor, and\/or portable communications device may be encrypted to provide data privacy. The system may use secret keys and\/or ephemeral secret keys that can be changed based on certain conditions and\/or events.","Once a portable communications device and\/or healthcare provider is authorized by a monitor with access to patient data, the portable communications device may continuously receive real-time or near real-time patient data. The portable monitoring device may use a further interface and wireless channel to receive the patient data and then display the data via a user interface such as a graphical user interface. The wireless channel used by the portable communications device to receive patient data may include a wireless channel other than the wireless channel used to communicate with the local patient monitoring device. For example, if the portable communications device is a 3GSM capable smart phone, the device may communicate with its mobile 3GSM provider to obtain a steam of the patient data via a 3GSM wireless data channel. Communications with the local monitor to obtain patient data access, on the other hand, may be via a Bluetooth connection. Thus, once access to patient data is established, the healthcare provider is free to move to any location, even far away from the patient monitoring device, while still receiving the patient data using their portable communications device via the 3GSM connection.","While the applicant's teachings are described in conjunction with various embodiments, it is not intended that the applicant's teachings be limited to such embodiments. On the contrary, the applicant's teachings encompass various alternatives, modifications, and equivalents, as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","102","104","108","110","108","110","102","104","106","106","112","108","110","112","106","108","110","106","108","110"],"sub":"2 "},"The remote telemeters  and  may communicate bi-directionally with any number of radio transceivers , , , and , referred to as access points (AP). The APs may use one of various types of wireless protocols and standards such as time division multiple access (TDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), 802.11, Wifi, Bluetooth, cellular, GPRS, LTE, EVDO, WiMax, and the like. In one mode of operation, each AP can communicate with multiple remote telemeters at-a-time. The APs may be spaced apart from one another throughout the hospital or healthcare facility to provide a \u201ccell-like\u201d coverage area which consists of overlapping zones of coverage.","Different APs - of the system  may operate (i.e., transmit and receive data) on a different RF frequency channels (\u201cfrequencies\u201d). However, APs that are sufficiently spaced apart to avoid interference with one another may operate on like frequencies. Although the remote telemeters  and  and APs shown in  are of the type which communicate by radio frequency (RF), the system may also include \u201chardwired\u201d remote telemeters  and APs which communicate over hardwire connections.","With further reference to , the APs - are connected by conventional shielded twisted pair lines  to a router . The router  may alternatively or additionally function as a switch, relay, server, gateway, repeater, bridge, and\/or like network communications device. In one configuration, the router  can accommodate up to sixteen APs. In other configurations, the router  can accommodate greater than sixteen APs. In a typical hospital installation, one router  may service a single floor of a hospital. The router  may provide connectivity between the APs on a hospital local area network (LAN) . The LAN  may serve as a real-time data distribution system for distributing the physiologic data of the patients with a known latency. The LAN  may includes a 100 Mbit\/second backbone which is based on the 100BaseTx (Ethernet) protocol. (The term \u201cbackbone\u201d may refer generally to the transmission medium and the networking cards of the LAN.) Alternative LAN protocols which could be used include ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode) and FDDI (Fiber Distributed Data Interface) and others.","The LAN  may include one or more central stations  or charting servers for allowing hospital personnel to remotely view and otherwise monitor the real-time physiologic data of the patients of the system . Each monitoring station  is preferably in the form of a standard PC (personal computer) which runs conventional patient monitoring software. The LAN  may also include one or more gateway computers  for connecting the LAN  to other networks , such as the Internet, to permit the exchange of patient information with other medical facilities and patient sites.","As will be apparent, the architecture illustrated in  provides for a high degree of scalability. The system  can initially be installed with central station  serving as the sole monitoring station for a set of 16 (or fewer) APs, which may include both RF and hardwired connections. With the addition of a LAN , new APs and routers  can be added to increase the patient capacity and\/or coverage area of the system . The architecture allows new APs to be added to the system  without a corresponding degradation in performance caused by noise. Monitoring or central stations  can be added to the LAN  as needed to permit the remote viewing and monitoring of patient data from various locations within the hospital or healthcare facility.","The system  also includes portable communications devices  and . The portable communications devices  and  may include a pda, portable computer, cellular telephone, smart phone, wireless communications device, and the like. The devices  and  may utilize one or more communications protocols such as 802.11, WiMax, Wifi, GPRS, CDMA, LTE, pager protocols, Bluetooth, a PAN protocol, a wireless LAN protocol, a wide area network (WAN) protocol, or any suitable wireless protocol to enable communications with one or more monitors , , and ; APs  , , ; or with a data provider . The data provider  may include a public land mobile network (PLMN) or other wireless data provider. The AP  may include a cellular network base station and antenna to facilitate mobile network communications with the devices  and  via a wireless channel . The device  may communicate with the LAN  via a wireless channel  and AP .","The devices  and  may communicate with the patient monitors , , and  via channels , , and  respectively. Channels ,  and  may include wireless channels and\/or wired channels. Each patient monitor , , and  may include a transceiver , , and  to enable the exchange of data between the devices  and  and the monitors , , and . In some instances, the functions of, for example, transceivers  and  are combined into a single transceiver element. In some instances, the transceivers , , , , and  are integrated with the monitors , , and  respectively.","In operation, the telemeters , , and  send data packets to individual APs  and  using a wireless protocol, and to router  using a wired protocol. These packets include the patient data collected by the remote telemeters (or by patient monitors , , and  connected to the remote telemeters), along with the ID codes of the respective telemeters and\/or monitors. The APs  and , and NIC  forward these data packets to the corresponding router , which in-turn broadcast the patient data on the LAN  (in real time) for viewing and automated monitoring by the central station . The system may also support a patient location methods for monitoring the remote location of each patient and\/or device  and .","To support patient mobility, the APs  and  and remote telemeters  and  may implement a \u201cswitch-over\u201d protocol in which the telemeters  and  continuously attempt to establish connections with those APs that offer the best link performance. As part of this protocol, each remote telemeter continuously assesses the quality of the RF link to each AP that is within range. The telemeters  and  store this link assessment information, and periodically evaluate this information to determine whether a switch-over to a new AP is desirable. When a remote telemeter  determines that an AP is available (i.e., has an open wireless channel) which offers better link performance than a current AP (i.e., an AP to which the telemeter is currently connected), the remote telemeter attempts to connect to the new AP. (As described below, this involves sending a request message to the selected AP , and then waiting for confirmation message from the AP). If the connection is successfully established, the remote telemeter  drops its connection to the current AP . Thus, a remote telemeter  will normally connect to many different APs (including APs of different networks or routers) as the patient moves throughout the hospital or healthcare facility. Transitions between APs occur without interruption or loss of data, and may thus be seamless from the viewpoint of the monitoring clinician. Thus, even if a previously secured communication link is lost, then the handheld device  will be able to re-establish a secure connection automatically.","To provide protection against dropouts caused by multi-path interference (and other types of interference), each remote telemeter  may attempts to maintain a connection with two APs  and  at all times. (In other implementations, the remote telemeters  and  may connect to three or more APs , , and  to provide even greater protection against multi-path interference.) Whenever two AP connections are established, the remote telemeter  may transmit each of its data packets to both of the APs. These redundant transfers take place on different wireless channels. Thus, each wireless data channel or path benefits from the protection offered by space, time, code and\/or frequency diversity. Upon receiving the redundant packets, the router  to which the two APs are connected (assuming the APs are connected to the same router) may use error detection codes contained within the packets to discard bad packets, and to discard duplicate packets when both packets are successfully received.","In one implementation of the system , the remote telemeters  and  may only connect to the APs  and  of one router  at-a-time. In this implementation, each remote telemeter  and  attempts to stay connected to the APs of the current LAN , and switches over to a different router and\/or LAN only when deemed necessary. In another implementation, the APs of the system are maintained sufficiently synchronized with one another to allow each remote telemeter to connect to APs of two different routers or LANs. When this situation occurs, the task of discarding duplicate packets may automatically shift to the monitoring station .","In certain implementations, a healthcare provider, e.g., a physician, has a portable communications device  in their possession as they make rounds through a healthcare facility. The healthcare provider uses the device  to obtain access to certain patient physiological data by interfacing, for example, with a bedside patient monitor  via a wireless channel  and transceiver . The wireless channel  may be a separate, out-of-band, channel with respect to the wireless channel  used by the monitor  and telemeter  to transfer physiological data to the central station . Thus, the provider, via the device , can request access to the monitored physiological data using the out-of-band wireless channel . In certain embodiments, at least a portion of the out-of-band channel includes a physical wired connection between the device  and monitor . In such embodiments, the monitor  may be physically wired to a docking station and the device  is placed, temporarily, in the docking station. When docked, the device  may download and synchronize physiological data using an out-of-band channel.","The wireless channel  may use the same or different protocol as the protocol used via wireless channels  and . For example, the telemeter  may use 802.11 to communicate via channel  to AP , while the device  uses Bluetooth to communicate via channel  with monitor . In some configurations, the power and\/or range of the wireless channels , , and  may be limited to ensure that the devices  and  must be in relatively close proximity with the monitors ,  and  to enable communications. This ensures, for example, that the device , and hence its user, is physically present near the monitor  and\/or patient's bedside when requesting access to the patient's physiological data via the device . The device  may also be physically connected to the monitor temporarily to facilitate and access request.","Once an access request is made by the device  and accepted by the monitor and\/or system  (to be discussed in more detail below), the device  may receive physiological data originating from, for example, monitor  or central station  related to a patient being monitored by the monitor . The device  may receive the physiological data via the wireless channel . However, as the device  moves away from the monitor , the channel  may be lost. Thus, the device  may receive the patient physiological data via another wireless channel such as channel  and\/or . For example, if the device  has 802.11 and 3GSM data capabilities, the device  may initially receive the physiological data via an 802.11-based channel  and AP . If or when 802.11 APs are out of range, the device  may switch to a mobile network using 3GSM data to receive data via, for example, cellular AP  and data provider  that enable the device  to access the central station  and\/or monitor  via the network , gateway , and LAN .","Thus, once access for a healthcare provider device  or  is authorized and established locally with a patient monitor, the device  or  may be used to continuously monitor the patient data regardless of the subsequent location of the device  or  via other wireless data channels than the channel  or  uses to obtain authorization.","Each patient monitor , , and , central station , and\/or a charting server may include data used to allow or authorize devices  and  access to patient data associated with one or more of the patient monitors -. For example, a patient monitor  and\/or central station  may include a list or database of device  and  identifiers (IDs), healthcare provider\/device user IDs, monitor IDs, AP IDs, location data for APs, location data for devices  and\/or , user names, digital certificates, secret keys, access codes, and the like. Each monitor and\/or central station may maintain a list of groups of monitors where a set of monitors is assigned based on location (e.g., a floor), type of care (e.g., critical care unit), healthcare provider (e.g., patient of particular healthcare provider). Thus, when a device  is authorized access to a monitor , the central station  (charting server) and\/or monitor  may authorize the device to access all patient data associated with a group of monitors (where the monitor  is part of the group). Each device  may include a various software applications and\/or functions that enable to the device  to interface with the system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["134","128","200","202","204","206","202","200","204","200","208","204","204","202"]},"The mass storage  may include one or more magnetic disk or tape drives or optical disk drives or solid state memories or memory sticks, for storing data and instructions for use by the CPU . At least one component of the mass storage system , preferably in the form of a disk drive or tape drive, stores the database used for processing data and\/or patient physiological data of the system . The mass storage system  may also include one or more drives for various portable media, such as a floppy disk, a compact disc read only memory (CD-ROM), or an integrated circuit non-volatile memory adapter (i.e. PC-MCIA adapter) to input and output data and code to and from the computer system . The storage system  may store patient related physiological data for multiple patients over a period of time to enable the system  (or central station ) to analyze the patient data, generate metadata or trend data and charts, and\/or to present selected portions of data to users or distribute selected portions of data to devices  and .","The computer system  may also include one or more input\/output interfaces for communications, shown by way of example, as interface  for data communications via the network  (or network ). The data interface  may be a modem, an Ethernet card or any other suitable data communications device. To provide the functions of a computer  according to , the data interface  may provide a relatively high-speed link to a network  (or network  of ), such as an intranet, internet, or the Internet, either directly or through an another external interface . The communication link to the network  may be, for example, optical, wired, or wireless (e.g., via satellite or cellular network). Alternatively, the computer system  may include a mainframe or other type of host computer system capable of Web-based communications via the network . The computer system  may include software for operating an network application such as a web server and\/or web client.","The computer system  also includes suitable input\/output ports or use the interconnect bus  for interconnection with a local display  and keyboard  or the like serving as a local user interface for programming and\/or data retrieval purposes. The display  may include a touch screen capability to enable users to interface with the system  by touching portions of the surface of the display . The display  may enable a graphical display on one or more patient physiological parameters associated with one or more patients and\/or patient monitors. Server operations personnel may interact with the system  for controlling and\/or programming the system from remote terminal devices via the network .","The computer system  may run a variety of application programs and store associated data in a database of mass storage system . One or more such applications may enable the receipt and delivery of messages to enable operation as a server, for implementing server functions relating to patient management, distribution of patient physiological data, and\/or information of .","The components contained in the computer system  are those typically found in general purpose computer systems used as servers, workstations, personal computers, network terminals, and the like. In fact, these components are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art.","As discussed above, the general purpose computer system  may include one or more applications that provide patient management and information collection and distribution in accordance with features of the invention. The system  may include software and\/or hardware that implements a web server application. The web server application may include software such as HTML, XML, WML, SGML, PHP (Hypertext Preprocessor), CGI, and like languages.","The foregoing features may be realized as a software component operating in the system  where the system  is Unix workstation or other type of workstation. Other operation systems may be employed such as, without limitation, Windows, MAC OS, and LINUX. In some embodiments, the monitor, central station, or device software can optionally be implemented as a C language computer program, or a computer program written in any high level language including, without limitation, C++, Fortran, Java, or Visual BASIC. Certain script-based programs may be employed such as XML, WML, PHP, and so on. Additionally, general techniques for high level programming are known, and set forth in, for example, Stephen G. Kochan, Programming in C, Hayden Publishing (1983). The system  may use a DSP for which programming principles are well known in the art.","As stated previously, the mass storage  may include a database. The database may be any suitable database system, including the commercially available Microsoft Access database, and can be a local or distributed database system. The design and development of suitable database systems are described in McGovern et al., A Guide To Sybase and SQL Server, Addison-Wesley (1993). The database can be supported by any suitable persistent data memory, such as a hard disk drive, RAID system, tape drive system, floppy diskette, or any other suitable system. The system  may include a database that is integrated with the system , however, it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that in other implementations the database and mass storage  can be an external element.","In certain embodiments, the system  may include an Internet browser program and\/or be configured operate as a web server. In some embodiments, the client and\/or web server may be configured to recognize and interpret various network protocols that may be used by a client or server program. Commonly used protocols include Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Telnet, and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), for example. However, new protocols and revisions of existing protocols may be frequently introduced. Thus, in order to support a new or revised protocol, a new revision of the server and\/or client application may be continuously developed and released.","In one implementation, the system  includes a networked-based, e.g., Internet-based, application that may be configured and run on a device  and\/or any combination of the other components of the system . The system  (or central station  or monitor ) may include a web server running a Web 2.0 application or the like. The devices  and  may include web clients. Web applications running on the system  may use server-side dynamic content generation mechanisms such, without limitation, Java servlets, CGI, PHP, or ASP. In certain embodiments, mashed content may be generated by a web browser via, for example, client-side scripting including, without limitation, JavaScript and\/or applets.","In certain embodiments, the controller  may include applications that employ asynchronous JavaScript+XML (Ajax) and like technologies that use asynchronous loading and content presentation techniques. These techniques may include, without limitation, XHTML and CSS for style presentation, document object model (DOM) API exposed by a web browser, asynchronous data exchange of XML data, and web browser side scripting, e.g., JavaScript. Certain web-based applications and services may utilize web protocols including, without limitation, the services-orientated access protocol (SOAP) and representational state transfer (REST). REST may utilize HTTP with XML.","The devices  and , monitors -, and\/or central station  may also provide enhanced security and data encryption. Enhanced security may include access control, biometric authentication, cryptographic authentication, message integrity checking, encryption, digital rights management services, and\/or other like security services. The security may include protocols such as IPSEC and IKE. The encryption may include, without limitation, DES, AES, RSA, and any like public key or private key based schemes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIGS. 3-6","b":["134","136"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["134","102","134","102","102","134","134","134","134","102","128","134","102","128","128","134","128","102"]},"The monitor  may then prompt the device  with a request for the authorization code which may be displayed on a display of the device . The user may then enter the authorization code and send it to the monitor via the wireless channel  which is a different, and out-of-band, channel than the wireless channel  used to send data to the central station . The monitor  may then compare the authorization code from the device  with the code from the central station . If the codes match, the monitor authorizes the device  with access to patient monitored data. Alternatively, the monitor  may store the authorization codes and, therefore interaction with the central station  is not required. As another alternative, the authorization code from the device  may be sent to the central station  which performs the comparison of codes and authorization of the device . Once the device and\/or user is authorized access, an encrypted session and\/or channel may be established between the device  and monitor  (and\/or central station ) to protect data transmissions to and from the device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["134","102","134","128","102","134","102","134","134","102","134","102","134","102","128","102","134","102","128","134"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["134","102","134","128","102","134","102","128","134","102","134","134","102","134","102","134","102","128","102","128","134","142","148","134","134","102","128","102","134","102","128","134"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["134","102","134","102","128","134","102","128","134","134","102","102","102","134","102","134","102","102","134","134","102","102","128","102","134","102","128","134"]},"It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that certain aspects involved in the operation of the device , monitor , and\/or central station  may be embodied in a computer program product that includes a computer usable and\/or readable medium. For example, such a computer usable medium may consist of a read only memory device, such as a CD ROM disk or conventional ROM devices, or a random access memory, such as a hard drive device or a computer diskette, or flash memory device having a computer readable program code stored thereon.","Those skilled in the art will know or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the embodiments and practices described herein. Accordingly, it will be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the embodiments disclosed herein, but is to be understood from the following claims, which are to be interpreted as broadly as allowed under the law."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing and other objects and advantages of the invention will be appreciated more fully from the following further description thereof, with reference to the accompanying drawings. The skilled person in the art will understand that the drawings, described below, are for illustration purposes only. The drawings are not intended to limit the scope of the applicant's teaching in any way.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["134","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["134","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["134","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["134","102"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
