---
title: Efficient and cost-effective distributed call admission control
abstract: A distributed call control system is provided that can allot bandwidth amongst several call controllers. The distributed call control system includes one or more access elements that interface with a cloud that execute two or more instances of call processing servers that administer call control. The cloud members negotiate and determine bandwidth allocation amongst the members and the access elements. If an access element requires more bandwidth, the access element assesses its own needs and requests more bandwidth from the cloud. The negotiation and requests for bandwidth are accomplished with a set of dynamic and static bandwidth data that regiment the control of the bandwidth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08718261&OS=08718261&RS=08718261
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08718261
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110721
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/554,714, filed on Sep. 4, 2009 (published as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010\/0278327 on Nov. 4, 2010), which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/175,320 filed on May 4, 2009, both of these documents are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all that they teach and for all purposes.","Bandwidth management is an important feature in call processing and necessary for preventing network overload. However, many environments require that certain types of calls or uses of bandwidth be prioritized or otherwise treated differently than others. There might be a pool of available resources of which some users can use only a subset while others can use the entire pool. A distributed cluster may be used to manage bandwidth in which a single element using the fastest and most advanced computer hardware available is still not fast enough to meet demand.","However, there may be situations where entities outside the distributed cluster need to use the cloud's managed bandwidth. The need to interface with many different types of outside entities can cause performance problems for the distributed cluster. Thus, the distributed cloud may provide bandwidth but may suffer performance degradation due to the interaction with outside entities.","It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. Herein, a distributed call control system is provided that can allot bandwidth. The distributed call control system is as described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010\/0278327, which is incorporated by reference above. The distributed call control system may be represented by a cloud.","Starting with the cloud of bandwidth sharers, the network may add additional participants that are produced by different vendors and each serve a fraction of the traffic that cloud members may serve. It is impractical to ask each adopting vendor to join the cloud, and if these vendors did, cloud member requests for resources would become time-consuming. Thus, the system adopts a spider architecture, where each node (leg) makes requests of the central core, but the central core is not a single server, but the cloud. Thus, the network is configured as a cloud within a spider.","The legs of the spider configuration are connections to vendors, which may be called \u201caccess elements\u201d. Whenever an access element needs resources, the access element sends a message to the cloud. A member of the cloud processes the request for resources from the access element as if the access element was a member of the cloud. The processing of the request is as described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010\/0278327. The cloud member can issue a response to the access element indicating the fulfillment or rejection of the request.","The requests from the access elements may consist of several components\u2014the multiple bandwidth pools (as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61\/394,025), a minimum bandwidth need, and a maximum bandwidth need for each pool. The cloud member can return a response with either nothing or a value within the requested range. Thus, if the cloud member cannot meet the minimum bandwidth need, the cloud member will return a response with nothing available. The messaging can be completed with a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) PUBLISH\/200 exchange.","There are several advantages to the embodiments presented herein that add access elements to the cloud\/spider architecture. The access elements can execute a relatively simple Application Programming Interface (API) to communicate, with the cloud, for requesting resources. The API can be published for third-party vendors. The access element requests for resources do not result in requests to non-cloud members; the number of external requests can be limited to the number of cloud members (the access element requests to one cloud member and that cloud member's requests to other members of the cloud). This reduction in requests substantially improves worst-case response time. In short, by assigning different elements status as either a core cloud member or an access element, the embodiments balance performance tradeoffs and business needs in making the communication system work at previously unrealized scale.","The phrases \u201cat least one\u201d, \u201cone or more\u201d, and \u201cand\/or\u201d are open-ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example, each of the expressions \u201cat least one of A, B and C\u201d, \u201cat least one of A, B, or C\u201d, \u201cone or more of A, B, and C\u201d, \u201cone or more of A, B, or C\u201d and \u201cA, B, and\/or C\u201d means A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, or A, B and C together.","The term \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such, the terms \u201ca\u201d (or \u201can\u201d), \u201cone or more\u201d and \u201cat least one\u201d can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms \u201ccomprising\u201d, \u201cincluding\u201d, and \u201chaving\u201d can be used interchangeably.","The term \u201cautomatic\u201d and variations thereof, as used herein, refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However, a process or operation can be automatic, even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input, if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be \u201cmaterial\u201d.","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, NVRAM, or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, magneto-optical medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, a solid state medium like a memory card, any other memory chip or cartridge, or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer-readable media is configured as a database, it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database, such as relational, hierarchical, object-oriented, and\/or the like. Accordingly, the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art-recognized equivalents and successor media, in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.","The terms \u201cdetermine\u201d, \u201ccalculate\u201d and \u201ccompute,\u201d and variations thereof, as used herein, are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology, process, mathematical operation or technique.","The term \u201cmodule\u201d as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware, software, firmware, artificial intelligence, fuzzy logic, or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also, while the invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments, it should be appreciated that individual aspects of the invention can be separately claimed.","In the appended figures, similar components and\/or features may have the same reference label. Further, various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification, the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.","The ensuing description provides embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope, applicability, or configuration of the invention. Rather, the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.","An embodiment of a system  for administering phone calls is shown in . The several components of the system  may be hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. Descriptions of the computer system environment and the computer systems which may embody the several components of system  are described in conjunction with . As such, a functional description of the several components of system  shall follow.","In embodiments, the system  comprises a cloud  which may include two or more servers  operable to administer calls and in communication through a network within the cloud. Each server  may manage the phone calls for a branch (not shown) and or one or more access elements , , and\/or  through a network within the cloud . An access element , , and\/or  can be a separate device that communications with one or more communication devices, e.g. device   and\/or device  , which may be telephones, mobile devices, etc. For example, n access element , , and\/or  may be part of a call center or site of an enterprise network. Typically, the access elements , , and\/or  can be a collection of Internet Protocol (IP) addresses and\/or telephone numbers that may interface with devices that do not communicate using SIP. In other embodiments, the access element , , and\/or  is a communication device itself. The networks can be any trusted or untrusted network as discussed in conjunction with  that allow for the communication of data between the access element , , and\/or  and the cloud or between members of the cloud.","The system  manages phone calls or requests for bandwidth from one or more IP addresses at one or more access elements , , and\/or . As an example, a phone call may be requested from a access element  . The request may be sent to the server  over a network. Before allowing the call, the server  must determine if the cloud  has enough bandwidth. Generally, the cloud  is bandwidth limited. As such, the group of servers within the cloud  must share the bandwidth. Thus, the server A  must be able to determine if the phone call will have enough bandwidth in the system .","The cloud  can include two or more servers, e.g. server , that share the available bandwidth. To share the bandwidth, the cloud  can allot each server in the cloud  an amount of bandwidth. As each server within the cloud  administers or controls a call, a portion of the allotted bandwidth is employed. Thus, the server  may control what bandwidth is given to the access element  based on the bandwidth allotted to the server . If more bandwidth is required for the server  or the access element , the server  can request more bandwidth from the other members of the cloud .","An embodiment of an access element  is shown in . The access element  can be the same as or similar to access elements , , and\/or  (). In embodiments, the access element  is a computer system as described in conjunction with . The access element  can have one or more components, which may execute as computer modules. The access element  can include one or more of, but is not limited to, a call\/data processing server , an API , and\/or a bandwidth negotiation module .","The call processing server  administers or control calls for the access element . The call processing server  receives requests for phone calls from an IP address or other identifier of a device that communicates with the access element . The call processing server  may route the call as required to complete the call. However, in embodiments, the call processing server  determines if the call has adequate bandwidth. If bandwidth is required, the call processing server  requests bandwidth, through the API , from the cloud . In some embodiments, the call processing server  may also function as a group administrator as explained hereinafter.","The API  can communicate with the cloud . Thus, while the access element  can communicate with devices using a legacy protocol (e.g., H.3232), the API  allows the access element  to communicate with the cloud  using SIP. Generally, every access element  includes an API . The API  sends messages to request bandwidth from the cloud . An embodiment of a request messages is described in conjunction with . The API  may also receive the responses from the cloud . The responses can provide bandwidth information, such as the amount of bandwidth provided or whether bandwidth is provided. The response message information may be provided to the bandwidth negotiation module  or call\/data processing server  to deploy the provided resources. The call processing server  and API  allows each access element  to separately manage bandwidth requirements of connected devices without having to communicate continuously with the cloud .","The bandwidth negotiation module  can store and manage control information that allows the access element  to determine if enough bandwidth is available and whether to contact the cloud  for more bandwidth. Thus, as devices interface with the access element , the bandwidth negotiation module  determines the device requirements. If more bandwidth is needed, the bandwidth negotiation module  can signal the API to request bandwidth from the cloud . Further, the bandwidth negotiation module  allots and manages the bandwidth that is provided by the cloud  and can control the bandwidth dynamically.","An embodiment of a data structure  embodying a request for resources that may be sent by the API  () is shown in . The data structure  can be a file, object, etc. stored in an object-oriented database, a relational database, etc. The data structure  can include one or more portions. A portion may represent a field in a database file, a value or characteristic or an object, etc. There may be more or fewer portions than those shown in , as represented by ellipses . It should be noted that the data structure  can include or another data structure can include the data described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010\/0278327, published on Nov. 4, 2010, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all that it teaches and for all purposes.","The access element ID  is any numeric, alphanumeric, or other code that uniquely identifies the access element ID . In embodiments, the access element ID  is a globally unique identifier (GUID). Each access element  can have an access element ID . The access element ID  can be provided to the cloud  for directing communications.","The members  can contain the number or type of devices being serviced by the access element . In alternative embodiments, the resources needed  are provided. In other words, what type or kind of resources. For example, the resources needed  can include whether bandwidth is needed or other resources from the cloud.","The maximum bandwidth  designates the most bandwidth that may be needed by the access element . The maximum bandwidth  can be used to determine allotments to the access element  or to audit the bandwidth used by the access element . Generally, the access element  maintains the maximum bandwidth  for the devices  and\/or . After the access element is provided bandwidth, the access element ID , the members and\/or resources needed , and the maximum bandwidth  are static unless an event (e.g., a device failure, etc) changes the access element  or the devices serviced by the access element .","The minimum bandwidth  provides to the cloud  the amount of bandwidth that needs to be allotted to the access element . Per call bandwidth is the amount of bandwidth needed for each call. A per call bandwidth can include an average amount of bandwidth used per call or denotes the highest historical bandwidth needed for a call by access element . The currently used bandwidth is a measure of that amount of bandwidth being used by the access element  to conduct all the calls currently administered by the access element . As calls are started or completed, the currently used bandwidth changes. The minimum bandwidth  may be based on the average per call bandwidth multiplied by the number of devices being services and\/or the currently used bandwidth. The minimum bandwidth  may also represent a bandwidth threshold at which the access element  will need to request more bandwidth. For example, the bandwidth threshold may be 80% of the maximum bandwidth . If the currently used bandwidth exceeds the bandwidth threshold, the access element  would need to request more bandwidth. Other values, measurements, and calculation results may be used in the request information  as provided below.","An embodiment of a method , from the perspective of the access element , , and\/or , for receiving bandwidth from the cloud  is shown in . Generally, the method  begins with a start operation  and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method  are shown in , the method  can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method  can be executed as a set of computer-executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter, the method  shall be explained with reference to the systems, components, modules, data structures, etc. described in conjunction with . Further, the access element , , and\/or  shall be delineated as access element  and the providing server shall be delineated as server  of the cloud . It should be noted that any access element , , and\/or  may function either as the requesting access element.","The requesting access element  receives a stimulus, in step . A stimulus may be the initial creation of the device group serviced by the access element , a request for a call from a device, a request for a call, or a recovery from a failure event (e.g., a network outage) by the access element  or a device. A requesting access element  may restart or initialize in response to the stimulus.","Upon initialization, the requesting access element  will determine if there is enough bandwidth to address the stimulus, in step . To accomplish the determination, the call\/data processing server  of the requesting access element  can search a database for previously allotted bandwidth or whether bandwidth has previously been allotted. In alternative embodiments, the bandwidth negotiation module  may store and search for bandwidth information for the call\/data processing server . If there is no bandwidth required, step  proceeds NO to step . If bandwidth is required, step  proceeds YES to step .","In step , the access element  requests bandwidth from the cloud . The bandwidth negotiation module  can signal the API  to request the bandwidth. Then, the API  can search for location information or other identifying information for a server  of the cloud . The request  sent by the API  can be as described in conjunction with . Thus, the bandwidth negotiation module  can determine the minimum and maximum bandwidth requirements to provided to the API . The API  places this information in the request that is sent to the cloud . The API  may then receive a response from the cloud , in step .","The bandwidth negotiation module  receives the information from the response from the API . From the information, the bandwidth negotiation module  determines if the bandwidth is provided. In embodiments, the cloud  can either deny the bandwidth allotment or provide a bandwidth allotment between or at the minimum and\/or maximum bandwidth needs (as described in conjunction with ). If no bandwidth is allotted, the bandwidth negotiation module  can signal the call\/data processing server , and step  flows NO to step , where the call\/data processing server  can deny a call. If bandwidth is allotted, the bandwidth negotiation module  can signal the call\/data processing server  with the amount of bandwidth allotted or with a signal that calls may be made, and step  flows YES to step .","In step , the bandwidth negotiation module  of the requesting access element  sets the available bandwidth to the received bandwidth, which is the maximum allowed bandwidth for the devices. Then, the bandwidth negotiation module  can provide the bandwidth allotment to the call\/data processing server . The call\/data processing server  can then receives calls or allows calls, in step , with the allotted bandwidth.","An embodiment of a method , from the perspective of the bandwidth providing server  in the cloud , for providing bandwidth to a requesting access element  is shown in . Generally, the method  begins with a start operation  and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method  are shown in , the method  can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method  can be executed as a set of computer-executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter, the method  shall be explained with reference to the systems, components, modules, data structures, etc. described in conjunction with . Further, the requesting access element shall be delineated as access element  and the providing server shall be delineated as server . It should be noted that any server within the cloud  may function as the providing server.","The providing server  receives a request from a access element  for bandwidth. The bandwidth request may ask for an initial allotment (that is, the access element  needs a first allotment rather than an increase in the existing allotment). Thus, the providing server  can try to give as much bandwidth as possible to the requesting access element  rather than a set amount. The providing server  determines the minimum bandwidth the access element  needs to keep (minK), the maximum bandwidth to give (MaxG), and the available bandwidth as described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010\/0278327, published on Nov. 4, 2010, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all that it teaches and for all purposes. MinK is the maximum of the used bandwidth, the low bandwidth threshold, or the per call bandwidth. MaxG is the amount of administered bandwidth divided by the number of servers in the cloud  (e.g. 60,000 MBps\/6 servers=10,000 MBps per server). Available bandwidth is the result of minimum bandwidth minus used bandwidth.","The providing server  then determines if the available bandwidth is greater than the minimum bandwidth asked for by the access element , in step . In other words, does the providing server  have more bandwidth available than the minimum bandwidth requested. If available bandwidth is greater than minimum bandwidth, the step  flows YES to step . If available bandwidth is not greater than minimum bandwidth, the method  flows NO to step .","In step , the server  determines to give nothing to the requesting access element . The server  then sends a denial response to the API  of the access element . The denial response denies the request for bandwidth. In step , the server  determines the amount of bandwidth to give. In embodiments, the server  compares the available bandwidth to the maximum bandwidth request in the request from the access element . If there is more available bandwidth that the maximum bandwidth, the server  provides the maximum bandwidth. However, if the available bandwidth is less than the maximum bandwidth, the server  provides the available bandwidth. A response is generated with the amount of provided bandwidth and sent from the server  to the access element , in step . The determination of bandwidth allotment for an access element  may also be as described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010\/0278327, published on Nov. 4, 2010, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all that it teaches and for all purposes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","605","610","615","605","610","615","605","610","615","605","610","615","620","600"]},"System  further includes a network . The network  can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially-available protocols, including, without limitation, TCP\/IP, SNA, IPX, AppleTalk, and the like. Merely by way of example, the network  maybe a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), such as an Ethernet network, a Token-Ring network and\/or the like; a wide-area network; a virtual network, including without limitation a virtual private network (\u201cVPN\u201d); the Internet; an intranet; an extranet; a public switched telephone network (\u201cPSTN\u201d); an infra-red network; a wireless network (e.g., a network operating under any of the IEEE 602.11 suite of protocols, the Bluetooth\u2122 protocol known in the art, and\/or any other wireless protocol); and\/or any combination of these and\/or other networks.","The system  may also include one or more server computers , . One server may be a web server , which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers , , and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above, as well as any commercially-available server operating systems. The web server  can also run a variety of server applications, including HTTP servers, FTP servers, CGI servers, database servers, Java servers, and the like. In some instances, the web server  may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.","The system  may also include one or more file and or\/application servers , which can, in addition to an operating system, include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers , , . The server(s)  may be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers ,  and . As one example, the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language, such as Java\u2122, C, C#\u2122 or C++, and\/or any scripting language, such as Perl, Python, or TCL, as well as combinations of any programming\/scripting languages. The application server(s)  may also include database servers, including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle, Microsoft, Sybase\u2122, IBM\u2122 the like, which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .","The web pages created by the web application server  may be forwarded to a user computer  via a web server . Similarly, the web server  may be able to receive web page requests, web services invocations, and\/or input data from a user computer  and can forward the web page requests and\/or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments, the server  may function as a file server. Although for ease of description, FIG.  illustrates a separate web server  and file\/application server , those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers ,  may be performed by a single server and\/or a plurality of specialized servers, depending on implementation-specific needs and parameters. The computer systems , , and , file server  and\/or application server  may function as server , access element , , and\/or , or other systems described herein.","The system  may also include a database . The database  may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example, database  may reside on a storage medium local to (and\/or resident in) one or more of the computers , , , , . Alternatively, it may be remote from any or all of the computers , , , , , and in communication (e.g., via the network ) with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments, the database  may reside in a storage-area network (\u201cSAN\u201d) familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly, any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers , , , ,  may be stored locally on the respective computer and\/or remotely, as appropriate. In one set of embodiments, the database  may be a relational database, such as Oracle 10i\u2122, that is adapted to store, update, and retrieve data in response to SQL-formatted commands.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","755","705","710","715","700","720","720"]},"The computer system  may additionally include a computer-readable storage media reader ; a communications system  (e.g., a modem, a network card (wireless or wired), an infra-red communication device, etc.); and working memory , which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments, the computer system  may also include a processing acceleration unit , which can include a DSP, a special-purpose processor and\/or the like.","The computer-readable storage media reader  can further be connected to a computer-readable storage medium, together (and, optionally, in combination with storage device(s) ) comprehensively representing remote, local, fixed, and\/or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and\/or more permanently containing computer-readable information. The communications system  may permit data to be exchanged with the network  and\/or any other computer described above with respect to the system . Moreover, as disclosed herein, the term \u201cstorage medium\u201d may represent one or more devices for storing data, including read only memory (ROM), random access memory (RAM), magnetic RAM, core memory, magnetic disk storage mediums, optical storage mediums, flash memory devices and\/or other machine readable mediums for storing information.","The computer system  may also comprise software elements, shown as being currently located within a working memory , including an operating system  and\/or other code . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system  may have numerous variations from that described above. For example, customized hardware might also be used and\/or particular elements might be implemented in hardware, software (including portable software, such as applets), or both. Further, connection to other computing devices such as network input\/output devices may be employed.","In the foregoing description, for the purposes of illustration, methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments, the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine-executable instructions, which may be used to cause a machine, such as a general-purpose or special-purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine-executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums, such as CD-ROMs or other types of optical disks, floppy diskettes, ROMs, RAMs, EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, flash memory, or other types of machine-readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively, the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.","Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example, circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances, well-known circuits, processes, algorithms, structures, and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.","Also, it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart, a flow diagram, a data flow diagram, a structure diagram, or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process, many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition, the order of the operations may be re-arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed, but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method, a function, a procedure, a subroutine, a subprogram, etc. When a process corresponds to a function, its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.","Furthermore, embodiments may be implemented by hardware, software, firmware, middleware, microcode, hardware description languages, or any combination thereof. When implemented in software, firmware, middleware or microcode, the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor(s) may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure, a function, a subprogram, a program, a routine, a subroutine, a module, a software package, a class, or any combination of instructions, data structures, or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and\/or receiving information, data, arguments, parameters, or memory contents. Information, arguments, parameters, data, etc. may be passed, forwarded, or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing, message passing, token passing, network transmission, etc.","While illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described in detail herein, it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed, and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations, except as limited by the prior art."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure is described in conjunction with the appended figures:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
