---
title: Storage path management bus view
abstract: In large complex multi-path storage environments, knowing there is a problem is extremely valuable. Example embodiments of the present invention include a management framework that provides an easy to use and read graphical perspective that allows analysis of faults in a multi-path storage environment. The architecture is not only responsive, scalable, and robust, but also provides “middleware” services to a broad spectrum of enterprise management applications whose domains may extend beyond storage path management. The management framework includes a consolidator that, along with an agent on the hosts, supports an administrator in: collecting storage path information from hosts; summarizing, aggregating, filtering, and reformatting storage path information to serve enterprise management needs and policies; forwarding an alert regarding storage path information to interested managers; routing storage path management commands from managers to hosts; and reporting command completion status from the host back to the requesting manager.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08520533&OS=08520533&RS=08520533
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08520533
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 13\/250,314 entitled \u201cSTORAGE PATH MANAGEMENT HOST VIEW\u201d, 13\/250,449 entitled \u201cSTORAGE PATH MANAGEMENT ARCHITECTURE\u201d, and 13\/250,583 entitled \u201cSTORAGE PATH MANAGEMENT HOST AGENT\u201d, filed concurrently with the present Application on Sep. 30, 2011, the teachings of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.","A portion of the disclosure of this patent document may contain command formats and other computer language listings, all of which are subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","This application relates to storage path management.","Enterprise storage systems store data in large-scale environments and differ from consumer storage systems in both the size of the environment and the types of technologies that store and manage the data. Storage area networks (SANs) are commonly used in enterprise storage systems to transfer data between computer systems and storage devices. A typical SAN provides a communication infrastructure, including physical connections between computer systems, storage devices, and a management layer that organizes the connections between computer systems and storage devices.","In a SAN environment, computer systems, typically referred to as hosts, connect to the SAN via one or more host bus adapters. In the case of a Fibre Channel SAN, the physical connections between hosts and storage devices may include special Fibre Channel host bus adapters, Fibre Channel switches, Fibre Channel routers, and optical fiber.","Storage devices may include multiple disk drives that combine to form a disk array. A typical disk array includes a disk array controller, a cache, disk enclosures, and a power supply. Examples of disk arrays include the SYMMETRIX Integrated Cache Disk Array System the CLARIION Disk Array System, both available from EMC Corporation of Hopkinton, Mass. A disk array controller is a piece of hardware that provides storage services to computer systems that access the disk array. The disk array controller may attach to a number of disk drives that are located in the disk enclosures. For example, the disk drives may be organized into redundant array of inexpensive disks (RAID) groups for redundancy and efficient performance. RAID is a system that uses multiple disk drives that share or replicate data among the drives. Accordingly, a RAID system can present multiple physical hard drives to a host as a single logical disk drive.","Disk array controllers connect to a SAN via a port. A port serves as an interface between the disk array controller and other devices, such as the hosts, in the SAN. Each disk array controller typically includes two or more ports. Disk array controllers may communicate with other devices using various protocols, such as the SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) command protocol over a Fibre Channel link to the SAN. In the SCSI command protocol, each device is assigned a unique numerical identifier, which is referred to as a logical unit number (LUN). Further, communication using the SCSI protocol is said to occur between an \u201cinitiator\u201d (e.g., a host bus adapter port) and a \u201ctarget\u201d (e.g., a storage controller port) via a path (i.e., a storage path). For example, a path may include a host bus adapter port, associated SCSI bus or Fibre Channel cabling, a disk array port, and a LUN. The types of path components in use vary with the storage I\/O transport technology in use.","Management of storage paths is provided by path management software. Path management software is a host-based software solution that is used to manage paths and, among other things, can detect load imbalances across paths and buses and can identify alternate paths through which to route data. An example of path management software is EMC POWERPATH by EMC Corporation of Hopkinton, Mass.","Although prior path management software systems may monitor load balances and identify alternate paths through which to route data, a network or storage administrator must evaluate network path faults. Current approaches for detecting setup and path problems in a SAN require analysis of difficult to read output from various user interfaces, including CLIs. Although custom programming and scripts are available to monitor system logs and device states, the number of path faults that an administrator must identify and remedy increases dramatically as the amount of data and number of physical connections between initiators and targets increase. This may cause a delay in the administrator restoring a path, and lead to increased costs due to having administrators responsible for managing path management. Further, detecting setup and path problems in prior path management systems require the use of custom programming\/scripts to monitor system logs and device states or a host-based Command Line Interface (CLI) typically accessed via remote shell and analysis of complex and unwieldy text output from CLIs.","Example embodiments of the present invention relate to a method, an apparatus and a computer-program product for providing an indication regarding a bus state according to the analyzed edge point information. The method includes receiving edge point state information for a bus in a multi-pathing environment, analyzing the received edge point state information, and providing an indication regarding a bus state according to the analyzed edge point information.","Traditional path management systems hide problems in a storage area network (SAN) or other interconnection mechanism between hosts and arrays. The main purpose of a path management system is twofold: (1) failover (i.e., when an I\/O fails down one path, it is sent down another path); and (2) load balancing (i.e., the ability to increase bandwidth by sending I\/Os down multiple parallel paths). Because multi-pathing failover is so effective, it hides problems in the SAN from applications performing I\/Os. However, administrators need to know about these problems because, if allowed to persist, more problems could occur and eventually the application could be impacted. Additionally, a multi-pathing system may be misconfigured and cannot use all the paths presented to it for accessing a logical unit (LU). In this case, even a single problem will impact the application. Accordingly, example embodiments of the present invention address these problems and provide a way to survey all the hosts (e.g., up to tens of thousands of hosts in certain data centers) to make sure they are not misconfigured.","Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","100","0","185","1","185","110","180","1","195","2","195","1","4","192","192","0","190","1","190","100"],"sub":["0 ","1 ","1 ","2 ","1","4 ","0 ","1"]},"In large complex multi-path storage environments , as illustrated in , knowing there is a problem is extremely valuable. Traditional approaches for management of a multi-path storage environment  involve the use of command line interfaces (CLIs) and other utilities running on the multi-pathed host . While this approach may be satisfactory for single-host functionality, the ascendance of host virtualization and embedded operating systems has rendered the CLI-based approach obsolete. Also, the deluge of data generated from the multi-path host involves time-consuming manual intervention by an administrator to inspect it in order to make it meaningful (i.e., expert analysis of the results from CLIs is required to determine if a fault has occurred and if the storage multi-path parameters are configured properly). This process is time consuming and prone to mistakes and confusion.","This leads to a strong need for an intelligent component active in the host which filters and aggregates the relevant data and prepares it for distribution and consumption by external entities. Accordingly, example embodiments of the present invention include a management framework supporting such tasks that provides an easy to use and read graphical perspective that allows analysis of faults in a multi-path storage environment at a glance. The architecture is not only responsive, scalable, and robust, but also provides \u201cmiddleware\u201d services to a broad spectrum of enterprise management applications whose domains may extend beyond storage path management.","The management framework includes a consolidator  that, along with a respective agent  on each of the hosts  that collects storage path information , supports an administrator in: discovering storage path management driver (e.g., multi-pathing driver) instances  on hosts ; collecting and storing  path information  from hosts ; summarizing, aggregating, filtering, and reformatting storage path information  to serve enterprise management needs and policies; forwarding processed storage path information as an alert regarding storage path information  to interested managers ; routing storage path management commands  from managers  to hosts  as forwarded storage path management commands ; and reporting command completion status  from the host  back to the requesting manager .","The management framework also includes, according to example embodiments of the present invention, a graphical user interface (GUI)  that displays a storage path management application that allows viewing multi-path storage environments in a simplified manner. This path management architecture supports identifying problems, including path state and path setup state problems, at a glance. As will be described below in greater detail, an administrator may drill down through information made available via the GUI to storage devices to determine origins of a problem without having to interact with the host (e.g., physically going to a host, remotely connecting to a host or using CLI tools). Accordingly, the architecture allows responsive and detailed path state monitoring across a large population of hosts, as well as active management of paths on hosts, and RESTful-style web services.","Host Agent",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["230","230","230"]},"As illustrated in , at the bottom of the framework is a common host presence, or agent , residing on each multi-pathed host . At system startup on the host , the agent  discovers the host's multi-pathing resources (e.g., SCSI Initiator-Target-LU nexus (I-T-L)) and their initial states by communicating with the multi-pathing driver  via, for example, a multi-pathing application programming interface (API) (not shown). The agent  then listens for storage path information  (e.g., storage path management events and storage path resource information) via, for example, a kernel event interface (not shown) available via the same API. Path events can be either polled for by the agent  or generated asynchronously by the driver  via, for example asynchronous event notification (AEN).","The host agent  may provide at least the following functionality with respect to storage path information : (1) a host path event processor to aggregate, summarize, filter, and reformat storage path management events as alerts; and (2) an alert broadcaster to forward processed storage path management events as alerts (i.e., results of complex event processing) to listening managers.","The host agent  also listens for network connections from one of at least three possible types of managers: (1) a path management GUI or CLI; (2) another type of manager requiring storage path information directly from a host; and (3) a host information consolidator (as will be discussed below with respect to ). Accordingly, the host agent  may listen for storage path management commands  from managers  for processing at the host . The storage path management commands  may be forwarded to the multi-pathing driver , or other host-based resources, as multi-pathing driver commands  for execution on the host .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["230","230","234","236","234","234"]},"Each agent object  further processes alerts from monitor objects  and forwards alerts for consumption by interested external managers -, -, - (, generally), for example, according to a protocol understood by the listening management entities . Monitor objects  and agent objects  are in a many-to-many relationship, which essentially means multiple types of external managers  are free to monitor any and all storage path information in the multi-path kernel driver . This relationship is enabled by two primary queues, one for storage path information collected from the multi-path kernel driver , and the other for the alerts generated by the monitor objects .","Referring to , the management component also allows for active management of a multi-pathed host. External managers  send requests (i.e., storage path management commands ) on demand to hosts  to either manage or retrieve detailed path information, for example. The agent objects  receive the storage path management commands  from managers  according to the protocol of the manager. It should be understood that, while the agent objects  are listening for storage path management commands  from the managers  according to a protocol, the agent objects  also may be listening for alerts customized by the monitor objects  for particular managers  according to the protocol. Accordingly, the class design consisting of sets of monitor objects  and agent objects  allows concurrent handling of requests  received from external managers  and processing of kernel path events (i.e., storage path information ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 4A-4D"],"b":["330","3","4","4"]},"As illustrated in , a receiver module  of an agent  may receive storage path information  () (e.g., storage path management events and storage path resource information) from a multi-pathing driver (e.g., multi-pathing driver  of ). An analyzer module  then may create an alert according to the storage path information (). According to the alert (e.g., alert  of ) created by the analyzer module , a distributor module  then may distribute the alert  to listening management entities (e.g., one or more of managers  of ) in the multi-path storage environment (e.g., multi-path storage environment  of ) ().","As illustrated in , in certain embodiments, the analyzer module  may create the alert by analyzing the storage path information . For example, the analyzer module  may summarize the storage path information  (e.g., from each of a plurality of hosts) (), aggregate the storage path information  (e.g., from the plurality of hosts) () and filter the storage path information  (e.g., according to a type of storage path information ) (). Example types of storage path information  include storage path management events and storage path resource information. Storage path management events may include, for example, path up, path down, all paths down, not all paths down, bus down, bus up, and policy change. Storage path resource information may include, for example, path added and path deleted. The distributor module  then may prepare the alert  for distribution, as illustrated in .","As illustrated in , in certain embodiments, to filter the storage path information  (), the analyzer module  may examine a stream of storage path information  (), determine a type of storage path information for each item of storage path information  in the stream (), and categorize the storage path information  according to the determined type ().","As illustrated in , when distributing the alert  (), the distributor module  may prepare the alert  for distribution to listening management entities in the multi-pathing environment according to a protocol understood by the listening management entities () and distribute the alert  to listening management entities in the multi-pathing environment according to the protocol understood by the listening management entities (). The agent  then has transferred the alert  to management entities (e.g., manager  of ) monitoring the type of storage path information in the alert .","In further embodiments, the agent  allows active management of multi-pathed hosts (e.g., host  of ) by managers (e.g., manager  of ). For example, the receiver module  may receive a storage path management command  from a manager  in a multi-path storage environment. The agent  then may engage host resources to process the storage path management request. It should be understood that, while the agent  is listening for storage path management commands  from the managers  according to a protocol, the agent  also may be listening for storage path information  from a multi-pathing driver (e.g., multi-pathing driver  of ). Accordingly, the design of the agent  allows concurrent handling of storage path management commands  received from external managers  and processing of storage path information  from the multi-pathing driver .","Consolidator",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["540","540","535","510","540","535"]},"The consolidator  may provide at least the following functionality with respect to storage path information : (1) as a single-point-of-access aggregator for a path management GUI or CLI so that the latter need only connect to the consolidator  to access a range of hosts , and so that hosts  need only interact with a single entity (i.e., the consolidator ) rather than each manager ; (2) as a repository of storage path information  (e.g., current topology and configuration information, and historical information about events, alerts and performance, as well as configuration changes) stored in a repository  of , for example, for consumption by managers  connecting to the consolidator  after the fact of the original storage path information; and (3) as a services provider offering management of multi-pathing and other host-based services, including active management command  handling and web services, to managers  higher up the information chain over RESTful interfaces, for example.","Accordingly, the consolidator  may listen for storage path management commands  from managers  for forwarding, via aggregation, processing and distribution, as storage path management commands to hosts  for processing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 7A-7D"],"b":["640","6","7","7"]},"As illustrated in , a receiver module  of the consolidator  may receive storage path information  () (e.g., storage path management events and storage path resource information) from a host (e.g., host  of ). An analyzer module  then may analyze the storage path information  (). According to the analysis by the analyzer module , an indicator module  then may provide an alert  regarding the storage path information  ().","As illustrated in , to receive storage path information (), the receiver module  may discover hosts  supporting the multi-pathing environment (e.g., multi-path storage environment  of ) (), collect storage path information  from the hosts (), and store the storage path information  in, for example, a secure and highly available repository  ().","As illustrated in , in certain embodiments, to analyze the storage path information  (), the analyzer module  may analyze attributes of the storage path information  () and consolidate storage path information  having a common attribute (). As illustrated in , in other embodiments, the analyzer module  may aggregate the storage path information  (), filter the storage path information  according to at least one attribute (), and reformat the filtered storage path information  to serve enterprise management needs and policies ()","In further embodiments, the indicator module  may forward the consolidated storage path information  according to the attribute, such as to a manager listening for storage path information conforming to the attribute.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIGS. 7E-7H","b":["6","7","7"]},"As illustrated in , a receiver module  of the consolidator  may receive a storage path management command  associated with storage path information () (e.g., storage path management events and storage path resource information) from a manager (e.g., manager  of ). An analyzer module  then may analyze the storage path management command  to determine hosts (e.g., hosts  of ) associated with the storage path command (). A routing module  then may forward (i.e., deliver) the storage path management command  to at least one host according to the analysis (). As illustrated in , in certain embodiments, to analyze the storage path management command  (), the analyzer module  may analyze attributes of the storage path management command  () and determine at least one host associated with the storage path management command  according to the analyzed attributes ().","As illustrated in , in certain embodiments, to forward the storage path management command  to at least one host according to the analysis () the routing module  may determine at least one host associated with the storage path command (), correlate the storage path management command  and the at least one host according to the storage path information (), and route the storage path management command  to the at least one host (). As illustrated in , in other embodiments, the receiver module  may receive an indication from the at least one host of completion of the command (). The consolidator  then may report completion of the command to a manager that issued the command () via an indicator module . The indicator module  further may update the manager regarding a storage path information state change resulting from completion of the command at the at least one host (). Additionally, in other embodiments, the state change update may be sent to managers other than the one that issued the command.","Storage path management commands  may include active management commands of the multi-pathing driver, such as PowerPath by EMC Corporation of Hopkinton, Mass. Active management includes, for example, turning on or off performance monitoring, setting thresholds for events, such as latency monitoring threshold, turning on or off other features, setting other parameters on the host, setting multi-pathing policy, or other multi-pathing related items. Active management commands also can be used to manage other aspects of filter drivers on the host, (other than multi-pathing) such as turning encryption on or off for a logical unit or managing migrations through a tool, such as PowerPath Migration Enabler by EMC Corporation of Hopkinton, Mass.","Remote active management through the consolidator  provides a number of advantages. For example, the consolidator  can provide a central point for security (e.g., authentication and authorization) for remote active management. The consolidator  also can perform complex commands that need to have participation from multiple hosts , such as setting a latency monitoring threshold on a number of hosts grouped together by common purpose. As understood in the art, routing of a command to hosts is particularly hard with traditional management software. Take, for example, a scenario of disabling an array port prior to a maintenance operation when that array port is connected to many hosts. Traditionally, one uses array management software to identify the array port. However, there is no easy way to find all the hosts connected to that array port. Even if one is able to determine all the hosts connected to the array port, one has to execute the disable port command individually on each of the hosts.","Example embodiments of the present invention, however, provide the ability to send one command to the consolidator and have the command execute on all the relevant hosts. For example, the consolidator  may first check that all hosts have access to all relevant devices (i.e., devices accessed through that array port) through some other array port and that multi-pathing policies are configured correctly. The consolidator  then may issue the command to each host to disable the array port. Additionally, the consolidator  may send the command to hosts that may have been down when the command originally was issued, thereby ensuring that the command is issued to such hosts when they come back up. Further, a second complex command can be handled to reverse the process of disabling the array port once the maintenance operation has been completed.","Viewer",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","810","860","800","810","860","890"]},"As used herein, \u201cbus\u201d refers to two connected SAN edge points (e.g., fibre channel fabric N-port addresses) in the storage configuration, such as an HBA port on a host on one end and an array port on the other. As used herein, \u201cpath\u201d refers to the physical or virtual route between a host and a storage system LUN, including the HBA port, cables, a switch, a storage system interface and port, and an LU. Typically, multiple paths traverse a single bus. As a result, a bus failure is usually accompanied by multiple path failures.","The storage path management application  enables an administrator to view and monitor a plurality of multi-path hosts through a GUI. In certain embodiments, the storage path management application  allows viewing and monitoring of up to 500 hosts. The storage path management application  provides interfaces for viewing hosts, host groups, buses, LUNs, and individual paths to each LUN. The storage path management application  presents the information in windows and panes (i.e., Views) which an administrator may use to organize multi-path environment information in a customized manner.","In certain embodiments, the storage path management application  alerts administrators to changes in the status of multi-path devices through two monitors (not shown): Path Alert Monitor, for changes in paths and LUNs; and Bus Alert Monitor, for changes in a bus. Additionally, in other embodiments, the storage path management application  may send emails to an administrator or another user when an alert is detected.","Table 1, below, describes the main tasks that are carried out using the storage path management application  and the Views where they are carried out:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Views used for storage path management tasks."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Task","Description","Carried out in . . ."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Discover and","Monitor status of I\/O access on","Host View"]},{"entry":["monitor","PowerPath hosts",{}]},{"entry":["hosts",{},{}]},{"entry":["Monitor buses","Monitor status of I\/O access on HBA ","Host Bus View"]},{"entry":[{},"ports and array ports",{}]},{"entry":["Monitor LUNs","Monitor status of I\/O access on LUNs ","Host LUN View"]},{"entry":["and paths","and paths",{}]},{"entry":["Manage alerts","Monitor and respond to alerts of","Alert Monitor,"]},{"entry":[{},"change in I\/O access to PowerPath ","Bus Alert Monitor"]},{"entry":[{},"hosts, buses, LUNs, and paths",{}]},{"entry":["Manage email","Configure email addressee and return","Preferences"]},{"entry":[{},"address list for alerts that are sent to ",{}]},{"entry":[{},"the Alert Monitor or Bus Alert Monitor"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The storage path management application  also provides filter function that is similar to an advanced search. For example, the storage path management application  matches the text that is typed in a filter field first by columns that are searchable by text. Additional criteria may be provided, such as via a drop-down list, for further filter results. The storage path management application  filters out rows that do not contain text specified in the filter field by the criteria selected in the drop-down list, leaving in the selected View (i.e., the View for which the filter icon was clicked) only those rows that contain matches for the selected text and other selected criteria. The filter criteria exist for all the Host View, the Host Bus View, and the Host LUN View.","The Host View contains another set of filter criteria related to the status of the multi-path hosts, paths, and policy. The criteria are: All (default), Setup Error, Setup Warning, Path Error, and Path Warning. The LUN View contains a similar set of filter criteria related to the status of the multi-path managed LUNs. The criteria are: All (default), LUN Warning, and LUN Failure. These filters criteria filter at the level chosen and any levels beyond the level chosen. For example, filtering by Path Warning returns rows with hosts experiencing both path warning and path failure in Host View.","Host View",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["910","800","910","100"]},"The basic tasks carried out from the Host View include: (1) Viewing and monitoring multi-path hosts  and host groups ; (2) Discovering multi-path hosts  for viewing within the storage path management application  (i.e., going through a process of recognizing hosts that the storage path management application  already manages on the network); (3) Creating host groups  for organizing within the storage path management application ; and (4) Removing multi-path hosts and host groups  for viewing within the storage path management application .","As illustrated in , the host view component  includes information columns relating to hosts and host groups , path state , path setup state , host operating system , and host multi-path driver version .","The host group\/host column  provides a name of a multi-path host group (e.g., a business unit, \u201cFinance\u201d). A host group is a group of multi-path hosts that are gathered together for organizing within the storage path management application. When the host group is expanded, the host group\/host column  displays the name of each multi-path host in the group (e.g., lclb021.lss.emc.com and lclb107.lss.emc.com). In certain embodiments, the hostname is not assigned through the storage path management application or through the multi-path host discovery process. It should be noted that changes to the hostname or Internet protocol (IP) address of a host may require deletion and rediscovery of the host.","The path column  provides an indication of the state of LUNs in the host group and for each host.","The setup column  provides an indication of the condition or health of a failover policy for the host; that is, whether the host group or host is operating in an optimal failover policy for its licensed state. The setup column also provides an indication of the state of paths to LUNs in the host group and the condition or health of path-to-LUN configuration ratio.","The operating system  and version  columns provide an indication of the operating system running on the multi-path hosts within the host group and the version and build of the multi-path driver running on the multi-path hosts with the host group, respectively.","The host view component  receives information for display, for example, from a consolidator (e.g., consolidator  of ). Individual hosts  are displayed in rows, with hosts  being grouped  according to an attribute, such as by user preference. For example, as illustrated in , hosts  are grouped according to a business unit, \u201cFinance\u201d.","The analysis of the path state and path setup state is provided at multiple levels (e.g., individual host level and host group level). Each host running a multi-path driver is provided its own row in the table. Each host belongs to one or more groups in the table, each of which may have many members.","Table 2, below, illustrates each path state and icon, along with a description of the path state at the host level and the host group level. Similarly, Table 3, below, illustrates each path setup state and icon, along with a description of the path setup state at the host level and the host group level.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Path state information."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Path State\/",{},"Host "]},{"entry":["Icon Description","Host-level Description","Group-level Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["OK\/","All LUNs are accessible","All hosts are responding."]},{"entry":["Check Mark","All paths are alive","All LUNs are operational;"]},{"entry":[{},{},"there is full I\/O access on "]},{"entry":[{},{},"all LUNs."]},{"entry":[{},{},"All host paths are alive"]},{"entry":["Warning\/","All LUNs are accessible","All hosts are responding."]},{"entry":["Exclamation ","but there is degraded ","One or more hosts have"]},{"entry":["Point","LUN I\/O access.","degraded LUN I\/O access"]},{"entry":[{},"One or more paths are dead.",{}]},{"entry":[{},"No LUNs are configured",{}]},{"entry":["Unknown\/","No LUN information is","One or more hosts are not"]},{"entry":["Question Mark","available","responding"]},{"entry":[{},"No path information is",{}]},{"entry":[{},"available",{}]},{"entry":["Critical\/","One or more LUNs are ",{}]},{"entry":["X","not accessible"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Path setup state information."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Path Setup State\/",{},"Host "]},{"entry":["Icon Description","Host-level Description","Group-level Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["OK\/","Host has a valid license","All hosts are OK"]},{"entry":["Check Mark","Host is connected to viewer",{}]},{"entry":[{},"application",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Heartbeat is coming from host",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Host running optimal load-",{}]},{"entry":[{},"balancing policy",{}]},{"entry":[{},"All paths are configuration",{}]},{"entry":[{},"compliant (e.g., more than one",{}]},{"entry":[{},"path is configured to the LUN)",{}]},{"entry":["Warning\/","Host license expires within a","One or more hosts are "]},{"entry":["Exclamation","set period","in a Warning state"]},{"entry":["Point","No LUNs are configured",{}]},{"entry":["Unknown\/","Host is not responding to TCP ","One or more hosts are"]},{"entry":["Question Mark","connection attempts","not responding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"All other hosts are OK "]},{"entry":[{},{},"or in a Warning state"]},{"entry":["Critical\/","One or more hosts have an","One or more hosts are "]},{"entry":["X","error with respect to setup","in a Critical state"]},{"entry":[{},"Host license is expired",{}]},{"entry":[{},"No multi-path driver",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Multi-path driver not running",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Only one path is configured to",{}]},{"entry":[{},"the LUN",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Only one path is accessible to",{}]},{"entry":[{},"one or more LUNs, its other",{}]},{"entry":[{},"paths having failed"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Accordingly, when the Host Group node  is collapsed, the icons in the path state column  and the path setup state column  represent the most severe state for hosts  contained within that host group . The precedence for most- to least-critical is: Critical, Unknown, Warning, and OK.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIGS. 10A-10G","FIG. 6","FIGS. 10A-10G","FIG. 6"],"b":["910","640"]},"As illustrated in , a receiver module  may receive host path state information (e.g., alert regarding storage path information  of ) () and host path setup state information (e.g., alert regarding storage path information  of ) () in a multi-path storage environment (e.g., multi-path storage environment  of ). An analyzer module  then may analyze the received host path state information and the received host path setup state information (). According to the analysis by the analyzer module , an indicator module  then may provide an alert regarding a host path state (e.g., host path state  of ) for a host and a host path setup state (e.g., host path setup state ) for the host according to the analyzed host path state information ().","In certain embodiments, the receiver module  may receive an indication of whether the host path experiences a fault and receive an indication of whether the host path is multi-pathed properly and whether a load balancing policy for the host path is optimal according to the multi-pathing license for the host, as illustrated above in Table 2 and Table 3. Further, as illustrated in , the analyzer module  may group at least one host according to an attribute common to the at least one host.","As illustrated in , the analyzer module  may determine a host path state for each host in a group of at least one host () and set a group path state for the group of at least one host according to the determined host path state for each host in the group of at least one host ().","As illustrated in , to set a host path state for each host of the group of at least one host according to the determined host path state for each host in the group of at least one host (), the analyzer module  determines whether one or more LUNs are not accessible (). If one or more LUNs are not accessible (A), the analyzer module  sets the host path state to a first host path state () (i.e., critical).","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether no LUN information is available or no path information is available (). If no LUN information is available or no path information is available (A), the analyzer module  sets the host path state to a second host path state () (i.e., unknown).","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether all LUNs are accessible and if there is degraded LUN I\/O access, one or more paths are dead or no LUNs are configured (). If all LUNs are accessible and there is degraded LUN I\/O access, one or more paths are dead or no LUNs are configured (A), the analyzer module sets the host path state to a third host path state () (i.e., warning).","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module determines whether the host is responding, all LUNs are accessible and all paths are alive (). If the host is responding, all LUNs are accessible and all paths are alive (), the analyzer module  sets the host path state to a fourth host path state (i.e., OK).","While the preceding four conditional statements , , ,  should catch all host path states, an error may be thrown if a host path state does not conform to one of the conditions.","As illustrated in , to set a group path state for the group of at least one host according to the determined host path state for each host in the group of at least one host (), the analyzer module  determines whether one or more hosts are in the first host path state (i.e., critical) only (). If one or more hosts are in the first host path state only (A), the analyzer module  sets the group path state to a first group path state () (i.e., critical).","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether one or more hosts are in the second host path state (i.e., unknown) and no hosts are in the first host path state (i.e., critical) (). If one or more hosts are in the second host path state (i.e., unknown) and no hosts are in the first host path state (i.e., critical) (A), the analyzer module  sets the group path state to a second group path state () (i.e., unknown).","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether one or more hosts are in the third host path state (i.e., warning), no hosts are in the first host path state (i.e., critical) and no hosts are in the second host path state (i.e., unknown) (). If one or more hosts are in the third host path state (i.e., warning), no hosts are in the first host path state (i.e., critical) and no hosts are in the second host path state (i.e., unknown) (A), the analyzer module sets the group path state to a third group path state () (i.e., warning).","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module determines whether all hosts are in the fourth host path state (). If all hosts are in the fourth host path state (), the analyzer module  sets the group path state to a fourth group path state (i.e., OK).","While the preceding four conditional statements , , ,  should catch all host path state combinations, an error may be thrown if a host path state does not conform to one of the condition combinations.","As illustrated in , the analyzer module  may determine a host path setup state for each host in a group of at least one host ) and set a group path setup state for the group of at least one host according to the determined host path setup state for each host in the group of at least one host ().","As illustrated in , to set a group path setup state for the group of at least one host according to the determined host path setup state for each host in the group of at least one host (), the analyzer module  determines whether the host has an expired license, the host does not have a license, the host is improperly licensed, only one path is configured to the LUN or only one path of a plurality of configured paths is accessible to one or more LUNs (). If the host has an expired license, the host does not have a license, the host is improperly licensed, only one path is configured to the LUN or only one path of a plurality of configured paths is accessible to one or more LUNs (A), the analyzer module  sets the host path setup state to a first host path setup state (i.e., critical) ().","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether the host is not responding (). If the host is not responding to connection requests (A), the analyzer module  sets the host path setup state to a second host path setup state (i.e., unknown) ().","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether the host has a license scheduled to expire within a predetermine period of time or no LUNs are configured (). If the host has a license scheduled to expire within a predetermine period of time or no LUNs are configured (A), the analyzer module  sets the host path setup state to a third host path setup state (i.e., warning) ().","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether the host has a valid license, the host is connected to a management application, a heartbeat is received from the host, the host is running an optimal load-balancing policy or all paths are configuration-compliant (). If the host has a valid license, the host is connected to a management application, a heartbeat is received from the host, the host is running an optimal load-balancing policy and all paths are configuration-compliant (), the analyzer module  sets the host path setup state to a fourth host path setup state (i.e., OK) ().","While the preceding four conditional statements , , ,  should catch all host path setup states, an error may be thrown if a host path setup state does not conform to one of the conditions.","As illustrated in , to set a group path setup state for the group of at least one host according to the determined host path setup state for each host in the group of at least one host (), the analyzer module  determines whether one or more hosts are in the first host path setup state (i.e., critical) (). If one or more hosts are in the first host path setup state (i.e., critical) (A), the analyzer module  sets the group path setup state to a first group path setup state ().","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether one or more hosts are in the second host path setup state (i.e., unknown) and no hosts are in the first host path setup state (i.e., critical) (). If one or more hosts are in the second host path setup state (i.e., unknown) and no hosts are in the first host path setup state (i.e., critical) (A), the analyzer module  sets the group path setup state to a second group path setup state (i.e., unknown) ().","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether one or more hosts are in the third host path setup state (i.e., warning), no hosts are in the first host path setup state (i.e., critical) and no hosts are in the second host path setup state (i.e., unknown) (). If one or more hosts are in the third host path setup state (i.e., warning), no hosts are in the first host path setup state (i.e., critical) and no hosts are in the second host path setup state (i.e., unknown) (A), the analyzer module  sets the group path setup state to a third group path setup state (i.e., warning) ().","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether all hosts are in the fourth host path setup state (i.e., OK) (). If all hosts are in the fourth host path setup state (i.e., OK) (), the analyzer module  sets the group path setup state to a fourth group path setup state (i.e., OK) ().","While the preceding four conditional statements , , ,  should catch all host path setup state combinations, an error may be thrown if a host path setup state does not conform to one of the condition combinations.","Bus View",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":"1100"},"The bus view component  receives information for display, for example, from a consolidator (e.g., consolidator  of ). The Bus View gives provides an administrator an aggregate view of the selected host's buses that are affected by a dead HBA port, dead array port, or dead switch port. Multiple hosts' Bus Views can be correlated to aid root cause analysis of many types of equipment faults within a SAN, such as the multi-path storage environment of .","For example, as illustrated in , the \u201cX\u201d at HBA port A represents a failed HBA port on the storage configuration for the host . As a result of this failed HBA port , the two buses that use HBA port A are dead: (1) HBA port A to Array  port  ; and (2) HBA port A to Array  port  . Consequently, any paths that use HBA port A are dead as well: (1) HBA port A to Array  port  to LUN  ; (2) HBA port A to Array  port  to LUN  ; (3) HBA port A to Array  port  to LUN  ; and (4) HBA port A to Array  port  to LUN  .","Similarly, the \u201cX\u201d at Array  port  represents a failed array port. As a result of this failed array port , bus HBA port A to Port  is dead. Consequently, any paths that use Port  are dead as well: (1) HBA port A to Array  Port  to LUN  ; and (2) HBA port A to Array  Port  to LUN  . Likewise, if a port (not shown) on the fiberchannel switch  fails or the cable connecting the fiberchannel switch  to the array port  fails, the failure displays as an array port failure.","It should be noted that the storage path management application may not be switch-aware. That is, if a switch in the storage configuration becomes degraded, the Host Bus View may show a warning but the dead switch, itself, does not appear in the Host Bus View. For example, if the dead switch is connected to the HBA port, it appears as an HBA port warning Likewise, if the dead switch is connected to of the array port, it appears as an array port warning. This may cause confusion because, upon investigation by an administrator, the HBA ports and array ports in the affected bus may, in fact, be alive. Furthermore, even when an array port is dead, it may not display as dead in the storage path management application but rather as degraded because it is not possible for the storage path management application to determine that it is an array port failure and not an array port-side switch failure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 12A","FIG. 8","FIG. 12A","FIG. 12A","FIG. 6"],"b":["1210","800","1210","1210","1216","1218","1220","1210","640","1212","1214"]},"Table 4, below, illustrates HBA port state and icon, along with a description of the path state for each respective HBA port state. Similarly, Table 5, below, illustrates array port state and icon, along with a description of the path state for each respective array port state.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 4"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"HBA port state information."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["HBA Port State\/",{}]},{"entry":["Icon Description","HBA Port State Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["OK\/","All paths through the HBA port are alive"]},{"entry":["Check Mark",{}]},{"entry":["Warning\/","One or more paths through the HBA port are dead"]},{"entry":["Exclamation Point",{}]},{"entry":["Critical\/","All paths through the HBA port are dead"]},{"entry":"X"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0114"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 5"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Array port state information."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Array Port State\/",{}]},{"entry":["Icon Description","Array Port State Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["OK\/","All paths to the array port are alive"]},{"entry":["Check Mark",{}]},{"entry":["Warning\/","One or more paths to the array port are dead"]},{"entry":"Exclamation Point"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Accordingly, as illustrated in , HBA port   is in an OK HBA port state and HBA port  A is in a Critical HBA port state. Expanding the node for HBA port  A shows that each of the arrays connected to the selected host via HBA port  A, namely arrays 000194900335 and HK190807490042, have array ports experiencing respective failures (i.e., array port FA A of array 000194900335 and array ports SP A and SP B of array HK190807490042). With array ports FA A, SP A, and SP B all in a Warning state because one or more paths to the array port are dead, HBA port  is assigned a Critical HBA port state because all paths through HBA port  are dead.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"figref":["FIG. 12B","FIG. 8","FIG. 12B","FIG. 12B"],"b":["1210","800","0","0","0","0","7"],"i":"g"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":["FIGS. 13A-13D","FIG. 6","FIGS. 13A-13D","FIG. 6"],"b":["910","640"]},"As illustrated in , a receiver module  receives edge point state information (e.g., HBA port information  and array port information  of ) for a bus in a multi-pathing environment (). An analyzer module  then may analyze the received edge point state information (). Based on the analysis, an indicator module  may provide an alert regarding a bus state according to the analyzed edge point information (). The bus may comprise edge points in a SAN. In certain embodiments, the receiver module  may receive an indication of whether an edge point in the pair of edge points comprising the bus experiences a fault.","As illustrated in , the analyzer module  then may determine a first bus state for a first edge point of each pair of edge points in a group of at least one pair of edge points grouped according to a second edge point of each pair of edge points (). The analyzer module  also may set a second bus state for the second edge point according to the first bus state of each respective first edge point of each pair of edge points (). In certain embodiments, the analyzer module  may determine an array port state (e.g., array port state  of ) for each respective path to each array port of each pair of edge points in the group of at least one pair of edge points grouped according to a host bus adapter port of each pair of edge points. Similarly, in other embodiments, the analyzer module  may determine a host bus adapter state (e.g., host bus adapter state  of ) for the group of at least one pair of edge points according to the array port state of each pair of edge points in the group of at least one pair of edge points.","As illustrated in , to determine the first bus state (i.e., array port state) for the first edge point (), the analyzer module  may determine whether one or more paths to the array port are in an unavailable state (). If one or more paths to the array port are in an unavailable state (A), the analyzer module  sets the array port bus state to a first array port bus state (i.e., warning) (). Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether all paths to the array port are in an available state (). If all paths to the array port are in an available state (), the analyzer module  sets the array port bus state to a second array port bus state (i.e., OK) ().","While the preceding two conditional statements ,  should catch all host path setup state combinations, an error may be thrown if an array port bus state does not conform to one of the condition combinations.","As illustrated in , to set a second bus state for the second edge point according to the first bus state of each respective first edge point of each pair of edge points (), the analyzer module  may determine whether all paths through the host bus adapter port are in an unavailable state (). If all paths through the host bus adapter port are in an unavailable state (A), the analyzer module  sets the host bus adapter port state to a first host bus adapter port state (i.e., critical) ().","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether one or more, but not all, paths through the host bus adapter port are in an unavailable state (). If one or more, but not all, paths through the host bus adapter port are in an unavailable state (A), the analyzer module  sets the host bus adapter port state to a second host bus adapter port state (i.e., warning) ().","Otherwise (B), the analyzer module  determines whether all paths through the host bus adapter port are in an available state (). If all paths through the host bus adapter port are in an available state , the analyzer module  sets the host bus adapter port state to a third host bus adapter port state (i.e., OK) ().","While the preceding three conditional statements , ,  should catch all host path setup state combinations, an error may be thrown if an array port bus state does not conform to one of the condition combinations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1435","1435","1490","1495","1480","1460"]},"The methods and apparatus of this invention may take the form, at least partially, of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible non-transitory media, such as floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, random access or read only-memory, or any other machine-readable storage medium. When the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as the computer of , the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on one or more general-purpose processors, the program code combines with such a processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates analogously to specific logic circuits. As such a general purpose digital machine can be transformed into a special purpose digital machine.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1555","1560","1500"]},"The logic for carrying out the method may be embodied as part of the aforementioned system, which is useful for carrying out a method described with reference to embodiments shown in, for example, . For purposes of illustrating the present invention, the invention is described as embodied in a specific configuration and using special logical arrangements, but one skilled in the art will appreciate that the device is not limited to the specific configuration but rather only by the claims included with this specification.","Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly, the present implementations are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein, but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.","The methods and apparatus of the present invention may be used in, for example, storage area networks (SANs) and a virtualization environment, that include data storage systems, such as the SYMMETRIX Integrated Cache Disk Array System or the CLARIION Disk Array System available from EMC Corporation of Hopkinton, Mass., and those provided by vendors other than EMC Corporation.","In reading the above description, persons skilled in the art will realize that there are many apparent variations that can be applied to the methods and systems described. In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to the specific exemplary embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. Accordingly, the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above and further advantages of the present invention may be better under stood by referring to the following description taken into conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 5 and 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 7E-7H"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A-10G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 12A-12B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 13A-13D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
