---
title: Coatings for protection against corrosion in adhesively bonded steel joints
abstract: An apparatus includes a first steel component having a first surface, a second steel component having a second surface, a corrosion resistant coating on at least one of the first and second surfaces, and an adhesive bonding the first and second components together. The corrosion resistant coating can be electrically conductive.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09422459&OS=09422459&RS=09422459
owner: Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation
number: 09422459
owner_city: Falls Church
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110727
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND INFORMATION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This invention was conceived under NAVSEA Contract No. N00024-02-C-2302. The United States Government may have rights to this invention in accordance with the contract.","The present invention relates to adhesively bonded structures and more particularly to corrosion resistant adhesively bonded structures.","Marine corrosion on steel structures is a major problem for the Navy, as well as other commercial ships built of steel. A new technology is being proposed to adhesively bond critical fittings, steel coamings and other steel structures and composites together for marine applications. A problem with adhesive bonded steel structures is that they are susceptible to corrosion. Moisture\/water can pass into the bonded joint and migrate to the steel which will corrode. Organic coatings and adhesives, although helpful with stopping moisture, are not completely effective.","It would be desirable to have adhesively bonded steel structures that are corrosion resistant.","In one aspect the present invention provides an apparatus including a first steel component having a first surface, a second steel component having a second surface, an electrically conductive, corrosion resistant coating on at least one of the first and second surfaces, and an adhesive bonding the first and second components together.","In another aspect the present invention provides an apparatus including a first steel component having a first surface, a second steel component having a second surface, a cermet coating or a ceramic coating on at least one of the first and second surfaces, and an adhesive bonding the first and second components together.","In another aspect the present invention provides an apparatus including a first steel component having a first surface, a second steel component having a second surface, a corrosion resistant coating on at least one of the first and second surfaces, a second corrosion resistant coating on the first corrosion resistant coating, and an adhesive bonding the first and second components together.","These and other aspects of the present invention will be more apparent from the following description.","Adhesively bonded steel structures include at least two steel components that are joined together using an adhesive, with or without an adhesive primer. Corrosion tends to work its way under adhesive primers and adhesives and hence cause adhesive failures of the structural components and assemblies at the steel bond line. If a corrosion resistant coating of metal or cermet were applied to the steel prior to adhesive bonding, the bond line would be protected from corrosion. Additionally, to allow for the electrical grounding of the structure for electromagnetic interference (EMI), electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), electromagnetic pulse (EMP) and lightening protection, it would be desirable to use an electrically conductive coating.","The adhesive can be selected from sealants or adhesives that are electrically conductive. Alternatively, or in addition, a conductive metallic gasket can be bonded into the joint. In other embodiments, depending on the conductivity required, it is possible to achieve electrical conductivity through the joint with non-conductive adhesive or sealant in the joint by applying high clamping forces which result in point metal to metal contact through the bonding adhesive or sealant. Properly positioned electrical bonding bolts or fasteners can also be used to provide the desired conductivity between the components.","In one embodiment, the invention relates to the application of a corrosion resistant electrically conductive coating applied by thermal spray technology on one or more steel components, prior to the application of an adhesive or adhesive primer. Then the coated components can be joined together using the adhesive to form an adhesively bonded joint or structure. Thermal spray technology encompasses a group of coating processes in which finely divided metallic or nonmetallic materials are deposited in a molten or semi-molten condition to form a coating. The coating material may be in the form of powder, ceramic-rod, wire, or molten materials. In various embodiments, the steel components can include AISI 4130, AISI 4140, AISI 1010, other low alloy steels, or high strength steels such as HSLA SAE grades, automotive steels, etc.","Referring to the drawings,  is schematic representation of a portion of an adhesively bonded structure  in accordance with an embodiment of the invention in which a first metallic component  is bonded to a second metallic component  by an adhesive material  positioned between a first surface  of the first metallic component, and a first surface  of the second metallic component. A first corrosion resistant conductive coating  is positioned on the first surface  of the first metallic component. A second corrosion resistant conductive coating  is positioned on the first surface  of the second metallic component. The adhesive material can be, for example, polyurethane, silicone, epoxy, acrylic, polysulfides, epoxy cured polythioether, thermoset materials, thermoplastic materials, or other materials having the desired mechanical and electrical properties. In one example, the adhesive can be Henkel Hysol\u00ae EA 9396 or similar epoxy paste adhesive with or without other coating materials that meet the requirements of Military Specification MIL-P-24441\/1B. The adhesive can be used in combination with bonding primers such as BLP Mobile Paints epoxy\/polyamide green primer F150 or International Paint Intergard 264 epoxy, as examples.","The corrosion resistant conductive coating can be applied by thermal spray technology on the steel, prior to the application of the adhesive. Thermal spray technology can be used to form a coating on both of the surfaces of the steel parts that are to be bonded. Examples of corrosion resistant coatings can be found in Sulzer Metco Thermal Spray Guide issued February 2006, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Coatings can be selected from the list of coatings presented in the guide that are more corrosion resistant than steel and\/or more noble than steel on the galvanic series. Thermal spray coatings with the proper surface preparations can range in tensile strengths from about 200 PSI to in excess of 10,000 PSI depending on the coating application process and coating selected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["30","32","34","36","38","40","42","38","44","40","46"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["50","52","54","56","58","60","62","58","64","60","66"]},"The corrosion resistant coating may be sealed, if desired, with an adhesive or sealant to enhance corrosion properties. In this example, an optional sealant  has been applied to the edges of the adhesively bonded joint between the first and second metallic component. The sealant can be, for example, polysulfide, urethane, silicone or other suitable sealant to block moisture and water from intruding into the joint. Again, the corrosion resistant conductive coating can be applied by thermal spray technology on the steel, prior to the application of an adhesive or adhesive primer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["70","72","74","76","78","80","82","78","84","82","86","80","88","86","84","88","82","86"]},"In other examples, the corrosion resistant coating can include fiberglass or Kevlar coated on the steel.","In various embodiments, the corrosion resistant conductive coating can be applied by plasma spray, combustion powder spray (Thermospray\u00ae), high Velocity Oxygen-Fuel Spray (HVOF), electric arc wire spray, combustion wire spray, ChamPro\u00ae (LVPS, LPPS and VPS), a detonation gun process, and\/or other similar processes or a combination of processes. Materials that can be applied using electric arc wire spray include Cu, Fe, Mb, Sn and Ti. In other embodiments, self fluxing alloys can be used. Self fluxing alloys can be applied by spraying and then fused with a torch. The preferred application technique and coating material is selected by considering the cost of the technique and coating, desired coating mechanical tensile or shear requirements, and the electrical conductivity of the alloy, ceramic or cermet.","Other processes can also be used to form the corrosion resistant coating, either independently or in conjunction with the thermal spray technology processes. Such other processes may include a brazing process, a flame spray or thermal spray process for the application of brazing alloys, brazing and\/or explosive cladding. Such processes can modify the steel surface for bonding and\/or provide a conductive coating that is corrosion resistant.","The corrosion resistant coating protects the steel from corrosion in a region adjacent to the bond line between the steel and the adhesive primer or adhesive. The coatings can be manufactured utilizing materials described in the Sulzer-Metco Thermal Spray Materials Guide issued February 2006 or similar materials.","The corrosion resistant coating material should be galvanically close to steel as defined in Military Specification MIL-STD-889. Preferred galvanically close materials are defined as materials that range between steel 1010 and titanium as listed in Table II of MIL-STD-889.","A high velocity oxy-fuel (HVOF) spraying process can be used to apply the conductive corrosion resistant coating, as corrosion resistant coatings produced by this process can have high adhesion strengths up to and exceeding 10,000 P.S.I. and are very dense, which protects the steel substrate from water and moisture. Examples of materials that can be applied using a high velocity oxy-fuel (HVOF) spraying process include alloys, ceramics, cermets listed on pages HVOF-1 thru HVOF-25 Sulzer-Metco Thermal Spray Materials Guide issued February 2006. The lower limit of 200 PSI is needed for the coating, however most coatings have higher tensile strength ranges. In some embodiments, the conductive corrosion resistant coating may include chromium carbide and nickel chromium alloys. The amount of nickel chromium and chromium carbide can be varied to optimize conductivity.","The corrosion resistant coating may be thermally sprayed, copper, titanium, stainless steel, molybdenum, Inconel\u00ae 625, Inconel\u00ae 618, Inconel\u00ae 718, Ni-Chrome\u00ae, age hardened nickel-based superalloys such as Rene\u00ae 80, nickel, nickel aluminide, Monel\u00ae, K-Monel\u00ae, AISI 316L, AISI 316, AISI 301, AISI 302, AISI 304, bronze, MP135N (a cobalt, chromium molybdenum based alloy), or other multi-phase alloys, cobalt, or cobalt alloys among other alloys. Other 300 series alloys include austenitic stainless steel, Carpenter alloys, Nickel-Copper Alloy 400, MP35N Alloy, Carpenter C-276 Alloy (UNS N10276), Custom Age 625 Plus\u00ae Alloy, L-605 Alloy, Type 409Cb Stainless, Type 430FR Solenoid Quality Stainless, Type 430F Stainless, Type 430 Stainless, Pyrowear\u00ae 675 Stainless, Pyromet\u00ae Alloy 718, Pyromet\u00ae Alloy 625, 20Mo-60 HS Stainless (UNS N08036), 20Mo-6\u00ae Stainless (UNS N08026), 15-15LC\u00ae Modified Stainless, Carpenter 22Cr-13Ni-5Mn Stainless (UNS S20910), Duplex Alloy 255 Carpenter Alloy 925 (UNS N09925), 25Ni-20Cr-6Mo Stainless (UNS N08925 N08926), Micro-Melt\u00ae CCW Alloy, BioBlu 27 Alloy, Micro-Melt\u00ae CCW Plus Alloy, Duplex Alloy 2205, Pyromet\u00ae Alloy 617, Nickel Alloy 211, Nickel Alloy 205, Ni-4Al Alloy, Nickel Alloy 206, and titanium alloys.","Thermally applied and brazed alloys can be used to produce a conductive corrosion resistant coating that is metallurgically bonded to the steel. Examples of suitable brazing alloys include Wall Colmonoy Corporation NICROBRAZ\u00ae Technical data sheet No. 2.1.1.","In another example, an explosive clad corrosion resistant alloy can be applied to the steel surface, prior to adhesive bonding. Explosively bonded dissimilar metals can act as an inhibitor to galvanic activity that would occur between mechanically fastened dissimilar metals. Maritime applications benefit from the use of explosively bonded metals by allowing for weldable transitions between dissimilar metals that also reduce or eliminate galvanic corrosion. Examples of suitable explosively clad materials include stainless steel, Inconel\u00ae, titanium and other more nobel than steel alloys that are capable of explosive bonding on to steel to produce a clad coating.","A cermet coating or a ceramic coating that is corrosion resistant can be used if a conductive path is either not required or can be established by other means. A cermet is a composite material including ceramic and metallic materials, and is designed to have the optimal properties of both a ceramic, such as high temperature resistance and hardness, and those of a metal, such as the ability to undergo plastic deformation. The metal is used as a binder for an oxide, boride, or carbide. Generally, the metallic elements used are nickel, molybdenum, and cobalt. Depending on the physical structure of the material, cermets can also be metal matrix composites.","Typical coatings such as zinc, aluminum, and combinations of zinc and aluminum alloys such as galvanize are normally used to protect the steel from pitting and general corrosion. These normally used anodic coatings will protect the steel from corrosion, however are not as useful for bonding applications. This is because moisture and or water can surprisingly migrate through a sealed organic coating, sealant or adhesive and start the corrosion mechanism on the surface of a bonded non-corrosion resistant steel structure. In testing of an adhesive bonding primer, it has been shown that moisture could penetrate the primer which is used as protection. Corrosion can begin on the steel surface under the coating even before the coating is attacked or appears to be degraded by moisture on the steel surface. The steel corrosion products can expand the bonded joint, which can result in failures of the bonded joint structure as corrosion progresses.","In one aspect, this invention addresses this problem by using protective coating materials that are more noble than steel. In the embodiments described above, a corrosion resistant coating is used to protect the bondline from degradation by corrosion. The described assemblies are suitable for use in corrosive environments, for example, where they might be exposed to sea water.","In other embodiments, the components to be bonded may include ferrous materials or other materials, such as aluminum, that are subject to corrosion. These embodiments would be similar to the embodiments of  with the steel replaced by such other materials.","Whereas particular embodiments of this invention have been described above for purposes of illustration, it will be evident to those skilled in the art that numerous variations of the details of the present invention may be made without departing from the invention as defined in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
