---
title: Fiber active path length synchronization
abstract: A method of implementing a high-power coherent laser beam combining system in which the output of a master oscillator laser having a linewidth broader than the Stimulated Brillouin Scattering linewidth of the laser signal is split into N signals and fed into an array of N optical fibers. This is a modification of the self-synchronous LOCSET and self-referenced LOCSET phase matching systems in which the optical path length of each optical fiber is matched to less than the signal coherence length of the master oscillator by using a path length matching signal processor to modulate temperature controlled segments of each optical fiber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08503070&OS=08503070&RS=08503070
owner: The United States of America as Represented by The Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08503070
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110524
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph 1(a) of Executive Order 10096, as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force, to the entire right, title and interest therein, including foreign rights.","The present invention relates generally to multiple element optical amplifier arrays used to achieve a high output power laser beam and in particular, to a system to enable coherent beam combination of laser amplifier arrays.","The intensity and, hence, the power available from a single-mode optical fiber is limited by either optical surface damage or nonlinear optical effects. The limitations to achieving a high power fiber laser system can be overcome by coherent beam combination of the output power from multiple, broader linewidth optical fiber amplifiers. In a master oscillator power amplifier (MOPA) configuration having multiple fiber amplifier legs, the optical path lengths of each of the amplifier legs have to be controlled to a tighter and tighter tolerance level as the linewidth of the source increases. In addition, fine control of the optical phase is required in order to enable coherent combination of the individual amplifier outputs into a single, high-power beam. As a result of time varying thermal loads and other disturbances, an active feedback system is required in order to provide for both coherent addition and rapid slewing of the final beam direction.","Two systems for electronic phase locking of optical arrays to achieve a high power beam is the subject of three patents by one of the present inventors (T. M. Shay, \u201cSelf-referenced Locking of Optical Coherence by Single-detector Electronic-frequency Tagging,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 7,187,492 B1, T. M. Shay, \u201cSelf-Synchronous Locking of Optical Coherence by Single-detector Electronic-frequency Tagging,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 7,058,098 B1, and T. M. Shay, \u201cSelf-referenced Locking of Optical Coherence by Single-detector Electronic-frequency Tagging,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 7,233,433 B1). These patents are hereby incorporated by reference.","The Self-Synchronous Locking of Optical Coherence by Single-detector Electronic-frequency Tagging (Self-Synchronous LOCSET) system (U.S. Pat. No. 7,058,098 B1) provides a simple and robust method that needs only a single detector and has no reference leg. The phase errors between the individual array elements self adjust so that the mean phase error is zero, thereby maximizing the power in the central lobe. The Self-Referenced LOCSET system is also a simple and robust method that needs only a single detector, but has one reference leg. The phase-modulated (slave) array elements are adjusted to track the phase of the unmodulated (reference) element. Both embodiments of LOCSET can easily be scaled to large numbers of array elements because the scaling is done in the electronic instead of the spatial domain. This technology is applicable to general systems of laser amplifiers, i.e., semiconductor, bulk solid state, gas, dye, as well as fiber amplifiers.","Self-Synchronous LOCSET","In the Self-Synchronous LOCSET system, the phases of the individual array elements self-adjust so that the mean array phase error is zero. A block diagram of the Self-Synchronous LOCSET is shown in . The diagram begins with a master oscillator . There may or may not be an optical amplifier incorporated in the master oscillator laser. The output power from the master oscillator is divided by a 1\u00d7N power splitter . Each of the N output signals from the 1\u00d7N power splitter  are then directed to N optical modulators  where each of the N signals is phase modulated by a unique electronic frequency. The modulation frequencies must be selected so that beat notes of the N elements can be uniquely isolated. The errors signals for each of the N elements are fed to N phase adjusters  and then to optical amplifiers . The optical modulators  and the optical phase adjusting elements  can be separate devices, or they may be single devices that perform both tasks. The outputs from the optical amplifiers  are then directed to the array output optics . The relative position of the optical amplifiers , the optical modulators , and the phase adjusters  are in principle arbitrary. However, practical details such as power handling capability of individual elements, system noise characteristics, or even reduction of the modulation effectiveness by succeeding elements may lead to a preferred sequence of optical elements.","Next, the N amplified outputs are optically co-aligned in the alignment optics  and the output is directed to the beam sampler . In the case where the output array optics  contains a beam combiner, the output may be a single beam. In a variation of this embodiment, the beams may be sampled before the alignment optics. In that case the beam sampler  may precede the co-alignment optics . While the majority of the power passes through the beam splitter  and constitutes the array output , a small fraction of the array output is directed to the far field imaging optics  and then on to the photodetector . The imaging system  is used to image a far-field central spot onto the photodetector  that fills or overfills the active area of the photodetector . The signal-to-noise ratio for a given optical power in the sampled beam is optimized when only the central lobe of the far field is imaged onto the photodetector. However, this is not a necessary condition for achieving accurate phase control. Excellent phase locking can be achieved when the central lobe overfills or underfills the photodetector active area. It is only necessary that there be a sufficient signal-to-noise ratio for phase locking.","The electrical signals from the photodetector  are signal processed  to isolate and extract the optical phase control signals for each array element, and the optical phase control signals are then applied to the phase adjusting elements  using negative feedback to cancel the phase difference between the array elements. Optimum performance is obtained when the array elements are all traveling in the same direction with the same divergence. However, the optimum condition is not required for excellent phase control to be demonstrated.","The output power of a narrow linewidth fiber amplifier is limited by Stimulated Brillouin Scattering (SBS). The SBS threshold is currently the limiting nonlinear process in single frequency fiber amplifiers. A simple way to mitigate Stimulated Brillouin Scattering and increase the power available from a single fiber amplifier is to broaden the master oscillator linewidth beyond the SBS line width. While this is an effective technique for mitigating SBS it presents problems for active coherent beam combination since the coherence length is inversely proportional to the linewidth and decreases as the linewidth increases.","The output power of an amplifier system using Self-Synchronous LOCSET for phase locking may, therefore, be enhanced if the master oscillator linewidth is broadened beyond the Stimulated Brillouin Scattering (SBS) linewidth. This allows the output powers of the individual fiber amplifier legs to be increased with a consequent, increase in the total output power of the fiber laser system. However, the optical path length of each amplifier chain must then be matched to within the coherence length of the master oscillator. The enhancement of LOCSET to enable simultaneous optical phase and path length matching is a subject of the present invention. The invention may also be used to path length match and phase lock passive optical systems and to measure path length differences in broad line interferometric applications, such as optical coherence tomography.","Self-Referenced LOCSET","In the Self-referenced LOCSET system (U.S. Pat. No. 7,187,492 B1 and U.S. Pat. No. 7,233,433 B1), one signal is designated a reference signal while the M=N\u22121 remaining (slave) signals are optically phase adjusted relative to the reference. A diagram of this system is shown in . The diagram begins with a master oscillator . There may or may not be an optical amplifier incorporated in the master oscillator laser. The output power from the master oscillator is divided by a 1\u00d7N power splitter . The M output slave signals from the 1\u00d7N power splitter  are then directed to M optical modulators  where each of the M signals is modulated by a unique electronic frequency. The remaining reference signal from the 1\u00d7N power splitter  is also sent through an optional optical modulator  and is designated the reference signal. The modulation frequencies must be selected so that beat notes between the reference and the other M slave elements can be uniquely isolated. The M slave signals are fed to M phase adjusters  and then to optical amplifiers . The reference signal proceeds directly from the 1\u00d7N power splitter  through an optical modulator  which may not be present to an optical amplifier . The optical modulators  and the optical phase adjusting elements  can be separate devices, or they may be single devices that perform both tasks. The outputs from the optical amplifiers  are then directed to the array output optics . The relative positions of the optical amplifiers , the optical modulators , and the phase adjusters  on the slave legs are in principle arbitrary. The relative positions of the optical amplifier  and the optical modulator , if it exists, on the reference leg are also arbitrary. However, for both the slave and reference legs, practical details such as power handling capability of the individual elements, system noise characteristics, or even reduction of the modulation effectiveness by succeeding elements may lead to a preferred sequence of optical elements.","Next the N amplified outputs are optically co-aligned in the alignment optics  and the output is directed to the beam sampler . In the case where the output array optics  contains a beam combiner, the output may be a single beam. In a variation of this embodiment, the beams may be sampled before the alignment optics. In that case the beam sampler  may precede the co-alignment optics . While the majority of the power passes through the beam splitter  and constitutes the array output , a small fraction of the array output is directed to the far field imaging optics  and then on to the photodetector . The imaging system  is used to image a far-field central spot onto the photodetector  that fills or overfills the active area of the photodetector . The signal-to-noise ratio for a given optical power in the sampled beam is optimized when only the central lobe of the far field is imaged onto the photodetector. However, this is not a necessary condition for achieving accurate phase control. Excellent phase locking can be achieved when the central lobe overfills or underfills the photodetector active area. It is only necessary that there be a sufficient signal-to-noise ratio for phase locking.","The electrical signals from the photodetector  are signal processed  to isolate and extract the optical phase control error signals for each array (slave) element, and the optical phase control signals are then applied to the phase adjusting elements  using negative feedback to cancel the phase difference between the array (slave) elements and the reference element. Optimum performance is obtained when the array elements are all traveling in the same direction with the same divergence. However, the optimum condition is not required for excellent phase control to be demonstrated.","The output power of an amplifier system using the Self-Referenced LOCSET phase-locking system may also be enhanced if the master oscillator linewidth is broadened beyond the Stimulated Brillouin Scattering (SBS) linewidth. Because the output powers of the individual fiber amplifier legs are increased due to a higher threshold for Stimulated Brillouin Scattering, the total output power of the overall fiber amplifier system will be increased. Again, the optical path length of each amplifier chain must then be matched to within the coherence length of the master oscillator. This enhancement is also a subject of the present invention.","Recently, Goodno et al Optics Letters, Vol. 35, No. 10, pp. 1542-1544, 2010 demonstrated an actively phase-locked coherent beam combining system emitting 1.43 kW of single-mode power when seeded with a 25 GHz linewidth master oscillator. However, efficient beam combination required that the optical path lengths be matched to within 1-mm. To achieve this path length matching mechanical optical trombones were used. However, mechanical optical trombones are devices that are vibration sensitive and therefore require very rigid and expensive vibration isolation systems. Mechanical sensitivity may make these systems unsuitable for many potential applications. An alternative method for matching the optical fiber path lengths is to splice additional fiber onto the fiber system to match the optical paths. While this sounds straight forward it is difficult to do with current fiber fusing technology because the fiber length added can generally be controlled only to an accuracy of a few centimeters due to uncertainty in the quality of the fiber cleaving and fusing processes. Thus this approach is not suitable for path length matching of a large number of broad linewidth optical fibers since the optical paths must be matched to within less than the coherence length which may be quite small.","Another approach is to utilize the fiber coupled optical trombone described by Yao in U.S. Pat. No. 7,534,990 B2 to obtain path length matching. An additional technique for optical path length matching is to utilize a piezoelectric fiber stretcher to bring about small changes in the path length of the optical fiber. (See Yao et al, U.S. Pat. No. 5,723,856, Yao et al, U.S. Pat. No. 5,929,430, Ichenko et al, U.S. Pat. No. 7,187,870 B2, and Sayyah U.S. Pat. No. 7,324,256 B1.) However, these devices have two problems, first they are microphonic as well as vibration sensitive and second their dynamic range is generally limited to small changes in the path length.","As mentioned above, broader linewidth lasers can effectively mitigate SBS, thus eliminating the major effect that limits the output power of beam combinable fiber lasers. This, however, incurs the added penalty of requiring accurate path length matching systems. Because vibration sensitivity is an issue for some applications, some forms of path length matching will be unsuitable. Because the present invention is an all-fiber system that doesn't contain any mechanical devices or free space optics, excellent performance is expected in an environment where vibrations are present. Finally, it is generally assumed that unless all of the path lengths are matched, the control loop will not operate. While this is generally true, the present invention circumvents this by utilizing a technique that separates out the control loop signal for each array element, i.e., the incoherence induced by any array element beams that are not path length matched will not interfere with the phase locking of those that are path length matched.","The power available from a single-mode optical fiber is limited by either optical surface damage or nonlinear optical effects. The primary limitation on the output power of a narrow linewidth optical fiber is the nonlinear optical effect of Stimulated Brillouin Scattering (SBS).","One way to mitigate SBS and thereby increase the power available is to broaden the master oscillator linewidth beyond the SBS linewidth increasing the SBS threshold. Coherent beam combination of the output power from multiple optical fibers has been one way to obtain an output power from a system greater than that obtainable from an individual fiber. In this method, a single master oscillator seeds an array of power amplifiers whose outputs are locked in phase using active feedback. However broadening the linewidth of the master oscillator to further increase the output power of each optical fiber necessitates highly accurate path length matching. The present invention embodies a novel, all-fiber, method for path length matching where feedback to a temperature controlled segment of optical fiber within each amplifier leg is used to increase or decrease the fiber path length. Accurate path length matching between the amplifiers is thereby enabled.","Self-Synchronous LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement In the embodiment for Self-Synchronous LOCSET with the fiber path length matching improvement, N fiber amplifier legs are adjusted for both optical phase and path length matching. A block diagram for this embodiment of the present invention is shown in . The first device in the diagram is a master oscillator laser  having a linewidth greater than the SBS linewidth. The output power from the master oscillator is divided by a 1\u00d7N power splitter . Each of the N output signals from the 1\u00d7N power splitter  are then directed to N temperature controlled spools of passive optical fiber  where the temperature of each of the N fiber spools is adjusted to match the optical path length of the array elements. Each of the N output signals from the N temperature controlled spools of passive optical fiber  are then directed to N optical modulators  where each of the N signals is modulated by a unique electronic frequency. The modulation frequencies must be selected so that beat notes between the N optical signals can be uniquely isolated. The N signals are then fed to N phase adjusters  and then to optical amplifiers  which are optional. The optical modulators  and the optical phase adjusting elements  can be separate devices, or they may be single devices that perform both tasks. The outputs from the optional optical amplifiers  are then directed to the array output optics . The relative position of the optional optical amplifiers , the optical modulators , the phase adjusters , and the temperature controlled spools of passive optical fiber  are in principle arbitrary. However, practical details such as power handling capability of individual elements, system noise characteristics, or even reduction of the modulation effectiveness by succeeding elements or thermal loading may lead to a preferred sequence of optical elements.","Next the N amplified outputs are either optically co-aligned or combined in the combiner\/alignment optics  and, the output is directed to the beam sampler . In the case where the output array optics  contains a beam combiner, the output may be a single beam. In a variation of this embodiment, the beams may be sampled before the alignment optics. In that case the beam sampler  may precede the co-alignment optics . While the majority of the power passes through the beam splitter  and constitutes the array output , a small fraction of the array output is directed to the far field imaging optics  and then on to the photodetector . The imaging system  is used to image a far-field central spot onto the photodetector  that fills or overfills the active area of the photodetector . The signal-to-noise ratio for a given optical power in the sampled beam is optimized when only the central lobe of the far field is imaged onto the photodetector. However, this is not a necessary condition for achieving accurate phase control or path length matching. Excellent phase locking and path length matching can be achieved when the central lobe overfills or underfills the photodetector active area. It is only necessary that there be a sufficient signal-to-noise ratio for phase locking and path length matching.","The electrical signals from the photodetector  are signal processed  to isolate and extract the optical phase control signals for each array element, and the optical phase control signals are then applied to the phase adjusting elements  to cancel the phase differences between the array elements. Optimum performance is obtained when the array elements are all traveling in the same direction with the same divergence. However, the optimum condition is not required for excellent phase control to be demonstrated. The signal from the photodetector  is also sent to the path length matching signal processor  which sends the path length matching control signal to the temperature controlled fiber spools  to enable path length matching relative to an array mean.","The theoretical basis for self-synchronous LOCSET signal processing  has been described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,058,098 B1.","A method for matching the path lengths of N fibers is next described for the Self-Synchronous LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement. The method uses electronic feedback control of the optical path lengths in N fibers to provide continuous optical path length adjustments over a wide range of path length differences with high accuracy so that efficient path length matching and phase locking can be achieved. To achieve good phase locking, the optical path length differences between the amplifier legs must be much less than the coherence length of the master oscillator. In the present invention, the path lengths of the individual fibers are matched relative to an array mean using feedback to temperature-controlled segments of passive fiber in each of the amplifier legs. The feedback system changes the optical path lengths by adjusting the temperature of the passive fiber in each optical amplifier legs to enable the path length to increase or decrease.","For all embodiments of LOCSET with the fiber path length matching improvement described in this patent, a temperature controlled fiber segment has a dynamic range, \u0394L, equal to the product of the length of the temperature controlled segment, L, times the coefficient for change in the optical path length versus temperature for the fiber, \u03b1, times the maximum temperature swing for the controlled fiber, \u0394T, that is,\n\n\u0394\u00b7\u03b1\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nAlso, for all embodiments of LOCSET with the fiber path length matching improvement described in this patent, the required temperature control resolution, is given by\n\n\u03b4\/(\u00b7\u03b1)\u2003\u2003(2)\n\nwhere \u03b4Lis L the minimum tolerance path length matching with Land \u03b1being defined as before. As the linewidth broadens and the coherence length decreases, \u03b4Lalso decreases. As a result, the required temperature control resolution, \u03b4T, becomes more and more stringent since fluctuations in temperature directly lead to fluctuations in the optical path length which could lead to incoherence. That is, as the coherence length decreases, \u03b4Talso decreases.\n","In all embodiments of LOCSET with the fiber path length matching improvement described in this patent, the first harmonic term is utilized to carry the optical phase lock errors while the path length matching system uses a multiple (even or odd) of the first harmonic to carry the path length matching error signals. When an even harmonic is used, any appropriate hill-climbing algorithm or other maximum-seeking system can be utilized and path length matching is optimized when the error signals are maximized. When an odd harmonic is utilized, path length matching is optimized when the error signals are minimized. For all embodiments, the path length matching control loop must not interfere with the phase locking control loop so that the phase locking and the path length matching error signals are independent of each other. Utilization of a multiple (even or odd) of the first harmonic results in a simplification of the system since the same single frequency sine wave signal can be leveraged to control both the optical phase and the path length. Finally, instability as well as strength of signal issues may limit which harmonics can be used for path length matching. To conclude, this method makes it possible to automatically and actively compensate for dynamic changes in the optical path length as long as they don't happen faster than the control loop response time.","In all embodiments of LOCSET with the fiber path length matching improvement utilizing an even harmonic for path length matching, path length matching is optimized for the lelement when the following signal is maximized:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["S","PLM_l"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"\u03c4"},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mn":"0","msub":{"mi":["\u03c4","p"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["n","even"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"t"}}},{"msub":{"mi":["i","PD"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sup":"th "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["S","PLM_l"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"\u03c4"},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mn":"0","msub":{"mi":["\u03c4","p"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["n","odd"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"t"}}},{"msub":{"mi":["i","PD"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"t"}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["even ","odd ","l ","p ","D"],"sup":"th "},"For both harmonics, \u03c4should be longer than the thermal response time of the temperature controlled fiber and shorter than the time scale of optical path length fluctuations large enough to reduce coherent combination efficiency. All embodiments of LOCSET with fiber path length matching improvement must be implemented in conjunction with the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,187,492 B1, 7,058,098 B1, and 7,233,433 B1.","For N modulated elements, the photocurrent for the self-synchronous case is given by:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["i","PD"],"mrow":{"mi":["Self","synchronous"],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","PD"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"l","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","l"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":["j","l"],"mo":"\u2260"}}}]},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","j"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mo":["[","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":"{","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mo":"(","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mrow":[{"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mo":"\u2211"},{"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"}],"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["n","l"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]}],"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}},{"mo":["(","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["n","j"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]}],"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]},"mi":"t"}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["n","j"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]}],"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"]}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mn":"2"}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mo":"{","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mo":"(","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Cos","mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["n","l"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"t"}}}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(","}"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}],"mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}},"mo":["-","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]},"mo":["\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mi":"t"}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}},{"mo":"{","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"Cos","mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]}],"mo":["-","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}],"mn":"2"},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}],"mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},{"mi":"Sin","mo":["(","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":"(","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u2062","\u2062","\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}],"mrow":[{"mo":["\u2003","\u2062",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":["-","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mo":["\u00b7","\u2062","\u2062","\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]},"mi":"t"},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},{"mo":["(","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u00b7"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}],"mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},{"mo":["\u2003","\u2062","]"],"mrow":{"mo":["\u2003","\u2062","}"],"mrow":{"mo":["\u2003","\u2062",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Sin","mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}},"mo":["-","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mo":["\u00b7","\u2062","\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]},"mi":"t"}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}}}}]}}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u00b7"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}}],"mo":["+","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":["+","\u2062","-"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["PD ","l ","j ","l ","j ","l ","j ","l ","j ","m"],"sup":["th ","th ","th ","th ","th ","th ","th ","th "]},"If \u03c4>>2\u03c0\/\u03c9and \u03c4>>2\u03c0\/|(\u03c9\u2212\u03c9)| a for all l and j when j\u22601, then the path length error signal for the larray element for even orders of the path length modulation frequency is to an excellent approximation given by,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["S","even"],"mrow":{"mi":["PLM","_","l"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","PD"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","l"]}},"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":["n","even"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","j"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["l ","j"],"sup":"th "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["S","odd"],"mrow":{"mi":["PLM","_","l"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","PD"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","l"]}},"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":["n","odd"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","j"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["l ","j"]},"When the path length matching control loop is turned on, the temperature of the path length matching fiber may need to be scanned while the phase locking (LOCSET) loop is operating so that the path length differences are within the control loop pull in range. In principal, path length matching and coherence amongst the various fiber amplifier legs needs to occur before optical phase matching can be accomplished. However, once the path lengths are partially matched, the phase locking control loop will automatically pull in the path length matching providing that the response time of the phase lock control loop is much faster than the path length matching control loop. When both the optical phase and path length matching control loops are operating and the path lengths are matched to within the coherence length, the path length matching control loop will compensate for the slower, macroscopic, changes in phase while the optical phase control loop will compensate for the more rapid, microscopic, changes in phase. This pertains to all embodiments of LOCSET with the fiber path length matching improvement.","In , a block diagram for the optical phase and path length matching control loops for the larray element in the Self-Synchronous LOCSET system are illustrated. The output of photodetector  is sent to the RF amplifier . This signal is split and is sent to a mixer  associated with the optical phase matching loop and a mixer  associated with the path length matching loop. The RF oscillator signal  for the larray element, \u03c9, is split 3 ways, first to the electronic phase adjustor  for optical phase matching, next to the mixer  associated with the optical phase matching control loop, and finally to a RF harmonic generator  which is associated with the path length matching loop. Note, if the first harmonic is used for both optical phase and path length matching, the RF harmonic generator  is not necessary. The output of the mixer  associated with the optical phase matching loop is sent to phase locking signal processing electronics . Outputs from both the phase locking signal processing electronics  and the electronic phase adjustor  are then sent to a bias tee  whose output is injected into a phase modulator  for the larray element which contributes to driving the optical phase differences between the lelement and the other array elements to zero. For the path length matching loop, the signal from the RF harmonic generator  is then sent to an electronic phase adjustor . The signals from the electronic phase adjustors  and  accounts for electronic phase errors induced by differing lengths of the RF cables. The electronic phase adjustors  and  can be replaced by fixed cable lengths or phase delays. The signal from the electronic phase adjustor is then directed into the path length matching mixer  with the output of the mixer being injected into the signal processing electronics for path length matching . The output signal from the path length matching signal processing electronics  is then injected into an amplifier  whose output controls the larray element's temperature controlled spool  ( of ). The temperature of the larray element's temperature controlled spool  is adjusted to match the larray element's path length to a mean array path length. The signal processing circuit for the path length matching control loop maximizes, S, for each of the N array elements independently for even harmonics and minimizes, S, for each of the N array elements independently for odd harmonics. The path length matching and the optical phase matching components are independent of each other.","Self-Referenced LOCSET System with the Fiber Path Length Matching Improvement","In the embodiment for the Self-Referenced LOCSET system with fiber path length matching improvement, M=N\u22121 phase modulated fiber amplifier slave legs are adjusted for both optical phase and path length matching relative to a reference leg. A block diagram of the present invention for the Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement is shown in . The first device in the diagram is a master oscillator laser  having a linewidth greater than the SBS linewidth. The output power from the master oscillator is divided by a 1\u00d7N power splitter . M output signals (slave legs) from the 1\u00d7N power splitter  are then directed to M temperature controlled spools of passive optical fiber . One output signal  from the 1\u00d7N power splitter (reference leg) is directed to a similar spool of passive optical fiber  that is not adjusted. The temperatures of each of the M fiber spools are adjusted to match the optical paths of each of the M array elements to that of the reference leg. Each of the M output signals from the M temperature controlled spools of passive optical fiber  are then directed to M optical modulators  where each of the M signals is modulated by a unique RF frequency. The modulation frequencies must be selected so that beat notes between the reference and the other M optical signals can be uniquely isolated. The M signals are then directed to M phase adjusters  and then to optical amplifiers  which are optional. The optical modulators  and the optical phase adjusting elements  can be separate devices, or they may be single devices that perform both tasks. Output of the reference leg signal from the unadjusted spool of passive fiber  is injected directly into an optical amplifier  which is optional. The N outputs from the optional optical amplifiers  are then directed to the array output optics . The relative position of the optional optical amplifiers , optical modulators , phase adjusters  and the temperature controlled spools of passive optical fiber  are in principle arbitrary. Similarly, the order of the optional optical amplifier  and the unadjusted spool of passive optical fiber  on the reference leg is also arbitrary. However, practical details such as power handling capability of individual elements, system noise characteristics, or even reduction of the modulation effectiveness by succeeding elements or thermal loading may lead to a preferred sequence of optical elements.","The N amplified outputs are either optically co-aligned or combined in the combiner\/alignment optics  and the output is directed to the beam sampler . In a variation of this embodiment, the beams may be sampled before the alignment optics. In that case the beam sampler  may precede the co-alignment optics . In the case where the array output optics  includes a beam combiner the output may be a single beam. While the majority of the power passes through the beam splitter  and constitutes the array output , a small fraction of the array output is directed to the far field imaging optics  and then on to the photodetector . The imaging system  is used to image a far-field central spot onto the photodetector  that fills or overfills the active area of the photodetector . The signal-to-noise ratio for a given optical power in the sampled beam is optimized when only the central lobe of the far field is imaged onto the photodetector. However, this is not a necessary condition for achieving accurate phase control or path length matching. Excellent phase locking and path length matching can be achieved when the central lobe overfills or underfills the photodetector active area. It is only necessary that there be a sufficient signal-to-noise ratio for phase locking and path length matching.","The electrical signals from the photodetector  are signal processed  to isolate and extract the optical phase control signals for each of the M adjusted array elements. The optical phase control signals are then applied to the phase adjusting elements  to cancel the optical phase differences between the M array elements (slave legs) and the reference leg. Optimum performance is obtained when the array elements are all traveling in the same direction with the same divergence. However, the optimum condition is not required for excellent phase control to be demonstrated. The signal from the photodetector  is also sent to the path length matching signal processor  which sends the path length matching control signal to the temperature controlled fiber spools  to enable path length matching of the M slave legs to that of the reference leg. To conclude, the M slave amplifier legs are adjusted for optical phase and path length matching relative to the reference amplifier leg.","The theoretical basis for the phase locking signal processing  has been described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,187,492 B1 and 7,233,433 B1.","A method for matching the path lengths of multiple fibers is described for the Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement, a coherent beam combining system used to achieve a high-power laser beam. The method uses electronic feedback control of the optical path lengths in N\u22121 fibers to provide continuous optical path length adjustments over a wide range of path length differences with high accuracy so that efficient path length matching and phase locking can be achieved. In this embodiment, the path length and optical phase of the reference leg is unadjusted. To achieve good phase locking, the optical path length differences between the amplifier legs must be much less than the coherence length. In the present invention, the path lengths of individual fibers are matched relative to the path length of the reference leg using feedback to temperature-controlled fiber segments in N\u22121 amplifier legs in the array. The optical path lengths are changed by adjusting the temperature of a spool of passive optical fiber in each amplifier leg to enable expansion and contraction of the path length.","For N\u22121 modulated amplifier legs plus one unmodulated reference leg, the photocurrent for the self-reference LOCSET case is given by:\n\n\u2003\u2003(8)\n\nwhere:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"PD","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["R","PD"]},{"mi":["P","u"]}],"mo":"\u00b7"},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"PD","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["R","PD"]},"mo":"\u00b7","msqrt":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["P","u"]},"mo":"\u00b7"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msqrt":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["P","j"]},"mo":"\u00b7"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","u"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["n","j"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]}],"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}}},{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","u"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]},"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"+"}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"PD","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"3"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","PD"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"l","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","l"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":["j","l"],"mo":"\u2260"}}}]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","j"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mo":["[","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mo":"{","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["n","l"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]}],"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}],"mo":"+"}},{"mo":["(","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["n","j"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]}],"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},{"mo":"{","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"Sin","mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]},"mi":"t"}},{"mo":["(","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["n","j"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]}],"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"},{"mo":"{","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mo":"(","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["\u2003","\u2062",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mi":"Cos","mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":[{"mi":["n","l"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]}],"mi":"t"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},{"mo":["\u2003","}"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}],"mo":["(","\u2062",")"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}}},{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]},"mi":"t"}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"},{"mo":"{","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mo":"\u2003","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","j"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mi":"Sin","mo":["(","\u2062","]"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.em","height":"0.ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mrow":{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","j"]},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","j"]},"mi":"t"}},{"mo":["(","}"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["n","l"]},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mo":["\u2003",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u00b7","msub":{"mi":["n","l"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","l"]},"mi":"t"}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}],"mo":["+","+"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}],"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}],"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"In the above equations, Rrepresents the photodetector responsivity, N\u22121 represents the number of modulated array elements, \u03c9and \u03c9represents the RF modulation frequencies of the land jelements, \u03c6and \u03c6represent the optical phases of the modulated land jarray elements, \u03c6, represents the optical phase of the unmodulated array element, Pand Prepresent the power from the land jmodulated array elements that are incident upon the photodetector, Prepresents the power from the unmodulated array element that is incident upon the photodetector, \u03b2and \u03b2represent the phase modulation amplitudes of the land jarray elements, and J(\u03b2) represents a Bessel Function of the first kind of order m.","If \u03c4>>2\u03c9and \u03c4>>2\u03c0\/|(\u03c9\u2212\u03c9)| for all l and j when j\u2260l then the path length error signal for the larray element for an even harmonic is to an excellent approximation given by,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["S","PLM_l","even"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","PD"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","l"]}},"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":["n","even"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","j"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}},"mo":"+"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["p","u"]}},"mrow":{"mi":"Cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","u"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}]}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sup":"th "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["S","odd"],"mrow":{"mi":["PLM_","l"],"mo":"\u2062"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","PD"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","l"]}},"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","msub":{"mi":["n","odd"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","l"]}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"J","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","j"]}}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["P","j"]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","j"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}],"mo":"\u00b7"}},"mo":"+"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"msqrt":{"msub":{"mi":["p","u"]}},"mrow":{"mi":"Sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03d5","l"]},{"mi":["\u03d5","u"]}],"mo":"-"}}}}}}]}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"In  a block diagram for the phase and path length matching control loops for the larray element in the Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement are illustrated. The output of the photodetector  is sent to the RF amplifier . This signal is split and is sent to a mixer  associated with the optical phase matching loop and a mixer  associated with the path length matching loop. The RF oscillator signal  for the larray element \u03c9is split 3 ways, first to the electronic phase adjustor  for optical phase matching, next to the mixer  associated with the optical phase matching loop, and finally to a RF harmonic generator  which is associated with the path length matching loop. If the first harmonic is used both for optical phase and path length matching, the RF harmonic generator  can be absent. The output of the mixer  associated with the optical phase matching loop is sent to phase locking signal processing electronics . Outputs from both the phase locking signal processing electronics  and the electronic phase adjustor  are then sent to a bias tee  which feeds a phase modulator  for the larray element that enables optical phase matching of the larray element to the reference leg. For the path length matching loop, the signal from the RF harmonic generator  is then sent to an electronic phase adjustor . Signals from the electronic phase adjustors  and  accounts for electronic phase errors induced by differing lengths of the RF cables. The electronic phase adjustors  and  can be replaced by fixed cable lengths or phase delays. The signal from the electronic phase adjustor is then directed into the path length matching mixer  with the output of the mixer feeding the signal processing electronics for path length matching . The output signal from the path length matching signal processing electronics  then enters an amplifier  prior to being injected into the larray element temperature controlled spool  ( of ). The larray element's temperature controlled spool  is adjusted to match the larray element's path length to the path length of the reference leg. For the Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement, N\u22121 fiber amplifier legs are optically phase and path length matched to the reference leg. The signal processing circuit for the path length matching control loop maximizes, S, for each of the N\u22121 adjusted array elements independently for even harmonics and minimizes Sfor odd harmonics. The path length matching and the optical phase matching components are independent of each other.","Hybrid Self-Synchronous Self-Referenced LOCSET System with Fiber Path Length Matching Improvement","In the Hybrid Self-Synchronous Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement, N fiber amplifier legs are adjusted for optical phase matching while only N\u22121 fiber amplifier legs are adjusted for path length matching. Since all amplifier legs are equivalent, the amplifier leg chosen to be the reference (and unadjusted) for path length matching is immaterial. A block diagram of the present invention for the Hybrid Self-Synchronous Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement is shown in . The first device in the diagram is a master oscillator laser  having a linewidth greater than the SBS linewidth. The output power from the master oscillator is divided by a 1\u00d7N power splitter . M=N\u22121 slave signals from the 1\u00d7N power splitter  are then directed to M temperature controlled spools of passive fiber . One output signal (reference) from the 1\u00d7N power splitter is directed to a similar spool of fiber  that is not temperature adjusted. The temperature of each of the M temperature controlled spools is adjusted to match the optical path lengths of the slave array elements to that of the reference. Each of the M output signals from the M temperature controlled fiber spools  are then directed to M optical modulators  where each of the M signals is modulated by a unique electronic frequency. The M signals are fed to M phase adjusters  and then to optical amplifiers  which are optional. The output from the unmodulated spool of fiber  is also directed to an optical modulator  and a phase adjuster  before being directed to an optional optical amplifier . The modulation frequencies must be selected so that beat notes between the N optical signals can be uniquely isolated. The optical modulators  and the optical phase adjusting elements  can be separate devices, or they may be single devices that perform both tasks. The N outputs from the optional optical amplifiers  are then directed to the array output optics . The relative positions of the optical amplifiers , the optical modulators , the phase adjusters  and the temperature controlled spools  (or the non-temperature controlled spool ) are in principle arbitrary. However, practical details such as power handling capability of individual elements, system noise characteristics, or even reduction of the modulation effectiveness by succeeding elements or thermal loading may lead to a preferred sequence of optical elements.","The N amplified outputs are either optically co-aligned or combined in the combiner\/alignment optics  and the output is directed to the beam sampler . In a variation of this embodiment, the beams may be sampled before the alignment optics. In this case the beam sampler  may precede the co-alignment optics . In the case where the array output optics  includes a beam combiner the output may be a single beam. While the majority of the power passes through the beam splitter  and constitutes the array output , a small fraction of the array output is directed to the far field imaging optics  and then on to the photodetector . The imaging system  is used to image a far-field central spot onto the photodetector  that fills or overfills the active area of the photodetector . The signal-to-noise ratio for a given optical power in the sampled beam is optimized when only the central lobe of the far field is imaged onto the photodetector. However, this is not a necessary condition for achieving accurate phase control or path length matching. Excellent phase locking and path length matching can be achieved when the central lobe overfills or underfills the photodetector active area. It is only necessary that there be a sufficient signal-to-noise ratio for phase locking and path length matching.","The electrical signals from the photodetector  are signal processed  to isolate and extract the optical phase control signals for each array element, and the optical phase control signals are then applied to the phase adjusting elements  for N array elements to cancel the phase differences between the array elements. Optimum performance is obtained when the array elements are all traveling in the same direction with the same divergence. However, the optimum condition is not required for excellent phase control to be demonstrated. The signal from the photodetector  is also sent to the path length matching signal processor  which sends the path length matching control signal to the temperature controlled fiber spools  for the M slave elements. The path lengths of the M slave array elements are matched to the path length of the reference leg.","The theoretical basis for the phase locking signal processing  has been described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,058,098 B1.","A method for matching the path lengths of multiple fibers is next described for the Hybrid Self-Synchronous Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement, a coherent beam combining system used to achieve a high-power laser beam. The method uses electronic feedback control of the optical phase in N fibers in the Self-Synchronous configuration and the optical path lengths in N\u22121 fibers in a Self-Referenced configuration to provide continuous optical path length adjustments over a wide range of path length differences with high accuracy so that efficient path length matching and phase locking can be achieved. To achieve good phase locking the optical path length differences between the amplifier legs must be much less than the coherence length. In the present invention, the path lengths of N\u22121 slave fibers are matched relative to the path length of a reference leg via feedback which enables expansion and contraction of passive fiber on temperature controlled spools in the slave legs.","In the Hybrid Self-Synchronous Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement embodiment, the optical phases are adjusted on N amplifier legs while the optical path lengths are adjusted on only N\u22121 amplifier legs. The process is governed by the equations describing Self-Synchronous LOCSET, equations 3-7. In this embodiment, the electronics strive to drive the optical phase differences between N amplifier legs to zero. For path length matching, the electronics strive to minimize the path length differences between the temperature adjusted slave legs and the reference leg. Because temperature is not adjusted on the reference leg and therefore the path length of that leg is not corrected, the amount of pull-in of the adjusted slave legs toward the reference (unadjusted) leg by the electronics is strengthened since the difference \u03c6\u2212\u03c6(\u03c6represents the phase of an adjusted leg and \u03c6represents the phase of the reference leg) is greater than it otherwise would be if \u03c6were adjusted for path length matching.","In , a block diagram of a non-reference leg for path length matching purposes, i.e., where both the optical phase and path length are adjusted, in the Hybrid Self-Synchronous Self-Referenced LOCSET system with the fiber path length matching improvement is illustrated. For amplifier legs where both the optical phase and the path length are adjusted, the output of photodetector  is sent to the RF amplifier . This signal is split and is sent to a mixer  associated with the optical phase matching loop and a mixer  associated with the path length matching loop. The RF oscillator  signal for the larray element \u03c9is split 3 ways, first to the electronic phase adjustor  for optical phase matching, next to the mixer  associated with the optical phase matching loop, and finally to a RF harmonic generator  which is associated with the path length matching loop. If the first harmonic is used for both optical phase and path length matching, the RF harmonic generator  can be absent. The output of the mixer  associated with the optical phase matching loop is sent to phase locking signal processing electronics . Outputs from both the phase locking signal processing electronics  and the electronic phase adjustor  are then sent to a bias tee  which feeds a phase modulator  for the larray element which contributes to driving the optical phase differences between the array elements to zero. For the path length matching loop, the signal from the RF harmonic generator  is then sent to an electronic phase adjustor . Signals from the electronic phase adjustors  and  accounts for electronic phase errors induced by differing lengths of the RF cables. The electronic phase adjustors  and  can be replaced by fixed cable lengths or phase delays. The signal from the electronic phase adjustor is then directed into the path length matching mixer  with the output of the mixer feeding the signal processing electronics for path length matching . The output signal from the path length matching signal processing electronics  is passed through an amplifier  before being directed to the larray element temperature controlled spool  ( of ). The larray element temperature controlled spool  is adjusted to match the larray element's path length to the path length of the reference leg. The signal processing circuit for the path length matching control loop maximizes, S, for each of the N\u22121 modulated array elements independently for even harmonics and minimizes Sfor odd harmonics. The path length matching and the optical phase matching components are independent of each other.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["132","161","162","163","164","162","164","162","133","133","164","165","166"],"sup":["th ","th "],"sub":"l "}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
