---
title: Computer-implemented system and method for transparently interfacing with legacy line of business applications
abstract: A computer-implemented system and method for transparently interfacing with legacy line of business applications is provided. A plurality of legacy line of business applications execute on a line of business server platform. A connector is interfaced to each legacy line of business application. Each legacy line of business application implements business logic for a specific business need. A dashboard application executes on a client platform into which at least one Widget application is tailored to and installed for one or more of the legacy line of business applications. An enterprise collaboration server executes on a collaboration server platform communicatively interposed between the line of business server platform and the client platform. A data access framework coupled to the dashboard application is provided through a user interface layer. A data service bus coupled to the line of business applications through their respective connector and to the data access framework is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08914544&OS=08914544&RS=08914544
owner: Smartek21, LLC
number: 08914544
owner_city: Kirkland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110622
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This non-provisional patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/357,955, filed Jun. 23, 2010, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.","This invention relates in general to line of business software workflow and, in particular, to a computer-implemented system and method for transparently interfacing with legacy line of business applications.","Generally speaking, line of business (\u201cLOB\u201d) applications refer to a class of vertical and often highly customized software applications used primarily in enterprise computing environments to implement business essential and mission-critical corporate functionality. LOB applications provide core functionality in support of the day-to-day operations of a corporation or other form of large organization, such as a hospital, government, university, non-profit organization, and the like. Herein, corporations and corporate need will be mentioned in the context of LOB applications, but these terms should be understood to apply to all forms of organization, corporate or otherwise, whether large or small, that rely on LOB applications to fulfill an internal computer automation business need.","Programmatically, LOB applications implement the rules and policies, organizational workflow and operations, and business heuristics that together define the crucial backbone operations that are used internally by various departments within an organization, such as human resources, corporate relations, sales, marketing, and production, although LOB applications could also provide other kinds of less critical or non-core functionality.","When adapting and customizing enterprise platform solutions for a corporate customer, business needs are generally translated into separate LOB applications that vertically align with each specific business need, but not necessarily with providing functionality for the business needs of other departments within the corporation. As a result, access to each type of LOB application has historically been limited to those employees working within the functional area of the department from which the business need originated. For instance, a human resources (HR) department would typically be charged with control over those LOB applications concerning payroll, benefits, vacation, recruiting, and the like. Personnel in other departments outside of HR would not ordinarily have access to the HR department's LOB applications.","While restricting access ensures only authorized use of a vertical LOB application by the originating department's employees, other personnel outside of a responsible department's immediate staff may also have legitimate business reasons for wanting to access another department's LOB application, albeit in a possibly more limited or restricted fashion. Conventional approaches to providing limited access to employees and other personnel who are outside of a responsible department has ordinarily required implementing a separate programmatic interface into the LOB application. For instance, separate interfaces might be needed to provide restricted access to an HR department's LOB application for employees in the corporate relations, sales, and marketing departments. The utility of providing a separate interface to each outside department can be outweighed by cost and complexity, yet denying personnel in outside departments access to other departments' LOB applications forces those employees to resort to less efficient means of interoperating and conducting corporate affairs, including undertaking manual workflow.","Therefore, a need remains for providing flexible interfaces to LOB applications to meet the divergent interests of personnel in different departments, as well as other authorized individuals, within a corporate enterprise.","A set of legacy line of business (LOB) applications implement business logic for a specific business need. A set of wrappers provide workflow timing and data integration of business rules and interface the LOB applications to integration business adapters. In turn, the integration business adapters communicate with middle tier components executing on an enterprise collaboration platform via an enterprise service bus that is coupled to a data access framework. End users execute a dashboard application on client systems that are functionally connected to a Widget-based user interface layer also executing on the enterprise collaboration platform. Widgets installed within each dashboard application provides end-to-end access to the LOB applications in collaboration with the user interface layer and data access framework.","One embodiment provides a computer-implemented system and method for transparently interfacing with legacy line of business applications. A plurality of legacy line of business applications execute on a line of business server platform. A connector is interfaced to each legacy line of business application. Each legacy line of business application implements business logic for a specific business need. A dashboard application executes on a client platform into which at least one Widget application is tailored to and installed for one or more of the legacy line of business applications. An enterprise collaboration server executes on a collaboration server platform communicatively interposed between the line of business server platform and the client platform. A data access framework coupled to the dashboard application is provided through a user interface layer. A data service bus coupled to the legacy line of business applications through their respective connector and to the data access framework is provided.","Still other embodiments of the present invention will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, wherein are described embodiments by way of illustrating the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. As will be realized, the invention is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects, all without departing from the spirit the scope of the present invention. Accordingly, the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.","At a high level, an LOB application implements business logic in software. In turn, the business logic includes rules that express business policy. The rules also express business workflow that enumerates ordered tasks and define information flow from one person or entity to another. Other LOB functionality is also possible. Conventionally, LOB applications have frequently been developed to meet the needs of a specific customer by adapting and customizing a solution from an enterprise platform software suite, including so-called cloud computing platforms, to a specific business deployment.","In general, LOB applications are implemented through enterprise software platform suites typically configured to operate in a client-server topology within an enterprise computing environment.  is a block diagram  showing an exemplary enterprise environment  for transparently interfacing to a legacy line of business application. A typical enterprise environment includes both local enterprise components operating within the confines of a corporate local area network or intranetwork , and remote outside components operating over a wide area network or internetwork , such as the Internet. The internetwork  and internetwork  are preferably securely implemented and interconnected in varying combinations of wired and wireless media with access provided through a gateway  or similar device.","Enterprise computing environments are generally setup to operate in a client-server configuration, although peer-to-peer configurations are also possible. For a client-server configuration within an intranetwork  section of an enterprise, LOB applications are deployed on one or more servers ,  of various types. Clients , , which are assigned to users in different departments or functional areas of responsibility within a company, interconnect to the servers ,  over the internetwork  to access the LOB applications. Similarly, for a client-server configuration in an internetwork  section of an enterprise, remote clients  and remote servers , which can be coupled to remote storage , collaboratively interface with the enterprise components located inside the local enterprise environment.","Server functionality may be provided through a single physical server system, or by a combination of distributed server systems operating collaboratively. The distributed servers can be situated both within and outside of the intranetwork . Other types of enterprise components, both within and outside of a local enterprise environment, could also be a part of the full enterprise environment, including cloud computing platforms. The servers , ,  and clients , ,  include hardware components conventionally found in general purpose programmable computing devices, such as a central processing unit, memory, input\/output ports, network interfaces, and non-volatile storage, and execute software programs structured into routines, functions, and modules for execution on the various systems.","The local enterprise components include an LOB server  that are either a single server or collaboratively-configured servers coupled to one or more databases , within which enterprise information is maintained. The LOB server  stores and executes one or more LOB server applications (not shown), which implement server business logic for a specific business need. The LOB server  executes an enterprise software platform suite, such as SAP Netweaver, Oracle E-Business Suite, and so forth, and each LOB application is implemented through the enterprise software platform suite. Other current LOB products and vendors include, by way of example, the SAP CRM (Customer Relationship Management) Solution suite, licensed by SAP America, Newtown Square, Pa.; the Force.com cloud computing platform, licensed by Salesforce.com, San Francisco, Calif.; the Microsoft Dynamics GP suite, formerly Great Plains accounting software, licensed by Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash.; the PeopleSoft HRMS (Human Resources Management Systems), FMS (Financials Management Systems), CRM software suites, formerly licensed by PeopleSoft, Inc., Pleasanton, Calif., since acquired by Oracle Corporation; and the Oracle E-Business Suite, licensed by Oracle Corporation, Redwood Shores, Calif.","Client systems , can access the LOB applications on the LOB server  locally via the intranetwork  or remotely via the internetwork . The LOB server  provides authentication and access to the LOB applications and databases  assigned to the enterprise function. Each client system , must have permissions or authorizations to access the LOB applications and databases. Access to each vertically-aligned LOB application is generally limited to those clients , being operated by end users in the specific department or functional area of a corporation to which the LOB application belongs. For instance, end users on client systems , assigned to the human resources department are allowed to execute those LOB applications and databases on the LOB server  provided in support of human resources functions. Typically, other non-human resources end users are precluded from using those LOB applications or data.","The restrictions on access to the LOB applications and their corresponding databases as vertically-aligned by the business needs and workflow of individual corporate departments can be relaxed, as least partially, by providing additional LOB applications or portals custom tailored to the needs of a wider set of users. However, creating and supporting customized special need LOB applications can entail significant time and cost, which increases with the number and complexity of applications. Each of the separate interfaces entails the expenditure of additional resources, time, and cost. Moreover, the complexity of interfacing to internal LOB applications, and therefore costs, rapidly climb as the number of separate interfaces into each vertical set of LOB applications grows. In the worst case, a different interface could be required for each outside department needing access to a single vertical LOB application. Rather than undergoing the development and deployment of specialized LOB application interfaces for each different outside department with a need for access, such needs for horizontal access to LOB applications could be met by introducing an integration collaboration architecture, including an enterprise collaboration server , as further described below, to intermediate between the client systems of end users and the LOB applications and databases operating on the LOB servers.","One embodiment provides an enterprise collaboration server  that is coupled to storage  and interfaced to both the LOB server  and various clients, including local clients , and remote clients  (hereafter collectively referenced as simply \u201cclients\u201d). The integration collaboration architecture implements each of the various functions performed by the LOB server , enterprise collaboration server  and clients , , .  is a functional block diagram showing a process flow  for the components of . The process flow  is performed collaboratively by an LOB server , enterprise collaboration server , and clients , .","The enterprise collaboration server  interfaces the clients , ,  with LOB applications executing on an LOB server . In addition, each client , ,  executes a dashboard application into which LOB application-tailored widgets can be installed. Finally, a set of wrappers  is introduced into the LOB server  to allow communication with the enterprise collaboration server  over an enterprise service bus.","The LOB server  executes a set of LOB applications -that implement business logic for enterprise functions -, such as human capital management (\u201cHCM\u201d), electronic recruiting (\u201ceRecruit\u201d), sales, customer relation management (\u201cCRM\u201d), and supply chain management. Other LOB applications are also possible. The LOB server  also executes a set of connectors  that include integration business adapters and a set of wrappers for each of the LOB applications -. An integration business adapter is software tailored to communicate with different LOB applications -, thereby allowing data exchange between two or more otherwise vertically-aligned LOB applications. A wrapper is an application that extracts content from a LOB application -information source and translates the content into another form, generally expressed a relational structured data for use by a dashboard application , , as further described below.","The enterprise collaboration server  functionally defines a mapping layer  and a Widget-based user interface layer , which respectively interface with the LOB server  and the clients , . The connectors  interface with the LOB server  via a mapping layer  that provides a data service bus coupled to a data access framework. In turn, the mapping layer  interfaces with end-user dashboard applications , , such as employee or manager dashboard applications, executing on the clients ,  via a user interface layer . The details of the connectors , mapping layer , and user interface layer  are further described below with reference to .","Each end-user dashboard application ,  provides an extensible user interface framework into which one or more widgets can be installed. The dashboard applications allow transparent access to the LOB applications -and decouple implementation of the user interface from LOB-application specifics. The details of the dashboard applications ,  are further described below with reference to .","The integration collaboration architecture supplants the need to use vertical applications by insulating users from the specifics of each LOB application, thereby providing transparency and usability.  is a block diagram showing an architectural view  of the components of . Transparency in the interfacing of dashboard applications with and in the decoupling of services from the LOB applications is primarily provided through the enterprise collaboration server . The LOB server  and clients ,  provide supporting functionality to respectively open up the LOB applications -to access by the enterprise collaboration server  and to present an extensible user interface on end-user client systems , .","Architecturally, the enterprise collaboration platform is structured into a set of server-side functions. The enterprise collaboration server  is structured into a site collection component , user interface layer , middle tier component , and data access framework . These components operate on a server platform for collaboration and Web publishing, such as Microsoft SharePoint server , licensed by Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash.","The site collection component  is used to organize local enterprise information. The site collection component  interfaces with the user interface layer  and middle tier component  to respectively provide access to a document library  and Web subsite . Users are able to access the document library  and the Web subsite  through their dashboard applications, which rely on the user interface layer  to present a user interface to end users. On the client side, the user interface layer  interacts with end-user dashboard applications. Widgets are installed in the dashboard applications to provide various forms of functionality. A user interface controller  provides a Web application framework using, for instance, C# and ASP.NET, licensed by Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash. Accordingly, the user interface controller  executes stored ASPX forms  and custom Web parts  that allow end users to modify the content, appearance, and behavior of components, particularly widgets, within the Web pages that make up a dashboard application. On the middle tier component side, data is exchanged from the data access framework  through a data manager  that operates alongside the user interface controller . Data used by the dashboard applications is supplemented with business data that is retrieved from a business data catalog  using business data catalog Web parts. The data access framework  includes business objects  that incorporate the business logic required to operate on data directly within a dashboard application. The data access framework  also includes a set of mappers and providers  that convert and supply data to the widgets, as well as a set of Web services  provided through the dashboard applications.","The middle tier component  interfaces directly to the line of business server  through an enterprise service bus . In one embodiment, as an example, the enterprise service bus is implemented as a set of adapters , such as BizTalk WCF Adapters for SAP, licensed by Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash. Sets of adapters for other LOB applications, including the Force.com cloud computing platform, Microsoft Dynamics GP Suite, PeopleSoft HRMS, FMS, and CRM software suites, and the Oracle E-Business Suite, could also be implemented and deployed. The adapters  constituting the enterprise service bus communicate with a corresponding set of integration business adapters , which can include business application programming interfaces (BAPI), remote function calls (RFC), and remote-enabled function modules (RFM). Other forms of adapters are possible. The adapters  are coupled to a set of wrappers that implement business logic interfaced to the LOB applications .","Finally, the data access framework  provides single sign-on functionality  and maintains user state through storage of user profile data . Site-wide state is maintained in a metadata database . The data access framework  synchronizes each user's LOB server credentials with their enterprise system credentials using an active directory, thereby eliminating the need for a user to enter their LOB credentials separately.","End users interface with the LOB applications on the LOB server through dashboard applications.  is a diagram showing, by way of example, a screen shot of a user interface presented by one of the client systems of . The dashboard application executes on a client system. Widgets are installed into the dashboard application to provide functionality. Widgets significantly reduce the need for employee self-service training and minimizes expenses associated with self-service deployment.","The exemplary employee dashboard shows an employee time management widget set. Other dashboards are possible. Multiple LOB applications are integrated into the dashboard as widgets for efficient review and management. An administrator can rearrange the order of widgets, remove widgets, or add widgets from other dashboard applications. Each widget is implemented through a combination of ASPX forms code , Web parts , written, for instance, in C#, business objects , and mappers and providers . A set of additional exemplary widgets, including their associated benefits are presented in TABLE 1. Other widgets could also be provided to cover other areas of LOB applications, including additional functions in human resources, corporate relations, sales, marketing, and production.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Widget","Widget Set","Benefits"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["My Information","Used across sets","Presents the photo, email address,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"business contact information, and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"other similar types of information"]},{"entry":[{},{},"for an employee."]},{"entry":["Company","Used across sets","Provides a location to place links"]},{"entry":["Resources",{},"related to and information about"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the company."]},{"entry":["My Tasks\/","Dashboard (both)","Tracks all active tasks for an"]},{"entry":["Reminder\/Outbox",{},"employee, provides him or her"]},{"entry":[{},{},"with reminders of those active"]},{"entry":[{},{},"tasks needing action, and supports"]},{"entry":[{},{},"an outbox identifying those active"]},{"entry":[{},{},"tasks that have been acted upon."]},{"entry":[{},{},"For example, managers would see"]},{"entry":[{},{},"time sheet approval requests or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"PTO requests in their My"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Tasks\/Reminder\/Outbox. An"]},{"entry":[{},{},"employee would be presented"]},{"entry":[{},{},"with reminders of time sheets to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"revise or complete and could"]},{"entry":[{},{},"view the status of time sheets"]},{"entry":[{},{},"submitted."]},{"entry":["My Organization","Manager","By default, presents managers"]},{"entry":[{},"Dashboard","with a pictorial or textual"]},{"entry":[{},{},"summary wall of their direct"]},{"entry":[{},{},"reports, as well as those managers"]},{"entry":[{},{},"to whom they report. They can"]},{"entry":[{},{},"also select walls from a drop"]},{"entry":[{},{},"down list of units or divisions"]},{"entry":[{},{},"within their company."]},{"entry":["Quick Time Entry","Employee","From their dashboard, an"]},{"entry":[{},"Dashboard","employee can enter hours or other"]},{"entry":[{},{},"time units worked for a week or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"other time interval, defaulted to"]},{"entry":[{},{},"activities performed in the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"previous week, then submit these"]},{"entry":[{},{},"entries on-line for approval."]},{"entry":["Schedule\/","Employee","A calendar presenting the work"]},{"entry":["Time Off","Dashboard","schedule and time off for each"]},{"entry":[{},{},"week can be viewed for the time"]},{"entry":[{},{},"periods selected by the employee."]},{"entry":["Paystubs","Employee","An employee can view and print"]},{"entry":[{},"Dashboard","an image of their latest paystub or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"similar documents or use a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"calendar to select earlier"]},{"entry":[{},{},"paystubs."]},{"entry":["Benefits","Employee","The current status of benefits or"]},{"entry":[{},"Dashboard","similar documents available to an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"employee can be viewed and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"printed."]},{"entry":["Travel and","Employee","This widget provides a"]},{"entry":["Expenses","Dashboard","connection to travel plans,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"expenses reports, or similar"]},{"entry":[{},{},"documents being processed."]},{"entry":["Personal Details","Personal Admin","An employee can enter and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"maintain entries in this widget"]},{"entry":[{},{},"that describe his personal or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"similar information."]},{"entry":["Family","Personal Admin","The full names, nicknames,"]},{"entry":["Details\/",{},"nationality and related"]},{"entry":["Dependents",{},"information for family members"]},{"entry":[{},{},"or dependants can be maintained"]},{"entry":[{},{},"by an employee within this"]},{"entry":[{},{},"widget."]},{"entry":["Work Details","Personal Admin","The contact information at work"]},{"entry":[{},{},"or similar information is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"maintained by an employee using"]},{"entry":[{},{},"this widget."]},{"entry":["Addresses","Personal Admin","The addresses to use for personal"]},{"entry":[{},{},"or emergency contacts or similar"]},{"entry":[{},{},"information can be entered or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"modified in this widget by the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"employee."]},{"entry":["Bank Accounts","Personal Admin","An employee can enter, revise,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"delete, and update their bank"]},{"entry":[{},{},"account information, not only for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"their primary bank, but also for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"secondary banks and other"]},{"entry":[{},{},"financial institution data. This"]},{"entry":[{},{},"information includes how much"]},{"entry":[{},{},"of their compensation they would"]},{"entry":[{},{},"like to send to each account as a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"value or percentage, whether by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"check or direct deposit."]},{"entry":["Compensation","Compensation","An employee can view their"]},{"entry":["History",{},"compensation history, selecting a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"range of pay periods using"]},{"entry":[{},{},"calendar lookups."]},{"entry":["Base Pay","Compensation","Base pay can be viewed by an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"employee with a click of their"]},{"entry":[{},{},"mouse."]},{"entry":["Tax Withholding","Compensation","Tax withholding information can"]},{"entry":[{},{},"be viewed and modified by an"]},{"entry":[{},{},"employee to reflect changes in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"their taxation status."]},{"entry":["My Schedule","Time","The planned work schedule for"]},{"entry":[{},"Management","different weeks can be viewed by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"an employee for upcoming"]},{"entry":[{},{},"months."]},{"entry":["My PTO","Time","Paid time off balances of various"]},{"entry":["Balances","Management","types can be reviewed as well as"]},{"entry":[{},{},"requests for time off submitted"]},{"entry":[{},{},"within this widget."]},{"entry":["Time Entry","Time","Hours or other time units worked"]},{"entry":[{},"Management","per day during each week can be"]},{"entry":[{},{},"charged to specific accounts,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"copies of hours from previous"]},{"entry":[{},{},"weeks can be accessed, hours can"]},{"entry":[{},{},"be revised before submission as"]},{"entry":[{},{},"they are saved, hours can be"]},{"entry":[{},{},"corrected if rejected after"]},{"entry":[{},{},"submission and viewed over"]},{"entry":[{},{},"different time periods."]},{"entry":["Time Approval","Time","Requests for approvals of time"]},{"entry":[{},"Management","sheets and their status are"]},{"entry":[{},{},"displayed in the manager's task"]},{"entry":[{},{},"list."]},{"entry":["Sales","Sales and","Requests for approvals\/status of"]},{"entry":[{},"Distribution","Sales Orders and Distribution"]},{"entry":[{},{},"components within the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"manufacturing channel."]},{"entry":["CRM","Customer","Requests for approvals of"]},{"entry":[{},"Relation","Customer Relationship"]},{"entry":[{},"Management","Management and their"]},{"entry":[{},{},"management components"]},{"entry":["Order Entry","Order Entry","Requests for sales orders and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"creation of sales orders."]},{"entry":["Opportunities","Opportunity","Ability to organize sale"]},{"entry":[{},"Management","opportunity in LOB applications."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"While the invention has been particularly shown and described as referenced to the embodiments thereof, those skilled in the art will understand that the foregoing and other changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
