---
title: Contaminate control device
abstract: A contaminate control device for filtering contaminates from a gas such as air is provided. The device includes a housing having a first inlet and a first outlet. An axial flow filter is fluidly coupled between the first inlet and the first outlet, the axial flow filter has a second inlet and a second outlet. A second filter disposed about the axial flow filter and is fluidly coupled between the first inlet and the first outlet, the second filter having a third inlet on an inner diameter and a third outlet disposed on an outer diameter. A flow restrictor is fluidly coupled between the second inlet and the first inlet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08858889&OS=08858889&RS=08858889
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Space Systems International, Inc.
number: 08858889
owner_city: Windsor Locks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110411
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was made with government support under Contract Number NNJ06TA25C, subcontract number RH6-118203 awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). The government may have certain rights in the invention.","The subject matter disclosed herein relates to a device for filtering a gas and in particular to a device that removes trace contaminants from a gas stream in a pressurized and vacuum environment.","Vehicles such as high altitude, suborbital or spacecraft vehicles utilize air filtration systems to recycle air for use by the vehicles occupants. Typically, the filtration is accomplished using a catalytic reaction of contaminants in one device and an absorption reaction in second device. Each device uses a container that holds media particles. These devices may be arranged in parallel with a single air flow being split into two air streams. Each device has an air flow operating parameter under which it operates to remove the desired contamination. In a typical filtration system, one device processes a larger volume of air than the other device. Since the separate air streams are recombined before being returned for use within the vehicle, additional hardware and components are utilized to equalize the pressure drop of the air streams as they flow through the filtration devices.","These filtration systems operate in a demanding environment that varies from atmospheric pressure to the vacuum of space. A typical filtration system media is not intended to be used in a vacuum environment. Therefore the filtration devices are arranged within vessels with increased wall thicknesses that add weight to the vehicle. Further, the media may be regularly replaced during maintenance operations so the vessels will have joints that need to be sealed. Due to the increased potential for a leakage of one of these seals, spacecraft usually transport additional make up gas that may be used to compensate for any leakage. It should be appreciated that the need for bringing make up gas increases the weight of the air filtration system and decreases available space for payload.","Accordingly, while existing vehicle air filtration systems are suitable for their intended purposes the need for improvement remains, particularly in providing a filtration device that reduces the complexity of installation and also the size and weight of the air filtration system.","According to one aspect of the invention, a contaminate control device is provided. The contaminate control device having a housing with a first inlet and a first outlet. An axial flow filter is fluidly coupled between the first inlet and the first outlet, the axial flow filter having a second inlet and a second outlet. A radial flow filter is disposed about the axial flow filter and is fluidly coupled between the first inlet and the first outlet, the radial flow filter having a third inlet on an inner diameter and a third outlet disposed on an outer diameter. A flow restrictor is fluidly coupled between the second inlet and the first inlet.","According to another aspect of the invention, another contaminate control device is provided. The contaminate control device having a housing with a inlet on a first end and an opening on a second end. A first cover is sealingly coupled to the opening, the first cover and the housing cooperating to define an interior volume, the first cover having an outlet. A filter member is disposed within the interior volume and is fluidly coupled between the inlet and the outlet. The filter member having a cylindrical filter portion and a tubular filter portion at least partially disposed about the cylindrical filter portion. The filter member further having a flow restrictor disposed between the cylindrical filter portion and the inlet.","According to yet another aspect of the invention, yet another contaminate control device is provided. The contaminate control device includes a pressure vessel having a closed first end and an open second end, the first end having a wall having an inlet and a first chamber. A first cover is removably and sealably coupled to the second end, the first cover having an outlet. The pressure vessel and the first cover are arranged to cooperate in defining an interior volume. A member is removably coupled within the interior volume. The member comprises a first filter having a housing and a perforated inlet end and a perforated outlet end. The first filter having a catalyst disposed therein, wherein the perforated inlet end is fluidly coupled to the first chamber and the perforated outlet end is fluidly coupled to the outlet. The member also has a flow restrictor disposed in the housing adjacent the perforated inlet end. A second filter is provided having an inner diameter and an outer diameter, the second filter being disposed at least partially around the first filter. A first channel is defined by the housing and the inner diameter, the first channel being fluidly coupled to the inlet. A second channel is defined by the pressure vessel and the outer diameter, the second channel being fluidly coupled to the outlet.","These and other advantages and features will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the drawings.","The detailed description explains embodiments of the invention, together with advantages and features, by way of example with reference to the drawings.","Air filtration systems are utilized in high altitude, suborbital and space vehicles to remove contaminants from a supply of air to allow extended operations when the external environment does not provide a fresh supply of air. Embodiments of the present invention provide a contaminant control device that may be used in a vehicle, such as a spacecraft, aircraft, submarines and nuclear-biological-contamination (NBC) vehicles for example, to remove trace contaminants from a gas stream. Embodiments of the present invention reduce the weight and space utilized by a contaminant control device. Embodiments of the present invention provide for the balancing of the pressure drop across different filtration media. Embodiments of the invention provide for a pressure vessel that reduces the number of joints and seals that are maintained to reduce the potential for leakage.","It should be appreciated that while embodiments described herein may refer to a gas stream being filters as being \u201cair\u201d, the gas stream may be any suitable human-breathable gas such as an oxygen-enriched gas for example. Further, as used herein, the term \u201cfilter\u201d means any device that increases the purity of the air, either by entrapping the contaminant within the media or by converting the contaminant with a catalyst. Therefore, the filter may be a particulate removal device, a catalytic chemical reactor, a chemical sorbent device or an ion exchange device.","An exemplary embodiment of a contaminant control device  is shown in  that includes a single housing  that acts as a pressure vessel to contain a first filter media  and a second filter media . The housing  is a pressure vessel that includes a body portion  and a cover . The body portion  has a semispherical end  with an inlet . A cylindrical wall  extends from the semispherical end  and terminates at an open end having a flange . Coupled to the flange  is a semispherical cover  having an outlet . A seal  is arranged between the cover  and the flange . The cover  and body portion  cooperate to define an interior volume  that contains the media , .","Adjacent the inlet  is a chamber  that bifurcates the incoming air steam. A portion of the air stream enters a cylindrical channel . In the exemplary embodiment, the channel  is disposed about the first filter media . The channel  directs the air stream to a perforated inner diameter wall  of a housing for the second filter media . The air stream flows radially through the second filter media  and exits via a perforated outer diameter wall  into a second channel . The outer wall  and an interior surface of the cylindrical wall  define the second channel . In the exemplary embodiment the second filter media  is a charcoal absorption media.","The second portion of the incoming air stream is directed from the chamber  through a flow restrictor  into the first filter media . The second air steam flows axially through the first filter media  to an outlet end . In the exemplary embodiment, the flow restrictor  is comprised of at least one disk made from a porous or woven material, such as a felt disk or a screen for example. The flow restrictor  is disposed at the entrance to the first filter media . In one embodiment, the contaminant control device  is calibrated during assembly by increasing or decreasing the number of felt disks in the flow restrictor  to ensure a substantially equal pressure drop between the air stream flowing through the filter media , . The felt disk may have a thickness of up to 0.080 inches (2.032 millimeters) to provide incremental adjustments in the pressure drop. In the exemplary embodiment, the first filter media  includes an ambient temperature catalytic oxidizer (ATCO) catalyst.","The air streams from the outlet end  and the second channel  converge in a chamber . In one embodiment, the chamber  is defined by wall or media cover  and the cover . The chamber  allows the two air streams to recombine prior to exiting the contaminant control device  via the outlet .","Referring now to , another embodiment is shown of a contaminant control device . In this embodiment, the contaminant control device  includes a housing  having a body portion  and a cover . In the exemplary embodiment, the body portion  and cover  are made from aluminum. The body portion  includes an inlet end  that may include one or more ribs . A semispherical projection  extends from the end  and terminates in a flange . In one embodiment, the flange  provides for a bolted and sealed connection with the inlet conduit (not shown) of an air filtration system. An inlet  extends into the body portion  as will be discussed in more detail below. The body portion  includes a flange  at an opposite end with a cylindrical wall  disposed therebetween. The body portion  may include one or more mounting brackets  that allow the contaminant control device  to be secured within the vehicle.","The cover  includes a semispherical portion  and a generally planar outer diameter portion . The outer diameter portion  includes a plurality of holes that are sized to receive fasteners  that couple the cover  to the flange . An outlet  is arranged centrally on the semispherical portion . As will be discussed in more detail below, the outlet  extends into an interior volume of the housing . The outlet  is configured to sealingly couple with a discharge conduit (not shown) that routes the filtered air stream for further use or processing.","The inlet  extends towards the interior volume of the housing  and into a bell-shaped chamber  (). In one embodiment, the chamber  is defined within a wall  of the end . The wall  may include a lip  having a diameter sized to receive a rim  of a filter media canister . A seal  may be disposed between the rim  and the lip  to prevent air from leaking into channel .","The filter media canister  is removably coupled within the housing . The media canister  includes a first filter cartridge  having a perforated inlet  that provides a substantially uniform flow of gas into the interior of the first filter cartridge . Adjacent the inlet  is a preload pad  and a flow restrictor . The preload pad  may be made from a closed-cell silicone material for example. The preload pad  applies a desired level of pressure on the media bed to maintain the media bed at a desired density under a variety of conditions, such as under the vibrations experienced during a vehicle launch. The preload provided by the preload pad  further assists in preventing channeling of the media bed particles. The flow restrictor  may be any suitable member that provides a desired pressure drop, such as but not limited to felt disks or screens for example. In the exemplary embodiment, the flow restrictor  may include at least one felt disk . The felt disk  allows for a substantially uniform distribution of the gas.","In one embodiment, the flow restrictor  is configured as a cartridge  having additional components such as a felt cup, screen and a rigid porous disk . The porous rigid disk  transfers the preload from the preload pad  substantially uniformly to the media bed material and also provides substantially free flow of gas to the media bed. The porous rigid disk  may be made from an expanded aluminum foam for example. Adjacent the flow restrictor  is a first media bed . In the exemplary embodiment, the first media bed  is made from a charcoal absorption media. A screen  is arranged on one end of the first media bed  and separates the first media bed  from a second media bed . In one embodiment, the second media bed  includes ambient temperature catalytic oxidizer (ATCO) catalyst. Opposite the screen , the first filter cartridge  has a screen , porous rigid disk  and a perforated outlet . In the exemplary embodiment, the media beds ,  are disposed within a filter bag , such as one made out of felt for example, that holds the media particles within the first filter cartridge . The filter bag  assists in preventing media particle dust from entering the outlet stream.","Disposed about the first filter cartridge  is a second filter cartridge  having a generally tubular shape. The second filter cartridge  includes a projection  having the rim . As discussed above, the rim  engages the lip  to secure the end of the media canister  within the housing  and provide a seal. The rim  includes a plurality of projections  that extend radially inward from the rim . The projections  secure the end of the first filter canister  and also define a plurality of inlet openings . The inlet openings  fluidly couple the chamber  to a cylindrical channel . In one embodiment, the projections  position the first filter cartridge  coaxially within the interior diameter of the second filter cartridge .","The channel  is defined between the outer diameter of the first filter cartridge  and the inner diameter wall  of the second filter cartridge . In one embodiment, the wall  is perforated having holes  () with a diameter of 0.063 inches (1.6 millimeters). In one embodiment, the holes  are spaced apart a first distance  of 0.080 inches (2.032 millimeters) and a second distance  of 0.069 inches (1.753 millimeters). In one embodiment, the wall includes an area  arranged about the periphery that does not have any holes . The perforations allow an air stream entering the channel  to flow into a media bed  containing a charcoal absorption media. The outer diameter of the second filter cartridge  includes a perforated wall  that allows the air stream to exit the media bed . The wall  may include holes sized and positioned substantially similar to those described for the wall . In the exemplary embodiment, the media bed  is disposed within a filter bag , such as one made out of felt for example, that holds the media particles within the second filter cartridge . The felt bag  assists in preventing media particle dust from entering the outlet stream.","On one end of the second filter cartridge  is a preload member . The preload member  applies a pressure on the media bed particles to assist in maintaining the desired density under a variety of operating conditions, such as the vibrations associated with vehicle launches for example. In the exemplary embodiment, the preload member  is made from a closed cell silicone pad. At an opposite end of the second filter cartridge  is a cover . The cover  may include one or more holes  that receive fasteners  () to couple the filter media canister  to the body portion . Fasteners  extend through the cover  to couple the first media cartridge  to the cover . The cover  may include one or more cavities  to reduce weight. The cover  further includes an outside contour  that cooperates with an inside contour  of the flange  to define one or more semiannular slots . The slots  connect with a channel  defined between the wall  and in the inner diameter of the body portion . The channel  directs the air stream exiting the media bed  through the slots .","In one embodiment, the cover  and cover  cooperate to define a chamber . The chamber  receives air streams exiting the perforated outlet  and the slots  allowing the air filtered through the different media beds , ,  to be recombined. The combined air streams exit the chamber  via outlet .","During operation, the air stream is received via inlet  and enters the chamber  where the air stream bifurcates. A first air stream enters the first filter cartridge via the perforated inlet . A second air stream enters the channel  via the openings . In the exemplary embodiment, the flow rate of the second air stream is approximately four times that of the first air stream. The first air stream passes through the flow restrictor and axially into the first media bed . The axial flow continues through the second media bed  before exiting via outlet . The second air stream passes into the channel  and flows through the perforations in wall  and is directed radially through the media bed . The second air stream exits the media bed at perforated wall  and flows through the slots  via the channel . The first air stream and second air stream recombine in the chamber  and exit via the outlet .","It should be appreciated that the contaminant control device provides both the absorption and catalytic reaction filtration to occur within a single pressure vessel having only one sealed joint. The contaminant control device further integrates a flow control within the housing that allows for calibration of the air flow distribution between the media beds ,  and the media bed . These features provide advantages in that the number of interconnecting ducts and tubes are reduced and the input and distribution plenums may be shared. Further advantages are proved in that the support structure, such as mounting brackets may be reduced. These features provide advantages in reducing both the size and weight of the contaminant control device while also increasing its reliability.","While the invention has been described in detail in connection with only a limited number of embodiments, it should be readily understood that the invention is not limited to such disclosed embodiments. Rather, the invention can be modified to incorporate any number of variations, alterations, substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described, but which are commensurate with the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally, while various embodiments of the invention have been described, it is to be understood that aspects of the invention may include only some of the described embodiments. Accordingly, the invention is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing description, but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":["The subject matter, which is regarded as the invention, is particularly pointed out and distinctly claimed in the claims at the conclusion of the specification. The foregoing and other features, and advantages of the invention are apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
