---
title: Catalyst mixtures
abstract: Catalysts that include at least one catalytically active element and one helper catalyst can be used to increase the rate or lower the overpotential of chemical reactions. The helper catalyst can simultaneously act as a director molecule, suppressing undesired reactions and thus increasing selectivity toward the desired reaction. These catalysts can be useful for a variety of chemical reactions including, in particular, the electrochemical conversion of COor formic acid. The catalysts can also suppress Hevolution, permitting electrochemical cell operation at potentials below RHE. Chemical processes and devices using the catalysts are also disclosed, including processes to produce CO, OH, HCO, HCO, (HCO), HCO, CHOH, CH, CH, CHCHOH, CHCOO, CHCOOH, CH, O, H, (COOH), or (COO), and a specific device, namely, a COsensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09566574&OS=09566574&RS=09566574
owner: Dioxide Materials, Inc.
number: 09566574
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110630
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENT(S)","Specific Example 1","Use of an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture Including Palladium and Choline Iodide to Lower the Overpotential for Electrochemical Conversion of COin Water and Suppress Hydrogen Formation","Specific Example 2","Use of an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture that Includes Palladium and Choline Chloride to Lower the Overpotential for Electrochemical Conversion of COto Formic Acid and Suppress Hydrogen Formation","Specific Example 3","Use of an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture that Includes Nickel and Choline Chloride to Lower the Overpotential for Electrochemical Conversion of COto CO and Suppress Hydrogen Formation","Specific Example 4","Suppression of the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction (HER) and Enhancement of Formic Acid Electrooxidation in the Presence of Choline Chloride","Experimental Results","Specific Example 5","Demonstration that an Active Element (Gold), Helper Catalyst Mixture is Useful in a COSensor)","Specific Example 6","Steady State Production of Carbon Monoxide","Specific Example 7","Demonstration of Hydrogen Suppression with Other Choline Derivatives"],"p":["This application is related to and claims priority benefits from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/484,072 filed May 9, 2011, entitled \u201cNovel Catalyst Mixtures\u201d. This application is also related to and claims priority benefits from U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 12\/830,338 filed Jul. 5, 2010, entitled \u201cNovel Catalyst Mixtures\u201d and international patent application No. PCT\/US2011\/030098, filed Mar. 25, 2011, entitled \u201cNovel Catalyst Mixtures\u201d. Each of the '072, '338 and '098 applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.","This invention was made, at least in part, with U.S. government support under Department of Energy Grant DE-SC0004453. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.","The field of the invention is electrochemical cells and electrochemistry. The electrochemical cell additives and methods of this invention are applicable, for example, to formic acid fuel cells, carbon dioxide conversion devices or sensors for monitoring carbon dioxide.","There is a present need to decrease carbon dioxide (CO) emissions from industrial facilities. Over the years, a number of electrochemical processes have been suggested for the conversion of COinto useful products. Processes for COconversion and the catalysts for them are discussed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,959,094; 4,240,882; 4,523,981; 4,545,872; 4,595,465; 4,608,132; 4,608,133; 4,609,440; 4,609,441; 4,609,451; 4,620,906; 4,668,349; 4,673,473; 4,711,708; 4,756,807; 4,818,353; 5,064,733; 5,284,563; 5,382,332; 5,457,079; 5,709,789; 5,928,806; 5,952,540; 6,024,855; 6,660,680; 6,987,134 (the '134 patent); U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,157,404; 7,378,561; 7,479,570; U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008\/0223727 A1 (the '727 publication); and papers reviewed by Hori (Modern Aspects of Electrochemistry, 42, 89-189, 2008) (\u201cthe Hon review\u201d), Gattrell, et al. (Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, 594, 1-19, 2006) (\u201cthe Gattrell review\u201d), DuBois (Encyclopedia of Electrochemistry, 7a, 202-225, 2006) (\u201cthe DuBois review\u201d), and the papers Li, et al. (Journal of Applied Electrochemistry, 36, 1105-1115, 2006), Li, et al. (Journal of Applied Electrochemistry, 37, 1107-1117, 2007), and Oloman, et al. (ChemSusChem, 1, 385-391, 2008) (\u201cthe Li and Oloman papers\u201d).","Generally an electrochemical cell 10 contains an anode 50, a cathode 51 and an electrolyte 53 as indicated in FIG. 1. The devices can also include a membrane 52. Catalysts are placed on the anode, and or cathode and or in the electrolyte to promote desired chemical reactions. During operation, reactants or a solution containing reactants is fed into the cell via anode reactant manifold 54 and cathode reactant manifold 55. Then a voltage is applied between the anode and the cathode, to promote an electrochemical reaction.","When an electrochemical cell is used as a COconversion system, a reactant comprising CO, carbonate or bicarbonate is fed into the cell. A voltage is applied to the cell, and the COreacts to form new chemical compounds. Examples of cathode reactions in the Hori review include:\n\nCO+2\u2192CO+\n\n2CO+2\u2192CO+CO\u2212\n\nCO+HO+2\u2192CO+2OH\n\nCO+2HO+4\u2192HCO+3OH\n\nCO+2HO+2\u2192HCO+2OH\n\nCO+HO+2\u2192(HCO)+OH\n\nCO+2HO+2\u2192HCO+2OH\n\nCO+6HO+6\u2192CHOH+6OH\n\nCO+6HO+8\u2192CH+8OH\n\n2CO+8HO+12\u2192CH+12OH\n\n2CO+9HO+12\u2192CHCHOH+12OH\n\n2CO+6HO+8\u2192CHCOOH+8OH\n\n2CO+5HO+8\u2192CHCOO+7OH\n\nCO+10HO+14\u2192CH+14OH\n\nCO+2H+2\u2192CO+HO, acetic acid, oxalic acid, oxylate\n\nCO+4H+4\u2192CH+O\n\nwhere e is an electron. The examples given above are merely illustrative and are not meant to be an exhaustive list of all possible cathode reactions.\n","Examples of reactions on the anode mentioned in the Hon review include:\n\n2O\u2192O+4\n\n2CO\u2192O+2CO+4\n\n4OH\u2192O+2HO+4\n\n2HO\u2192O+4H+4\n","The examples given above are merely illustrative and are not meant to be an exhaustive list of all possible anode reactions.","In the previous literature, catalysts comprising one or more of V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Sn, Zr, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Cd, Hf, Ta, W, Re, Ir, Pt, Au, Hg, Al, Si, In, Sn, Tl, Pb, Bi, Sb, Te, U, Sm, Tb, La, Ce, and Nd have all shown activity for COconversion. Reviews include Ma, et al. (Catalysis Today, 148, 221-231, 2009), Hori (Modern Aspects of Electrochemistry, 42, 89-189, 2008), Gattrell, et al. (Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, 594, 1-19, 2006), DuBois (Encyclopedia of Electrochemistry, 7a, 202-225, 2006) and references therein.","The results in the Hori review show that the conversion of COis only mildly affected by solvent unless the solvent also acts as a reactant. Water can act like a reactant, so reactions in water are different than reactions in non-aqueous solutions. But the reactions are the same in most non-aqueous solvents, and importantly, the overpotentials are almost the same in water and in the non-aqueous solvents.","Zhang, et al. (ChemSusChem, 2, 234-238, 2009) and Chu, et al. (ChemSusChem, 1, pages 205-209, 2008) report COconversion catalyzed by an ionic liquid. Zhao, et al. (The Journal of Supercritical Fluids, 32, pages 287-291, 2004) and Yuan, et al. (Electrochimica Acta 54, pages 2912-2915, 2009) report the use of an ionic liquid as a solvent and electrolyte, but not a co-catalyst, for COelectroconversion. Each of these papers is incorporated by reference. Catalyst Today, Volume 48, pages 189-410 November 2009 provides the proceedings of the 10th international conference on COutilization. These pages are incorporated by reference. The catalysts have been in the form of either bulk materials, supported particles, collections of particles, small metal ions or organometallics. Still, according to Bell (A. Bell, Ed., Basic Research Needs, Catalysis For Energy, U.S. Department Of Energy Report PNNL17712, 2008) (\u201cthe Bell Report\u201d), \u201cThe major obstacle preventing efficient conversion of carbon dioxide into energy-bearing products is the lack of catalyst\u201d with sufficient activity at low overpotentials and high electron conversion efficiencies.","The overpotential is associated with lost energy of the process, and so one needs the overpotential to be as low as possible. Yet, according to the Bell Report, \u201cElectron conversion efficiencies of greater than 50 percent can be obtained, but at the expense of very high overpotentials\u201d.","The '134 patent also considers the use of salt (NaCl) as a secondary \u201ccatalyst\u201d for COreduction in the gas phase, but salt does not lower the overpotential for the reaction.","A second disadvantage of many of the catalysts is that they also have low electron conversion efficiency. Electron conversion efficiencies over 50% are desirable for practical catalyst systems.","The examples above consider applications for COconversion, but the present invention overcomes limitations of other systems. For example some commercial COsensors use an electrochemical reaction to detect the presence of CO. At present, these sensors require over 1-5 watts of power, which may be too high for portable sensing applications.","The present invention also considers, for example, new methods to produce or electrochemically react formic acid. Other methods of generating formic acid are discussed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,618,725; 7,612,233; 7,420,088; 7,351,860; 7,323,593; 7,253,316; 7,241,365; 7,138,545; 6,992,212; 6,963,909; 6,955,743; 6,906,222; 6,867,329; 6,849,764; 6,841,700; 6,713,649; 6,429,333; 5,879,915; 5,869,739; 5,763,662; 5,639,910; 5,334,759; 5,206,433; 4,879,070; and 4,299,891. These processes do not use COas a reactant.","Formic acid can be used, for example, in fuel cells. It has been shown that the oxidation reaction of formic acid in a fuel cell can be poisoned by organic acids such as acetic acid, as well as by methyl formate or methanol. See, for example, Masel, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 7,618,725 (Low Contaminant Formic Acid Fuel For Direct Liquid Fuel Cell).","Another benefit of the present invention is that it can suppress undesirable side reactions, such as the generation of hydrogen gas from the electrolysis of water in an electrochemical cell. This hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) can reduce the electron conversion efficiency of a desired reaction, and in some instances may present a safety hazard from the buildup of potentially explosive hydrogen gas. In Monsanto U.S. Pat. No. 4,207,151 (Electrohydrodimerization Process Improvement And Improved Electrolyte Recovery Process), Franke, et al. described inhibiting formation of hydrogen at the cathode surface by adding to the aqueous solution a nitrilocarboxylic acid. One such nitrilocarboxylic acid cited is the complexing agent ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA). The patent also discloses that the \u201cgeneration of hydrogen at the cathode is even more significantly inhibited by including in the electrolysis medium a boric acid, a condensed phosphoric acid or an alkali metal or ammonium salt thereof,\u201d such as ammonium triphosphate. The process improvement method also discloses incorporating at least a small amount of quaternary ammonium cations in the aqueous phase as a \u201cdirective salt\u201d, in order to improve the phase partition extraction efficiency for separating the desired product. \u201cIn general, there need be only an amount sufficient to provide the desired hydrodimer selectivity (typically at least about 75%) although much higher proportions can be present if convenient or desired.\u201d Quaternary ammonium salts can also be used in the process as conductive salts to provide the desired conductivity of the cell electrolyte. A more detailed history of the development of this process is provided by D. E. Danly, \u201cDevelopment and Commercialization of the Monsanto Electrochemical Adiponitrile Process,\u201d Journal of the Electrochemical Society, October 1984, pages 435C-442C. This paper indicates that the hydrogen suppression by the addition of the nitrilocarboxylic acid EDTA was accomplished by chelating Fe and Cd anode corrosion products before they could reach the cathode. The paper stated that, \u201cIn the absence of EDTA, hydrogen evolution at the cathode increased over a day's operation to the point where it represented greater than 10% loss in cathodic current efficiency.\u201d","Rezaei and Taki have recently shown that the quaternary amine tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate (TBAHS) can increase the hydrogen overpotential for the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in a lead acid battery that uses Pb\u2014Sb\u2014Sn positive and negative electrode grids. (Behzad Rezaei and Mahmood Taki, \u201cEffects of tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate as an electrolyte additive on the electrochemical behavior of lead acid battery,\u201d J. Solid State Electrochem. (2008) 12:1663-1671). Water loss has been high in such batteries because antimony from the positive grid can migrate through the sulfuric acid electrolyte solution and be deposited on the negative plate, where it diminishes the overpotential for hydrogen evolution from the electrolysis of water. TBAHS was selected as a possible electrolyte additive material that might be able to withstand the sulfuric acid electrolyte. Rezaei, et al., similarly investigated ammonium hydrogen sulfate salts of a primary, a secondary, and a tertiary amine, as well as the \u201caromatic quaternary amine\u201d 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hydrogen sulfate (BMIM HS). The results were somewhat inconsistent, particularly for the BMIM HS. Also, the addition of these materials to the battery electrolyte was found to increase the grid corrosion rate. (Behzad Rezaei, Shadpour Mallakpour, and Mahmood Taki, \u201cApplication of ionic liquids as an electrolyte additive on the electrochemical behavior of lead acid battery,\u201d J. of Power Sources, 187 (2009) 605-612).","Substituted benzaldehydes were studied for suppressing hydrogen evolution to reduce water loss during cycling by Dietz, et al., \u201cInfluence of benzaldehydes and their derivatives as inhibitors for hydrogen evolution in lead\/acid batteries,\u201d Journal of Power Sources, 53, pages 359-365 (1995).","The addition of succinic acid to the electrolyte of a fuel cell was found to greatly increase the hydrogen evolution overpotential and reduce hydrogen generation in the investigation by Lee, et al., \u201cStudy on Suppression of Hydrogen Evolution Reaction for Zinc\/Air Fuel Cell,\u201d Materials Science Forum, Vols. 539-543, pages 1427-1430 (2007).","One recent paper mentions hydrogen evolution from trace amounts of water as a side reaction during electrodeposition of metals from the deep eutectic solvent Ethaline 200 (choline chloride with ethylene glycol). See Haerens, et al., \u201cElectrochemical decomposition of choline chloride based ionic liquid analogues,\u201d 2009 Green Chemistry 11 (9), pages 1357-1365.","The quaternary amine salt choline dihydrogen phosphate has recently been investigated as a possible solid state proton exchange membrane for applications such as fuel cells and sensors. See, for example, Yoshizawa-Fujita, et al., \u201cA new class of proton-conducting ionic plastic crystals based on organic cations and dihydrogen phosphate,\u201d 2007 Electrochemistry Communications 9 (5), pages 1202-1205, and Cahill, et al., \u201cInvestigation of proton dynamics and the proton transport pathway in choline dihydrogen phosphate using solid-state NMR,\u201d 2010 Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics 12 (20), pages 5431-5438.","In light of the above, there still exists a need for cost effective methods to suppress undesired reactions such as the hydrogen evolution reaction in applications such as electrochemical cells, fuel cells, and sensors, while simultaneously enhancing the rate or yield of the desired reaction(s). In particular there is a need to suppress the hydrogen evolution reaction using additives that do not contain carboxylate groups, since carboxylic acids and their salts inhibit desired reactions such as formic acid electrooxidation or carbon dioxide conversion.","A novel catalyst mixture overcomes one or more of the limitations of low rates, high overpotentials and low electron conversion efficiencies (namely, selectivities) for catalytic reactions, such as those in electrochemical cells, fuel cells, and batteries, as well as overcoming the problem of the high power required for operating certain chemical sensors. At the same time, the novel catalyst mixture can suppress undesired side reactions, such as the production of hydrogen gas from the electrolysis of water. This suppression is accomplished by increasing the overpotential of the undesired reaction. The catalyst mixture includes at least one Catalytically Active Element, and at least one Helper Catalyst. The Helper Catalyst can include, for example salts of choline, or choline derivatives. When the Catalytically Active Element and the Helper Catalyst are combined, the rate and\/or selectivity of a chemical reaction can be enhanced over the rate seen in the absence of the Helper Catalyst. For example, the overpotential for electrochemical conversion of carbon dioxide can be substantially reduced, and the current efficiency (namely, selectivity) for COconversion can be substantially increased. Similarly, the electrooxidation of formic acid in water (as occurs in a formic acid fuel cell) can be enhanced while the side reaction of hydrogen evolution from the water is minimized.","In one aspect, the present invention includes an electrochemical cell with a fluid phase, the cell including a hydrogen evolution suppressor material that includes at least one positively charged nitrogen or phosphorus atom in its structure. The nitrogen could be, for example, part of a quaternary amine group. The hydrogen suppressor molecules can also have at least one polar group selected from the group consisting of \u2014OR, \u2014COR, \u2014COOR, \u2014NR, \u2014PR, \u2014SR and X, where each R independently can be H or a linear, branched, or cyclic C-Caliphatic group, \u2014COOR is not a carboxylic acid, and X is a halide, such as chlorine or fluorine. In particular, the polar group or groups can include at least one hydroxyl group and or at least one halide atoms, but these molecules would preferably not contain a carboxylic acid group or be ionic salts of a carboxylic acid. An example of such a hydrogen evolution suppressor molecule would be a salt including the choline cation, or a choline derivative of the form RRRN(CH)OH or RRRN(CH)Cl, wherein n=1-4, and R, R, and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of aliphatic C-Cgroups, \u2014CHOH, \u2014CHCHOH, \u2014CHCHCHOH, \u2014CHCHOHCH, \u2014CHCOH, \u2014CHCHCOH, and \u2014CHCOCHand molecules where one of more chlorine or fluorine is substituted for hydrogen in aliphatic C-Cgroups, \u2014CHOH, \u2014CHCHOH, \u2014CHCHCHOH, \u2014CHCHOHCH, \u2014CHCOH, \u2014CHCHCOH, and \u2014CHCOCH. The reactants or the products of the reaction can include at least one of the following: CO, CO, CO, HCO, OH, HCO, HCO, (HCO), HCO, CHOH, CH, CH, CHCHOH, CHCOO, CHCOOH, CH, O, H, (COOH), (COO). The electrochemical cell could be, for example, a fuel cell, a chemical sensor, or a battery. The electrochemical cell can also include a Catalytically Active Element, which could be at least one of the following chemical elements: V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Sn, Zr, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Cd, Hf, Ta, W, Re, Ir, Pt, Au, Hg, Al, Si, C, In, Sn, Tl, Pb, Bi, Sb, Te, U, Sm, Tb, La, Ce, Nd.","In another aspect, the present invention includes a method of suppressing hydrogen gas evolution from water that might be present in an electrochemical cell, the method including the steps of: (i) providing an electrochemical cell having a fluid phase and a negative electrode, (ii) providing in the fluid phase a hydrogen evolution suppressor as described above that includes a cation containing at least one positively charged nitrogen or phosphorus group and at least one polar group selected from the group consisting of \u2014OR, \u2014COR, \u2014COOR, \u2014NR, \u2014PR, \u2014SR and X, where each R independently can be H or a linear, branched, or cyclic C-Caliphatic group, \u2014COOR is not a carboxylic acid, and X is a halide, and (iii) operating the electrochemical cell with the negative electrode at a potential that would cause hydrogen gas evolution from water that might be present in an electrochemical cell if the hydrogen evolution suppressor were not present. The electrical cell could be as described in the previous paragraph.","In yet another aspect, the present invention includes an electrochemical cell that includes an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture, in which the addition of the Helper Catalyst improves the rate or yield of a desired reaction, while simultaneously decreasing the rate or yield of an undesired reaction. The undesired reaction may be the evolution of hydrogen gas. The Helper Catalyst can include a cation containing at least one positively charged nitrogen or phosphorus group and at least one polar group selected from the group consisting of \u2014OR, \u2014COR, \u2014COOR, \u2014NR, \u2014PR, \u2014SR and X, where each R independently can be H or a linear, branched, or cyclic C-Caliphatic group, \u2014COOR is not a carboxylic acid, and X is a halide. For example, the cation could contain at least one quaternary amine group and at least one halide or hydroxyl group, but no carboxylic acid group or carboxylic acid salt. The quaternary amine cation can be, for example, choline cations, or choline cation derivatives of the form RRRN(CH)OH or RRRN(CH)Cl, where n=1-4, and R, R, and Rare independently selected from the group that includes aliphatic C-Cgroups, \u2014CHOH, \u2014CHCHOH, \u2014CHCHCHOH\u2014CHCHOHCH, \u2014CHCOH, \u2014CHCHCOH, and \u2014CHCOCHand molecules where one of more chlorine or fluorine is substituted for hydrogen in aliphatic C-Cgroups, \u2014CHOH, \u2014CHCHOH, \u2014CHCHCHOH, \u2014CHCHOHCH, \u2014CHCOH, \u2014CHCHCOH, and \u2014CHCOCH","In still another aspect of the present invention, this application discloses a catalyst mixture having a Catalytically Active Element and a Helper Catalyst in which the Helper Catalyst also functions as a director molecule. The Helper Catalyst\/director molecule would be a molecule containing at least one positively charged group and at least one group for surface attachment. The positively charged group can be, for example, a phosphonium group, or an amine group, such as a quaternary amine. The group for surface attachment can be, for example, a polar group selected from the group consisting of \u2014OR, \u2014COR, \u2014COOR, \u2014NR, \u2014PR, \u2014SR and X, where each R independently can be H or a linear, branched, or cyclic C-Caliphatic group, \u2014COOR is not a carboxylic acid, and X is a halide.","In addition, another aspect of the present invention is a method of operating an electrochemical cell at negative potentials with respect to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). This method includes the steps of: (i) providing an electrochemical cell having a fluid phase and a negative electrode, (ii) providing in the fluid phase a hydrogen evolution suppressor comprising a cation, and (iii) operating the electrochemical cell with the negative electrode at a negative potential with respect to RHE. The cation would have at least one positively charged group and at least one group for surface attachment. Again, the positively charged group can be, for example, a phosphonium group, or an amine group, such as a quaternary amine. The group for surface attachment can be, for example, a polar group selected from the group consisting of \u2014OR, \u2014COR, \u2014COOR, \u2014NR, \u2014PR, \u2014SR and X, where each R independently can be H or a linear, branched, or cyclic C-Caliphatic group, \u2014COOR is not a carboxylic acid, and X is a halide.","The present invention is not limited to catalysts for COconversion or formic acid reactions. In particular, catalysts that include Catalytically Active Elements and Helper Catalysts might enhance the rate of a wide variety of chemical reactions. Reaction types include: homogeneously catalyzed reactions, heterogeneously catalyzed reactions, chemical reactions in chemical plants, chemical reactions in power plants, chemical reactions in pollution control equipment and devices, chemical reactions in fuel cells, and chemical reactions in sensors. The present invention includes all of these examples. The present invention also includes processes using these catalysts.","It is understood that the invention is not limited to the particular methodology, protocols, and reagents, etc., described herein, as these can vary as the skilled artisan will recognize. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. It also is to be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d, and \u201cthe\u201d include the plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, a reference to \u201ca linker\u201d is a reference to one or more linkers and equivalents thereof known to those familiar with the technology involved here.","Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. The embodiments of the present invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non-limiting embodiments and\/or illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale, and features of one embodiment can be employed with other embodiments as the skilled artisan would recognize, even if not explicitly stated herein.","Any numerical value ranges recited herein include all values from the lower value to the upper value in increments of one unit provided that there is a separation of at least two units between a lower value and a higher value. As an example, if it is stated that the concentration of a component or value of a process variable such as, for example, size, angle size, pressure, time and the like, is, for example, from 1 to 90, specifically from 20 to 80, more specifically from 30 to 70, it is intended that values such as 15 to 85, 22 to 68, 43 to 51, 30 to 32 etc., are expressly enumerated in this specification. For values which are less than one, one unit is considered to be 0.0001, 0.001, 0.01 or 0.1 as appropriate. These are only examples of what is specifically intended and all possible combinations of numerical values between the lowest value and the highest value are to be treated in a similar manner.","Moreover, provided immediately below is a \u201cDefinitions\u201d section, where certain terms related to the present invention are defined specifically. Particular methods, devices, and materials are described, although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention. All references referred to herein are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.","Definitions","The term \u201celectrochemical conversion of COas used here refers to an electrochemical process where carbon dioxide, carbonate, or bicarbonate is converted into another chemical substance in a step of the process.","The term \u201cCV\u201d as used here refers to a cyclic voltamogram or cyclic voltammetry.","The term \u201cOverpotential\u201d as used here refers to the potential (voltage) difference between a reaction's thermodynamically determined reduction or oxidation potential and the potential at which the event is experimentally observed.","The term \u201cCathode Overpotential\u201d as used here refers to the overpotential on the cathode of an electrochemical cell.","The term \u201cAnode Overpotential\u201d as used here refers to the overpotential on the anode of an electrochemical cell.","The term \u201cElectron Conversion Efficiency\u201d refers to selectivity of an electrochemical reaction. More precisely, it is defined as the fraction of the current that is supplied to the cell that goes to the production of a desired product.","The term \u201cCatalytically Active Element\u201d as used here refers to a chemical element that can serve as a catalyst for the electrochemical conversion of COor another species of interest in a desired reaction.","The term \u201cHelper Catalyst\u201d refers to an organic molecule or mixture of organic molecules that does at least one of the following: (a) speeds up a chemical reaction, or (b) lowers the overpotential of the reaction, without being substantially consumed in the process.","The term \u201cActive Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture\u201d refers to a mixture that includes one or more Catalytically Active Element(s) and at least one Helper Catalyst","The term \u201cIonic Liquid\u201d refers to salts or ionic compounds that form stable liquids at temperatures below 200\u00b0 C.","The term \u201cDeep Eutectic Solvent\u201d refers to an ionic solvent that includes a mixture which forms a eutectic with a melting point lower than that of the individual components.","The term \u201cdirector molecule\u201d (or \u201cdirector ion\u201d) refers to a molecule or ion that increases the selectivity of a reaction. If a director molecule (or ion) is added to a reaction mixture, the selectivity for a desired reaction goes up. This effect may be the result of suppressing undesired side reactions, even if the desired reaction is also slowed, as long as the selectivity toward the desired reaction is increased.","The term \u201chydrogen suppressor\u201d refers to a molecule that either: (a) decreases the rate of hydrogen formation, or (b) increases the overpotential for hydrogen formation, when the molecule is added to a reaction mixture.","Specific Description","The earlier related applications by Masel, et al., mentioned above, described Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixtures where the mixture does at least one of the following: (1) speeds up a chemical reaction, or (2) lowers the overpotential of the reaction, without being substantially consumed in the process.","For example, such mixtures can lower the overpotential for COconversion to a value less than the overpotentials seen when the same Catalytically Active Element is used without the Helper Catalyst.","In the course of exploring these Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixtures, it was found that certain materials that were being tested as Helper Catalysts, such as salts of the choline cation (N,N,N-trimethylethanolammonium cation) could also raise the overpotential for certain undesirable side reactions, such as the evolution of hydrogen gas from electrolysis of water, for example, in a fuel cell, battery, electrolytic cell or chemical sensor. Without wishing to be bound by theory, the present disclosure provides data supporting the hypothesis that when a monolayer of an organic compound is adsorbed on a metal surface, the presence of the organic compound can change the binding energy of key intermediates of reactions occurring on (or near) the metal surface. This can lead to changes in reaction rates. For example, data herein suggests that the adsorption of a cationic species such as a quaternary amine on an electrode (typically the negative electrode) of an electrochemical cell tends to stabilize anionic intermediates and destabilize cationic intermediates in electrochemical reactions. If the amine binds too strongly, it will simply poison the surface, but if the binding strength is modest, rate enhancement is possible. Aliphatic quaternary amines would tend to be merely electrostatically attracted to a metal electrode surface, since the positively charged nitrogen is sterically shielded by the aliphatic groups and cannot interact directly with the metal surface. For the same reason, quaternary ammonium cations tend to be electrochemically stable across a wide window of electrode potentials. Choline salts in particular are commercially attractive quaternary amines, because choline chloride is a common food additive for livestock, and it is also sold as a dietary supplement for humans. It is inexpensive, is readily available, and presents minimal hazard. One could reasonably expect that quaternary amine cations with structures similar to choline (for example, structures in which one or more of the methyl groups on the nitrogen is replaced with other small aliphatic groups such as ethyl or propyl groups) would behave in a fashion similar to the choline data disclosed in the present application.","According to the Hon review, Gattrell, et al. (Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, 594, 1-19, 2006), DuBois (Encyclopedia of Electrochemistry, 7a, 202-225, 2006) and references therein, catalysts including one or more of V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Sn, Zr, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Cd, Hf, Ta, W, Re, Ir, Pt, Au, Hg, Al, Si, In, Sn, Tl, Pb, Bi, Sb, Te, U, Sm, Tb, La, Ce, and Nd all show activity for COconversion. Products include one or more of CO, CO, OH, HCO, HCO, (HCO), HO, CHOH, CH, CH, CHCHOH, CHCOO, CHCOOH, CH, O, H, (COOH), and (COO). Therefore, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Sn, Zr, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Cd, Hf, Ta, W, Re, Ir, Pt, Au, Hg, Al, Si, In, Sn, Tl, Pb, Bi, Sb, Te, U, Sm, Tb, La, Ce, and Nd are each examples of Catalytically Active Elements, but the present invention is not limited to this list of chemical elements. Possible products of the reaction include one or more of CO, CO, OH, HCO, HCO, (HCO), HCO, CHOH, CH, CH, CHCHOH, CHCOO, CHCOOH, CH, O, H, (COOH), and (COO), but the present invention is not limited to this list of products.","The Hon review also notes that Pb, Hg, Tl, In, Cd, Bi, Zr, Cr, Sn and W are best for formic acid production. Furuya, et al. (Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, 431, 39-41, 1997) notes that Pd\/Ru is also active.","The Hon review notes that there has been over 30 years of work on the electrochemical conversion of COinto saleable products, but still, according to the Bell Report \u201cElectron conversion efficiencies of greater than 50 percent can be obtained, but at the expense of very high overpotentials\u201d. This limitation needs to be overcome before practical processes can be obtained.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIGS. 2 and 3","FIG. 2"],"sub":["2 ","2 ","2 ","2"],"sup":"\u2212"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"sup":["+","+","\u2212","\u2212","\u2212","+","\u2212","+"],"sub":["2","2","2","2","2","2 ","2 "]},"In most cases, solvents only have small effects on the progress of catalytic reactions. The interaction between a solvent and an adsorbate is usually much weaker than the interaction with a Catalytically Active Element, so the solvent only makes a small perturbation to the chemistry occurring on metal surfaces. However, the diagram in  shows that such an effect could be large.","Of course a Helper catalyst, alone, will be insufficient to convert CO. Instead, one still needs a Catalytically Active Element that can catalyze reactions of (CO) in order to get high rates of COconversion. Catalysts including at least one of the following Catalytically Active Elements have been previously reported to be active for electrochemical conversion of CO: V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Sn, Zr, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Cd, Hf, Ta, W, Re, Ir, Pt, Au, Hg, Al, Si, In, Sn, Tl, Pb, Bi, Sb, Te, U, Sm, Tb, La, Ce, and Nd.","Many of these catalysts also show activity for a number of other reactions. All of these elements are specifically included as Catalytically Active Elements for the purposes of the present invention. This list of elements is meant for illustrative purposes only, and is not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.","Further, those skilled in the technology involved here should realize that the diagram in  could be drawn for any molecule that could form a complex with (CO). Previous literature indicates that solutions including one or more of: ionic liquids, deep eutectic solvents, amines, and phosphines; including specifically imidazoliums (also called imidazoniums), pyridiniums, pyrrolidiniums, phosphoniums, ammoniums, sulfoniums, prolinates, and methioninates can form complexes with CO. Consequently, they can serve as Helper Catalysts. Also Davis Jr., et al. (in ACS Symposium Series 856: Ionic Liquids as Green Solvents: Progress and Prospects, 100-107, 2003) list a number of other salts that show ionic properties. Specific examples include compounds including one or more of acetylcholines, alanines, aminoacetonitriles, methylammoniums, arginines, aspartic acids, threonines, chloroformamidiniums, thiouroniums, quinoliniums, pyrrolidinols, serinols, benzamidines, sulfamates, acetates, carbamates, triflates, and cyanides. These salts can act as helper catalysts. These examples are meant for illustrative purposes only, and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.","Of course, not every substance that forms a complex with (CO) will act as a Helper Catalyst. Masel (Chemical Kinetics and Catalysis, Wiley, pages 717-720, 2001,), notes that when an intermediate binds to a catalyst, the reactivity of the intermediate decreases. If the intermediate bonds too strongly to the catalyst, the intermediate will become unreactive, so the substance will not be effective. This provides a key limitation on substances that act as Helper Catalysts. The Helper Catalyst cannot form so strong a bond with the (CO) that the (CO) is unreactive toward the Catalytically Active Element.","More specifically, one wishes the substance to form a complex with the (CO) so that the complex is stable (that is, has a negative free energy of formation) at potentials less negative than \u22121 V with respect to the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE). However, the complex should not be so stable that the free energy of the reaction between the complex and the Catalytically Active Element is more positive than about 3 kcal\/mol.","Those familiar with the technology involved here should realize that the ability of the Helper Catalyst to stabilize the (CO) also varies with the anion. For example Zhao, et al. (The Journal of Supercritical Fluids, 32, 287-291, 2004) examined COconversion in 1-n-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate (BMIM-PF6), but FIG. 3 in Zhao, et al., shows that the BMIM-PF6 did NOT lower the overpotential for the reaction (that is, the BMIM-PF6 did not act as a Helper Catalyst). This may be because the BMIM-PF6 formed such a strong bond to the (CO) that the COwas unreactive with the copper. Similarly Yuan, et al., Electrochimica Acta 54, pages 2912-2915 (2009), examined the reaction between methanol and COin 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium bromide (BMIM-Br). The BMIM-Br did not act as a Helper Catalyst. This may be because the complex was too weak or that the bromine poisoned the reaction.","Solutions that include one or more of the cations in FIGS. , and , the anions in , and\/or the neutral species in , where R, Rand R(and R-R) include H, OH or a ligand containing at least one carbon atom, are believed to form complexes with COor (CO). Specific examples include: imidazoliums (also called imidazoniums), pyridiniums, pyrrolidiniums, phosphoniums, ammoniums, sulfoniums, prolinates, and methioninates. All of these examples might be able to be used as Helper Catalysts for COconversion, and are specifically included in the present invention. These examples are meant for illustrative purposes only, and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.","In general one can determine whether a given substance S is a helper catalyst for a reaction R catalyzed by an active metal M as follows:\n\n","If V2<V1 or V2A<V1A at any concentration of the substance S between 0.0001 and 99.9999%, the substance S is a Helper Catalyst for the reaction.","Further, the Helper Catalyst could be in any one of the following forms: (i) a solvent for the reaction; (ii) an electrolyte; (iii) an additive to a component of the system; or (iv) something that is bound to at least one of the catalysts in a system. These examples are meant for illustrative purposes only, and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.","Those familiar with the technology involved here should recognize that one might only need a tiny amount of the Helper Catalyst to have a significant effect. Catalytic reactions often occur on distinct active sites. The active site concentration can be very low, so in principle a small amount of Helper Catalyst can have a significant effect on the rate. One can obtain an estimate of how little of the helper catalyst would be needed to change the reaction from Pease, et al., JACS 47, 1235 (1925) study of the effect of carbon monoxide (CO) on the rate of ethylene hydrogenation on copper. This paper is incorporated into this disclosure by reference. Pease, et al., found that 0.05 cc (62 micrograms) of carbon monoxide (CO) was sufficient to almost completely poison a 100 gram catalyst towards ethylene hydrogenation. This corresponds to a poison concentration of 0.0000062% by weight of CO in the catalyst. Those familiar with the technology involved here know that if 0.0000062% by weight of the poison in a Catalytically Active Element-poison mixture could effectively suppress a reaction, then as little as 0.0000062% by weight of Helper Catalyst in an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture could enhance a reaction. This provides an estimate of a lower limit to the Helper Catalyst concentration in an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture.","The upper limit is illustrated in Example 1 below, where the Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture could have approximately 99.999% by weight of Helper Catalyst, and the Helper Catalyst could be at least an order of magnitude more concentrated. Thus, the range of Helper Catalyst concentrations for the present invention can be 0.0000062% to 99.9999% by weight.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0109"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":"2"},"Specific examples of specific processes that can benefit with Helper Catalysts include the electrochemical process to produce products including one or more of Cl, Br, I, NaOH, KOH, NaClO, NaClO, KClO, CFCOOH.","Further, the Helper Catalyst could enhance the rate of a reaction even if it does not form a complex with a key intermediate. Examples of possible mechanisms of action include the Helper Catalyst (i) lowering the energy to form a key intermediate by any means, (ii) donating or accepting electrons or atoms or ligands, (iii) weakening bonds or otherwise making them easier to break, (iv) stabilizing excited states, (v) stabilizing transition states, (vi) holding the reactants in close proximity or in the right configuration to react, or (vii) blocking side reactions. Each of these mechanisms is described on pages 707-742 of Masel, Chemical Kinetics and Catalysis, Wiley, NY (2001). All of these modes of action are within the scope of the present invention.","Also, the invention is not limited to just the catalyst. Instead it includes a process or device that uses an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture as a catalyst. Fuel cells, sensors and electrolytic cells are specifically included in the present invention.","Without further elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art using the preceding description can utilize the present invention to the fullest extent. The following examples are illustrative only, and not limiting of the disclosure in any way whatsoever. These are merely illustrative and are not meant to be an exhaustive list of all possible embodiments, applications or modifications of the present invention.","Testing of Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixtures","The following section describes the testing procedure used for an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture as previously disclosed in the related applications cited above. These particular experiments measured the ability of an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture consisting of platinum and 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate (EMIM-BF4) to lower the overpotential for electrochemical conversion of COand raise the selectivity (current efficiency) of the reaction. Therefore, the test can determine whether EMIM-BF4 and the EMIM ion can serve as director molecules and director ions, respectively, for the desired reaction. The desired reaction in this test will be the electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide (typically to primary products such as CO or formic acid).","The experiments used the glass three electrode cell shown in . The cell consisted of a three neck flask , to hold the anode , and the cathode . Seal  forms a seal around anode wire . Fitting  compresses seal  around anode wire . Rotary seal  facilitates rotation of shaft , which in turn causes gold plug  to spin. Seal  closes the unused third neck of flask .","A silver\/0.01 molar silver ion reference electrode  in acetonitrile was connected to the cell through a Luggin Capillary , which includes a seal . The reference electrode  was fitted with a Vycor\u00ae frit to prevent the reference electrode solution from contaminating the ionic liquid in the capillary. The reference electrode was calibrated against the ferrocene Fc\/Fc+ redox couple. A conversion factor of +535 was used to convert our potential axis to reference the Standard Hydrogen Electrode (SHE). A 25\u00d725 mm platinum gauze  (size 52) was connected to the anode while a 0.33 cmpolycrystalline gold plug  was connected to the cathode.","Prior to the experiments all glass parts were put through a 1% Nochromix\u00ae bath (2 hrs), followed by a 50\/50 v\/v nitric acid\/water bath (12 hrs), followed by rinsing with Millipore water. In addition, the gold plug  and platinum gauze  were mechanically polished using procedures known to workers trained in the technology involved here. The glass parts were then cleaned in a sulfuric acid bath for 12 hours.","During the experiment a catalyst ink comprising a Catalytically Active Element, platinum, was first prepared as follows: First 0.056 grams of Johnson-Matthey Hispec 1000 platinum black purchased from Alfa-Aesar was mixed with 1 gram of Millipore water and sonicated for 10 minutes to produce a solution containing a 5.6 mg\/ml suspension of platinum black in Millipore water. A 25 \u03bcl drop of the ink was placed on the gold plug  and allowed to dry under a heat lamp for 20 min, and subsequently allowed to dry in air for an additional hour. This yielded a catalyst with 0.00014 grams of Catalytically Active Element, platinum, on a gold plug. The gold plug was mounted into the three neck flask . Next a Helper Catalyst, EMIM-BF4 (EMD Chemicals, Inc., San Diego, Calif., USA) was heated to 120\u00b0 C. under a \u221223 in. Hg vacuum for 12 hours to remove residual water and oxygen. The concentration of water in the ionic liquid after this procedure was found to be approximately 90 mM by conducting a Karl-Fischer titration. (That is, the ionic liquid contained 99.9999% of Helper Catalyst.) 13 grams of the EMIM-BF4 was added to the vessel, creating an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture that contained about 99.999% of the Helper Catalyst. The geometry was such that the gold plug formed a meniscus with the EMIM-BF4. Next, ultra-high-purity (UHP) argon was fed through the sparging tube  and glass frit  for 2 hours at 200 sccm to further remove any moisture picked up by contact with the air. Connector  is used to attach the cell to a tube leading to the gas source.","Next, the cathode was connected to the working electrode connection in an SI 1287 Solartron electrical interface, the anode was connected to the counter electrode connection and the reference electrode was connected to the reference electrode connection on the Solartron. Then the potential on the cathode was swept from \u22121.5 V versus a standard hydrogen electrode (SHE) to 1V vs. SHE, and then back to \u22121.5 volts versus SHE thirty times at a scan rate of 50 mV\/s. The current produced during the last scan is labeled as the \u201cargon\u201d scan in .","Next carbon dioxide was bubbled through the sparging tube at 200 sccm for 30 minutes, and the same scanning technique was used. That produced the COscan in . Notice the peak starting at \u22120.2 volts with respect to SHE, and reaching a maximum at \u22120.4 V with respect to SHE. That peak is associated with COconversion.","The applicants have also used broad-band sum frequency generation (BB-SFG) spectroscopy to look for products of the reaction. The desired product carbon monoxide was only detected in the voltage range shown (namely, the selectivity is about 100%) Oxalic acid was detected at higher potentials.","Table 1 compares these results to results from the previous literature. The table shows the actual cathode potential. More negative cathode potentials correspond to higher overpotentials. More precisely the overpotential is the difference between the thermodynamic potential for the reaction (about \u22120.2 V with respect to SHE) and the actual cathode potential. The values of the cathode overpotential are also given in the table. Notice that the addition of the Helper Catalyst has reduced the cathode overpotential (namely, lost work) on platinum by a factor of 4.5 and improved the selectivity to nearly 100%.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0123"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"(Comparison of data in this test to results reported in previous"},{"entry":"literature)"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Selectivity"]},{"entry":[{},"Catalytically","Cathode",{},"to carbon-"]},{"entry":[{},"Active","potential","Cathode","containing"]},{"entry":["Reference","Element","versus SHE","overpotential","products"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Data from","Platinum","\u22120.4","V","0.2","V","\u2009~100%"]},{"entry":["this test","(+EMIM-",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"BF)",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Hori","Platinum","\u22121.07","V","0.87","V","\u20030.1%"]},{"entry":["review","(+water)",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Table 3",{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["The Li and","Tin","\u22122.5 to \u22123.2","V","2.3 to 3","V","40-70%"]},{"entry":["Oloman",{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["papers and",{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["the \u2032727",{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"publication"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0124"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"(Cathode potentials where COconversion starts on a number of"},{"entry":"Catalytically Active Elements as reported in the Hori review)."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Cathode",{},"Cathode",{},"Cathode"]},{"entry":[{},"potential",{},"potential",{},"potential"]},{"entry":["Metal","(SHE)","Metal","(SHE)","Metal","(SHE)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"56pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Pb","\u22121.63","Hg","\u22121.51","Tl","\u22121.60"]},{"entry":["In","\u22121.55","Sn","\u22121.48","Cd","\u22121.63"]},{"entry":["Bi","\u22121.56","Au","\u22121.14","Ag","\u22121.37"]},{"entry":["Zn","\u22121.54","Pd","\u22121.20","Ga","\u22121.24"]},{"entry":["Cu","\u22121.44","Ni","\u22121.48","Fe","\u22120.91"]},{"entry":["Pt","\u22121.07","Ti","\u22121.60"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Table 2 indicates the cathode potential needed to convert CO. Notice that all of the values are more negative than \u22120.9 V. By comparison,  shows that COconversion starts at \u22120.2 V with respect to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), when the Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture is used as a catalyst. More negative cathode potentials correspond to higher overpotentials. This is further confirmation that Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixtures are advantageous for COconversion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"sup":["\u22121","\u2212","\u2212","\u2212"],"sub":["2","2","2"]},"Those familiar with the technology involved here should recognize that this result is very significant. According to the Hori review, the Dubois review and references therein, the formation of (CO) is the rate determining step in COconversion to CO, OH\u2014, HCO\u2014, HCO, (HCO)\u2014, HCO, CHOH, CH, CH, CHCHOH, CHCOO, CHCOOH, CH, O, H, (COOH), and (COO)on V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Sn, Zr, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Cd, Hf, Ta, W, Re, Ir, Pt, Au, Hg, Al, Si, In, Sn, Tl, Pb, Bi, Sb, Te, U, Sm, Tb, La, Ce, and Nd. The (CO) is thermodynamically unstable at low potentials, which leads to a high overpotential for the reaction as indicated in . The data in  shows that one can form the EMIM-BF4-(CO) complex at low potentials. Thus, the reaction can follow a low energy pathway for COconversion to CO, OH, HCO, HCO, (HCO), HCO, CHOH, CH, CH, CHCHOH, CHCOO, CHCOOH, CH, O, H, (COOH), or (COO)on V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Sn, Zr, Nb, Mo, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Cd, Hf, Ta, W, Re, Ir, Pt, Au, Hg, Al, Si, In, Sn, Tl, Pb, Bi, Sb, Te, U, Sm, Tb, La, Ce, and Nd as indicated in .","In order to understand the economic consequences of this result, we calculated the cost of the electricity needed to create 100,000 metric tons per year of formic acid via two processes, (i) the process described in The Li and Oloman papers and the '727 publication, and (ii) a similar process using the catalyst in this example. In both cases we assumed that the anode would run at +1.2 V with respect to SHE and that electricity would cost $0.06\/kW-hr, and we scaled the current to be reasonable. The results of the calculations are given in Table 3. Notice that the calculations predict that the electricity cost will go down by almost a factor of 5 if the new catalysts are used. These results demonstrate the possible impact of the new catalysts disclosed here.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0129"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"(Comparison of the projected costs using catalyst in Li and"},{"entry":"Oloman papers and the \u2032727 publication, and a similar"},{"entry":"process using the catalyst in this example)."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Cathode","Anode","Net",{},"Yearly"]},{"entry":[{},"potential,","potential,","potential,","Selec-","electricity"]},{"entry":["Catalyst","V (SHE)","V (SHE)","V","tivity","cost"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["The Li and","\u22123.2","1.2","4.4","0.6","$65,000,000"]},{"entry":["Oloman",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["papers and",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["the \u2018727",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["publication",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Active","\u22120.4","1.2","1.6","1","$14,000,000"]},{"entry":["Element,",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Helper",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Catalyst",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":"Mixture"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"sub":"2 "},"This experiment shows that water additions speed the formation of CO in the previous reaction. The experiment used the cell and procedures described above, with the following exception: a solution containing 98.55% EMIM-BF4 and 0.45% water was substituted for the 99.9999% EMIM-BF4 used in the experiment above, the potential was held for 10 or 30 minutes at \u22120.6 V with respect to RHE, and then the potential was ramped positively at 50 mV\/sec.  shows the result. Notice the peak between 1.2 and 1.5 V. This is the peak associated with CO formation and is much larger than in the first experiment above. Thus the addition of water has accelerated the formation of CO presumably by acting as a reactant.","This example is to demonstrate that the present invention can be practiced using palladium as an active element and choline iodide as a Helper Catalyst.","The experiment used the cell and procedures described in the first test above, with the following exceptions: i) a 10.3% by weight of a Helper Catalyst, choline iodide, in water solution was substituted for the 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate and ii) a 0.25 cmPd foil purchased from Alfa Aesar of Ward Hill, Mass., USA, was substituted for the gold plug and platinum black on the cathode, and a silver\/silver chloride reference was used.","The cell contained 52 mg of palladium and 103 mg of helper catalyst, so the overall catalyst mixture contained 66% of helper catalyst.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0123","num":"0134"},"figref":"FIG. 11","sub":["2","2 ","2 "]},"This example also demonstrates that the Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture concept can be practiced with a second Active Element, palladium, and a second Helper Catalyst, choline iodide. Further, those trained in the technology involved here will note that the choice of the combination palladium and choline iodide is not critical. Rather, this example shows that the results are general and not limited to the special case of EMIM-BF4 on platinum described in the test experiments above.","The next example is to demonstrate that the present invention can be practiced using a second Helper Catalyst, choline chloride.","The experiment used the cell and procedures in Example 1, with the following exception: a 6.5% by weight choline chloride in water solution was substituted for the choline iodide solution.","The cell contained 52 mg of palladium and 65 mg of Helper Catalyst, so the overall catalyst mixture contained 51% of Helper Catalyst.  shows a comparison of the cyclic voltammetry for (i) a blank scan where the water-choline chloride mixture was sparged with argon and (ii) a scan where the water-choline chloride mixture was sparged with CO. Notice the negative going peaks starting at about \u22120.6. This shows that COis being reduced at \u22120.6 V. By comparison the data in Table 2 indicates that a voltage more negative than \u22121.2 V is needed to convert COon palladium in the absence of the Helper Catalyst. Thus, the overpotential for COconversion has been lowered by 0.6 V by the Helper Catalyst.","Another important point is that there is no strong peak for hydrogen formation. A bare palladium catalyst would produce a large hydrogen peak at about \u22120.4 V at a pH of 7, while the hydrogen peak moves to \u22121.2 V in the presence of the Helper Catalyst. The Hori review reports that palladium is not an effective catalyst for COreduction because the side reaction producing hydrogen is too large. The data in  show that the Helper Catalysts are effective in suppressing hydrogen formation. The same effect can be observed in  for the choline iodide solution on palladium in Example 1.","Cyclic voltammetry was also used to analyze the reaction products. Formic acid was the only product detected. By comparison, the Hori review reports that the reaction is only 2.8% selective to formic acid in water. Thus the Helper Catalyst has substantially improved the selectivity of the reaction to formic acid.","This example also demonstrates that the present invention can be practiced with the Helper Catalyst choline chloride. Further, those familiar with the technology involved here will note that there is nothing special about the Active Element, Helper Catalyst pair of palladium and choline chloride. Similar effects have been found for choline acetate and choline tetrafluoroborate.","Further, those familiar with the technology involved here should recognize that the results should not depend on the thickness of the palladium foil. For example, if the thickness of the palladium foil were increased by a factor of 10, the active element-helper catalyst mixture would only contain 11% of helper catalyst. If the foil thickness is increased to 0.5 inches, the mixture will contain about 1% of helper catalyst.","This example is to demonstrate that the present invention can be practiced using a second metal, namely, nickel.","The experiment used the cell and procedures in Example 2, with the following exception: a nickel foil from Alfa Aesar was substituted for the palladium foil.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0145"},"figref":"FIG. 13","sub":["2","2 ","2 ","2 "]},"Another important point is that there is no strong peak for hydrogen formation. A bare nickel catalyst would produce a large hydrogen peak at about \u22120.4 V at a pH of 7, while the hydrogen peak moves to \u22121.2 V in the presence of the Helper Catalyst. The Hori review reports that nickel is not an effective catalyst for COreduction because the side reaction producing hydrogen is too large. The data in  show that the Helper Catalysts are effective in suppressing hydrogen formation.","Also the Helper Catalyst is very effective in improving the selectivity of the reaction. The Hori review reports that hydrogen is the major product during carbon dioxide reduction on nickel in aqueous solutions. The hydrolysis shows 1.4% selectivity to formic acid, and no selectivity to carbon monoxide. By comparison, analysis of the reaction products by CV indicates that carbon monoxide is the major product during COconversion on nickel in the presence of the Helper Catalyst. There may be some formate formation. However, no hydrogen is detected. This example shows that the Helper Catalyst has tremendously enhanced the selectivity of the reaction toward CO and formate.","This example also demonstrates that the present invention can be practiced with a second metal, nickel. Further, those familiar with the technology involved here will note that there is nothing special about the Active Element, Helper Catalyst pair of nickel and choline chloride. The results are similar to those of other choline salts with palladium described above.","Those familiar with the technology involved here should realize that since choline chloride and choline iodide are active, other choline salts such as choline bromide, choline fluoride and choline acetate should be active as well.","Materials:","The catalyst metal black ink was prepared by mixing 5.6 mg of metal black (Alfa Aesar 99.9% metal basis) with 1 ml deoxygenated Millipore water. There were two kinds of counter electrodes used in this experiment. For platinum and palladium catalyst, the counter electrode was made by attaching a 25\u00d725 mm platinum mesh (size 52) to a 5 inch platinum wire (99.9%, 0.004 inch diameter). For a gold electrode, the counter electrode was made by attaching a 25\u00d725 mm gold mesh (size 52) to a 5 inch gold wire (99.9%, 0.002 inch diameter). The reference electrode was a silver-silver chloride electrode with a Flexible Connector (Table 4). Four kinds of electrolyte were used: 0.5M choline chloride, 0.5M sodium bicarbonate, 0.5M sulfuric acid and buffer solution. The solutions were prepared with triple distilled water. Measurements were taken at 25\u00b0 C. under argon gas (99.999% purity) bubbling at 1 atm.","Instruments:","The measurements were made with a Solartron SI 1287 potentiostat in a standard three-electrode electrochemical cell with an Ag\/AgCl reference electrode. The working electrode was prepared by applying the metal black ink onto the gold surface of a rotating electrode. The catalyst was applied on the surface of the rotating electrode by adding 12.5 \u03bcL of the ink to the surface and allowing the water to evaporate under ambient temperature for 60 minutes.","Cyclic Voltammetry:","The electrolytes were first loaded into the glass cell and then purged with dry argon (99.99%) for two hours in order to remove oxygen from the electrolytes. Prior to each experiment, a 20-40 linear sweep cyclic voltammogram at 75 mV\u00b7swas taken between \u22121.5 V and +1 V vs. Ag\/AgCl in order to condition the electrodes and remove oxides from the surfaces. Then several cycles were performed at 10 mV\u00b7sbefore taking the final cycle to insure that the CV had stabilized (that is, \u201cdirt\u201d or other material was removed from the surfaces). Finally, cleaning and stabilizing CV cycles were performed at 10 mV\u00b7s. Later, formic acid was added in the electrolyte and the final concentrations were 0.001M, 0.01M and 0.03M. CV was obtained again to investigate the reaction between formic acid and catalyst surface. In order to ensure the quality of the measurements, special attention was paid to the material cleaning and solution purity (See Quaino, P. M., Gennero De Chialvo, M. R., and Chialvo, A. C., Hydrogen Diffusion Effects on the Kinetics of the Hydrogen Electrode Reaction Part II. Evaluation of Kinetic Parameters, Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics, 6(18): pages 4450-4455 (2004) and Montero, M. A., Marozzi, C. A., Chialvo, M. R. G. D., and Chialvo, A. C., The Evaluation of the Polarization Resistance in a Tubular Electrode and Its Application to the Hydrogen Electrode Reaction. Electrochimica Acta, 2007. 52(5): pages 2083-2090].","Calibration of the Reference Electrode:","Initially, an Ag\/AgCl reference electrode connected to the cell through a Luggin Capillary was used, in hopes that the reference electrode would be stable. However, it was found that the reference electrode would drift when it was exposed to a choline chloride mixture. Therefore, the reference electrode was calibrated against a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) during each experiment. Essentially, a RHE was set up by bubbling hydrogen over the counter electrode and the potential of this electrode was compared to the reference electrode. To measure RHE potential, the working and the counter electrode leads are shorted, then, after bubbling hydrogen under the counter electrode for 20 minutes, the open cell potential was measured until it stabilized. The open cell potential was the RHE vs. Ag\/AgCl electrode. This permitted determination of a reference potential for each run. In the work that follows, the data was plotted against the measured potential of the reversible hydrogen electrode, to avoid issues with the drift of the reference electrode. Four solutions were used, as shown in Table 4. A 0.5M choline chloride solution was compared to three standard solutions: 0.5M sodium bicarbonate, 0.5M sulfuric acid and a borax buffer solution. Sulfuric acid was an internal standard. Sodium bicarbonate and the borax buffer have a similar pH to the choline chloride solutions, so they were good comparison cases.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0158"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 4"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"(Calculated and measured values of the potential"},{"entry":"of the Ag\/AgCl electrode)"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"119pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"Equilibrium potential of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Ag\/AgCl electrode after exposure"]},{"entry":[{},"pH","to the solution, V vs. RHE"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"14pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"119pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Choline Chloride","8.6","0.08"]},{"entry":[{},"1M Sulfuric Acid","1.2","0.27"]},{"entry":[{},"Sodium Bicarbonate","8.5","0.27"]},{"entry":[{},"Buffer","8.6","0.28"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Chronoamperometry:","Chronoamperometry was generally performed by stepping from open cell potential to the potential of interest, unless noted otherwise. The potential mentioned for chronoamperometric data is the potential that was stepped to from open cell potential. Two kinds of electrolyte were prepared for measurement: 0.01M formic acid solution and 0.01M formic acid in 0.5M choline chloride. The potential was held at 0.2 V vs. RHE and the current-time (1-t) curve was recorded with a potentiostat.","Theoretically, formic acid first adsorbs on the catalyst surface and then goes into two reaction routes (Batista, B. C. and Varela, H., Open Circuit Interaction of Formic Acid with Oxidized Pt Surfaces: Experiments, Modeling, and Simulations, Journal of Physical Chemistry C, 114(43), pages 18494-18500): direct formation of carbon dioxide and water; or firstly transferring to adsorbed carbon monoxide and then becoming carbon dioxide. In this experiment, the elevated current density in choline electrolyte was attributed to the choline ion's preference for the reaction through the first route instead of forming adsorbed CO on the surface.","Hydrogen Evolution Reaction Suppression:","The first experiments were to determine whether choline chloride would inhibit HER. Cyclic voltammetry was performed in each of the solutions to see how the hydrogen evolution reaction changed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0163"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},"Everything changed in the choline chloride electrolyte. The characteristic hydrogen adsorption and desorption peaks were not observed. There was a peak at 0.33 V (RHE) that was attributed to the interaction between choline ion and catalyst surface, and a hydrogen reduction peak at about 0.4 V vs. RHE.","Other catalysts such as Pd and Au were also tested. The same suppression phenomenon was observed for the hydrogen evolution reaction.","With palladium catalyst, the bulk hydrogen evolution happened at 0.07 V in sulfuric acid (see ). Hydrogen adsorption happened at 0.21 V and 0.27 V, and hydrogen desorption at 0.19 V and 0.26 V. In sodium bicarbonate, the obvious peaks of hydrogen adsorption and desorption were at 0.20 V and 0.30 V. The huge peak ranging from 0.30 V to 0.66 V was related to the reversible reaction of reduction products with catalyst surface, because the peak increases if the potential is pushed to more negative values. In buffer solution, a hydrogen adsorption peak at 0.19 V and hydrogen desorption peak at 0.36 V could still be observed. In both sodium bicarbonate and buffer solution, the hydrogen evolution reaction started around the same potential as sulfuric acid, but the bulk hydrogen evolution reaction happened more slowly than in sulfuric acid.","In choline chloride, there was a smooth line at the point where hydrogen adsorption happened in other electrolytes and the characteristic potential change of hydrogen adsorption was still not observed. The hydrogen evolution started smoothly below about \u22120.5 V.","Gold showed less activity than the catalysts discussed before according to . In four kinds of electrolyte, the hydrogen adsorption peaks could hardly be seen. In sulfuric acid, hydrogen evolution started at around 0V, in agreement with previous literature (Daniel, R. M., Ionel, C. S., Daniel, A. S., and Mortimer, J. T., Electrochemistry of Gold in Aqueous Sulfuric Acid Solutions under Neural Stimulation Conditions, Journal of the Electrochemical Society, 152(7), pages E212-E221 (2005)). In sodium bicarbonate and buffer solution, the hydrogen evolution happened at the same potential as in the sulfuric acid. In choline chloride, however, the hydrogen evolution reaction started at \u22120.3 V. Therefore, with gold catalyst, choline chloride still showed the strongest suppression of the hydrogen evolution reaction among all four electrolytes.","Examining the Effect of Choline Chloride on the Formic Acid Electro-Oxidation:","The results in the previous section indicated that hydrogen formation was strongly suppressed in the presence of choline chloride. The next question to be addressed was whether the catalyst had been completely poisoned, or whether there instead had been a positive effect of formic acid electrooxidation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0170"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0160","num":"0171"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},"The same experiment was also done on a gold surface.  shows the cyclic voltammetry of formic acid on gold. Formic acid electrooxidation on gold is difficult to study because much of the chemistry occurs below RHE, and it is swamped by the hydrogen reduction reaction. The hydrogen reduction reaction was suppressed in the presence of the choline chloride, and instead a fairly large formic acid reduction peak was observed at about \u22120.3 V.","These results demonstrated that formic acid oxidation and reduction were not suppressed in the presence of choline chloride even though hydrogen evolution was suppressed.","Chronoamperometry:","Another question is whether formic acid electrooxidation would be enhanced in the presence of choline chloride.  shows chronoamperometric scans for Pt held at 0.2 V vs. RHE in choline chloride electrolyte with 0.01M formic acid compared to pure formic acid electrolyte. A potential of 0.2 V was chosen because this potential is similar to that used in formic acid fuel cells.","For both chronoamperometric curves, the current density started out high on the Pt surface. Then, as formic acid was depleted near the electrode surface, the current density rapidly dropped and later become relatively stable for 5 hours. After around 6 hours, the current density with pure formic acid electrolyte became zero and then switched to negative values. The activity of the Pt catalyst with formic acid and choline chloride, however, still stayed relatively high even after 6-hour operation. Results also demonstrated more than an order of magnitude improvement in the measured current density for this electrolyte over that of pure formic acid solution.","Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy (SERS):","In other work, the applicants and co-workers have done surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) to examine choline chloride adsorption on gold films. In all cases, strong peaks were observed at 2976 cm, 1453 cm, 967 cm, 717 cmas expected for adsorbed choline cations. Therefore, it was concluded that choline ions adsorb molecularly on gold as expected.","The above data indicates that the hydrogen evolution reaction is suppressed and the electrooxidation of formic acid is enhanced. Fortunately, both are desirable results. The HER is undesirable during COconversion in aqueous media, because HER competes with the main reaction, COconversion. It is also a side reaction in formic acid fuel cells. Therefore inhibition of the HER would be desirable. On the other hand, formic acid electrooxidation is the main reaction in formic acid fuel cells. Enhancements could improve the stability of the fuel cell and lower the needed catalyst loading.","Predictive Examples of Director Molecules and Director Ions:","The applicants believe that to serve as a director molecule (or ion) for purposes such as suppressing hydrogen evolution in an electrochemical cell, the chemical species should have at least one positively charged group and at least one group for surface attachment (for example, for attachment to the negative electrode). In other words, what is needed is a positively charged species with something to hold the positive charge on the surface, but not to bind so strongly that the surface is poisoned. A number of alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, and carboxylic acids should work, although some carboxylic acids might bind too tightly to the electrode surface, and may thus poison the desired reaction. Similarly, other polar groups in addition to \u2014OR, \u2014COR, and \u2014COOR, such as \u2014NR, \u2014PR, \u2014SR and halides, where the R groups can independently be hydrogen or ligands containing carbon, (with the possible exception of carboxylic acid groups and their salts,) could serve as satisfactory surface attachment groups. For the positively charged group, a variety of amines and phosphoniums should be satisfactory. The key is to add an attached group to bind them to the surface, and the positive group(s) should not be so large as to be hydrophobic. Methyl, ethyl and propyl quaternary amines should perform well. Imidazoliums (sometimes also called imidazoniums) should also be satisfactory, provided they contain an attachment group. A significant aspect of the present invention is the identification of molecules or ions that can serve as both Helper Catalysts (accelerating or lowering the overpotential for desired reactions) and director molecules (increasing the selectivity toward the desired reaction, for example, by poisoning undesired reactions more than the desired reaction).","The sensor can be a simple electrochemical device wherein an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture is placed on an anode and cathode in an electrochemical device, then the resistance of the sensor is measured. If there is no COpresent, the resistance will be high, but preferably not infinite, because of leakage currents. When COis present, the Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture can catalyze the conversion of CO. That allows more current to flow through the sensor. Consequently, the sensor resistance decreases. As a result, the sensor can be used to detect carbon dioxide.","An example sensor was fabricated on a substrate made from a 100 mm silicon wafer (Silicon Quest International, Inc., Santa Clara, Calif., USA, 500 \u03bcm thick, <100> oriented, 1-5 \u03a9\u00b7cm nominal resistivity) which was purchased with a 500 nm thermal oxide layer. On the wafer, 170 \u212b of chromium was deposited by DC magnetron sputtering (\u02dc10Torr of argon background pressure). Next, 1000 \u212b of a Catalytically Active Element, gold, was deposited on the chromium and the electrode was patterned via a standard lift-off photolithography process to yield the device shown schematically in .","At this point, the device consisted of an anode  and cathode  separated by a 6 \u03bcm gap, wherein the anode and cathode were coated with a Catalytically Active Element, gold. At this point the sensor could not detect CO.","Next 2 \u03bcl of a Helper Catalyst, EMIM-BF4 202 was added over the junction as shown in . The device was mounted into a sensor test cell with wires running from the anode and cathode. (It is believed that choline salts or other Helper Catalysts that suppress hydrogen evolution could be readily substituted for the Helper Catalyst EMIM-BF4.)","Next, the anode and cathode were connected to a SI 1287 Solartron electrical interface, and the catalysts were condition by sweeping from 0 V to 5 V at 0.1 V\/sec and then back again. The process was repeated 16 times. Then the sensor was exposed to either nitrogen, oxygen, dry air or pure CO, and the sweeps were recorded. The last sweep is shown in . Notice that there is a sizable peak at an applied voltage of 4 V in pure CO. That peak is associated with the electrochemical conversion of CO.","Notice that the peak is absent when the sensor is exposed to oxygen or nitrogen, but it is clearly seen when the sensor is exposed to air containing less than 400 ppm of CO. Further, the peak grows as the COconcentration increases. Thus, the sensor can be used to detect the presence of CO.","The sensor has also been run in a galvanastatic mode, wherein the applicants measured the voltage needed to maintain the current constant at 1 microamp, and measured the voltage of the device.  shows that less voltage is needed to maintain the current when COis added to the cell. This shows that the sensor that includes an Active Element, Helper Catalyst Mixture responds to the presence of CO.","Table 5 compares the sensor here to those in the previous literature. Notice that the new sensor uses orders of magnitude less energy than commercial COsensors. This is a key advantage for many applications.","This example also again illustrates that the present invention can be practiced with a fourth Active Element, gold.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0177","num":"0188"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 5"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"(Comparison of power needed to run the present sensor to that"},{"entry":"needed to operate commercially available COsensors)"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Sensor","Power","Sensor","Power"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Specific","5 \u00d7 10\u22127","watts","GE Ventostat","1.75","watts"]},{"entry":["Example 5",{},{},"8100",{},{}]},{"entry":["Honeywell","3","watts","Vaisala","about 1","watt"]},{"entry":["C7232",{},{},"CARBOCAP",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"GMP343"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"This experiment used the flow cell described in Devin T. Whipple, E. C. Finke, and P. J. A. Kenis, Electrochem. & Solid-State Lett., 2010, 13 (9), B109-B111 (\u201cthe Whipple paper\u201d). First, catalyst inks were prepared as follows:","For the Cathode:","10 mg of silver nanoparticles (Sigma Aldrich) was sonicated into a solution containing 100 \u03bcL of water, 100 \u03bcL of isopropyl alcohol and 5.6 \u03bcL of 5% Nafion\u00ae (perfluorosulfonic acid) solution (Ion Power). The resultant catalyst ink was painted on a 1\u00d71.5 cm section of a 2\u00d73 cm piece of carbon paper (ion power) and dried with a heat lamp.","The preparation was identical for anode except 4 mg of HiSpec 1000 platinum black (Sigma Adrich) was substituted for the silver.","Both catalysts were mounted in the flow cell described in the Whipple Paper. Five sccm of COwas fed to the anode, and a solution containing 18 mole percent of EMIM-BF4 in water was fed into the gap between the anode and the cathode. At any one time the cell contained approximately 10 mg of silver nanoparticles and approximately 40 mg of EMIM-BF4 Helper Catalyst. A potential was applied to the cell, and the data in Table 6 were obtained. These results demonstrate that steady state production of useful products can be obtained with Catalytically Active Element-Helper Catalyst Mixtures. It is believed that choline salts or other Helper Catalysts that suppress hydrogen evolution could be readily substituted for the Helper Catalyst EMIM-BF4.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0183","num":"0194"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 6"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"(Products produced at various conditions)"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Hydrogen","Carbon monoxide"]},{"entry":["Cathode potential","production rate,","production rate,"]},{"entry":["Volts vs. RHE","\u03bcg\/min","\u03bcg\/min"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["\u22120.358","0","0"]},{"entry":["\u22120.862","1.1","2.6"]},{"entry":["\u22121.098","1.4","50"]},{"entry":["\u22121.434","1.1","250"]},{"entry":["\u22121.788","0","560"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The experiments were the same as in Specific Example 4, except that one of (a) choline acetate, (b) choline BF4, (c) (3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl)trimethyl ammonium chloride, (d) butyrylcholine chloride, and (e) (2-chloroethyl)trimethylammonium chloride were used instead of choline chloride (which is also shown here for comparison.) show CV's taken as described in Specific Example 2 on platinum, palladium and platinum\/ruthenium catalysts. In all cases hydrogen suppression is observed. This result shows that (a) choline acetate, (b) choline BF4, (c) (3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl)trimethyl ammonium chloride, (d) butyrylcholine chloride, and (e) (2-chloroethyl)trimethylammonium chloride are all hydrogen suppressors.","The examples given above are merely illustrative and are not meant to be an exhaustive list of all possible embodiments, applications or modifications of the invention. Thus, various modifications and variations of the described methods and systems of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments, it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed, various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in the chemical arts or in the relevant fields are intended to be within the scope of the appended claims.","The disclosures of all references and publications cited above are expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.","While particular elements, embodiments and applications of the present invention have been shown and described, it will be understood, that the invention is not limited thereto since modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure, particularly in light of the foregoing teachings."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2","sub":["2","2"],"sup":["\u2212","\u2212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":["2 ","2"],"sup":"\u2212"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIGS. 4, 4and 4","sub":"2","sup":"\u2212"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIGS. 5and 5","sub":"2","sup":"\u2212"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sub":"2","sup":"\u2212"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 8","sub":["2","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 11","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 12","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 13","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIGS. 25and 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIGS. 26and 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIGS. 27and 27"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
