---
title: System, method and device for cloud-based content inspection for mobile devices
abstract: A content inspection system provides cloud-based content inspection for mobile devices. The content inspection system includes a content inspection server for receiving a request providing a digital fingerprint of content for evaluation for threats and a data reputation services server for maintaining a threat database. The content inspection system communicates with the mobile device using a service oriented architecture web services based on exchanges of messages between agents of the content inspection system and the mobile device. The content inspection server authenticates the received request belongs to a subscriber, and once the request is authenticated, the data reputation services server operates on the request to determine whether content identified by the digital fingerprint matches pre-existing claims in the threat database. The content inspection system generates a threat evaluation response for the mobile device based on reviewing the threat database for pre-existing claims.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08621630&OS=08621630&RS=08621630
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08621630
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110617
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This disclosure relates in general to data security and more specifically to cloud based content inspection to reduce the burden on a mobile device's resources.","Mobile devices have become ubiquitous. Such devices are very compact and have very limited resources. Because of their popularity and wide-spread use, mobile devices have recently become a target for malicious attacks much as computers have in the past. However, the traditional ways of protecting devices from attacks using client-based scanners put a strain on the resources of mobile devices. For example, processing events and files using a client-based application utilizes a substantial amount of CPU resources, which in turn drains the battery. Mobile devices often do not have processors that are as powerful as processors found in laptops and desktop computers. Besides the strain placed on processors and batteries, storage is another concern. A client-based application stores the signatures for malicious events and files. The signatures require a significant amount of storage capacity. However, mobile devices typically have limited storage capacity thereby presenting a problem for a client-based solution. In addition, the data needed to scan for attacks may be downloaded to the device. Mobile devices normally communicate using a wireless connection, such as a cellular network connection or a Wi-Fi connection. While bandwidth continues to increase for downloading data using such connections, wired connections are much faster. Thus, downloading the data needed to scan for attacks would be very slow and inefficient, and would also place further load on the battery.","Accordingly, there is a need for a system, method, and device for cloud-based content inspection for mobile devices.","To overcome the limitations described above, and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification; embodiments for a system, method, and device for cloud-based content inspection are disclosed.","The above-described problems are solved by moving the content inspection off the mobile device and into the cloud to reduce the burden on the device's resources. In particular the CPU, memory, local storage and battery will benefit considerably. Rich content inspection, including and not limited to anti-virus, anti-spam, information protection, will be delivered while having a significantly reduced footprint on the mobile device.","An embodiment includes a cloud-based content inspection system for mobile devices. The cloud-based content inspection system includes a content inspection system, accessible by a remotely located mobile device, for providing cloud-based content inspection for the remotely located mobile device. The content inspection system includes a content inspection server for receiving from the mobile device a request providing a digital fingerprint of content for evaluation for threats and a data reputation services server for maintaining a threat database. The content inspection system communicates with the remotely located mobile device using a service oriented architecture web services based on exchanges of messages between agents of the content inspection system and the remotely located mobile device, the content inspection server authenticates the received request belongs to a subscriber, and once the request is authenticated, the data reputation services server operates on the request to determine whether content identified by the digital fingerprint matches pre-existing claims in the threat database. The content inspection system generates a threat evaluation response for the mobile device based on reviewing the threat database for pre-existing claims.","In another embodiment a method for providing cloud-based content inspection for mobile devices is disclosed. The method includes providing a content inspection system, accessible by a remotely located mobile device, for performing cloud-based content inspection for the remotely located mobile device, wherein the providing the content inspection system further comprises providing a content inspection server for receiving a request from the mobile device providing a digital fingerprint of content for evaluation for threats and providing a data reputation services server for maintaining a threat database, authenticating, at the content inspection server, that the received request belongs to a subscriber, operating on the request, by the data reputation server once the request is authenticated, to determine whether content identified by the digital fingerprint matches pre-existing claims in the threat database and generating a threat evaluation response to be provided to the mobile device based on reviewing the threat database for pre-existing claims.","In another embodiment, a computer readable storage device having stored therein data representing instructions executable by a computer to implement cloud-based content inspection for mobile devices is disclosed. The computer readable storage device includes providing a content inspection system, accessible by a remotely located mobile device, for performing cloud-based content inspection for the remotely located mobile device, wherein the providing the content inspection system further comprises providing a content inspection server for receiving a request from the mobile device providing a digital fingerprint of content for evaluation for threats and providing a data reputation services server for maintaining a threat database, authenticating, at the content inspection server, that the received request belongs to a subscriber, operating on the request, by the data reputation server once the request is authenticated, to determine whether content identified by the digital fingerprint matches pre-existing claims in the threat database and generating a threat evaluation response to be provided to the mobile device based on reviewing the threat database for pre-existing claims.","These and various other advantages and features of novelty are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However, for a better understanding of the disclosed embodiments, the advantages, and the objects obtained, reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof, and to accompanying descriptive matter, in which there are illustrated and described specific examples of the disclosed embodiments.","As briefly described above, embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing cloud-based content inspection for mobile devices. By moving the content inspection off the mobile device and into the cloud, the burden on the device's resources is reduced. In particular the CPU, memory, local storage and battery will benefit considerably. Rich content inspection, including and not limited to anti-virus, anti-spam, information protection, will be delivered while having a significantly reduced footprint on the mobile device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","120","130","110","125"]},"Accordingly, an agent or client application running on the mobile device  points to the server , e.g., using a URL. The agent merely utilizes a Restful API to communicate with the server . The API allows the agent to be operating system independent, e.g., the agent could be Windows, Lenox, Mac, IOS, etc. The mobile device  sends threads that the mobile device wants the server  to analyze. For instance, the request may be associated with a virus, spyware, spam, data leakage, etc. The service decides whether the request is forwarded to the content inspection services  or whether the request is sent directly to the reputation service . Thus, the user interacts with the same interface regardless of what transpires at the service.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"200"},"The authentication solution implements a subscription model where users of the service register and receive a subscription key . The subscription may be a \u201cflat fee model\u201d or a \u201cpay per scan\u201d model. In the \u201cflat fee model\u201d users can request and pay for a pre-determined number of scans in the specified subscription period. The \u201cpay per scan\u201d charges the user on a per scan basis which then can be billed. The subscription key  is used to authenticate service requests based on use of hashing for authentication. A secret key, which only the service provider knows, is associated with the subscription key  and is used to authenticate HTTP requests received  by the Service. A subset of the HTTP headers  are hashed with an algorithm (making a fingerprint) and then signed with the subscription key . The computed HMAC code  and subscription key  are added back to the HTTP headers  so that the service can authenticate the request  sent by the subscriber.","At the server side, the HTTP Headers  within the HTTP Request  received includes the unique subscription key , threats, and timestamp. The timestamp is applied when the subscriber makes the request . When the server actually receives the request , there will be some time delta. If the time delta is greater than a predetermined limit, then the request will be disregarded. In addition, if an intermediary attempts to change the timestamp, the signature will be broken and the server will be able to detect such interference. The subscription key  is used to look up the associated secret key to perform the same message hash (i.e. SHA or MD5) as the client . If the signature produced by the service matches the signature sent by the subscriber , the server can be assured that the subscriber also possesses the shared secret key, therefore verifying the signature . If the signatures do not match the request is rejected and access denied.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","320","330","310","330","340","360","355","310","360","340","350","310"]},"Accordingly, actual content is not sent for scanning Rather, only a digital signature\/content  is sent. For example, when the mobile device  receives a message with an attached file from an external Content Source , the mobile device needs to determine whether the attachment is safe to access. However, the file can be quite large. Thus, sending the whole file to the cloud  can take too much time; therefore, a digital digital signature\/content  calculated by the mobile device  is provided to the data reputation service . The reputation service includes a threat database . The server, once the request is authenticated, performs a database lookup for the digital signature obtained from the request  to determine whether the file has been analyzed previously. If the results  indicate a hit on a entry in the database, the service may provide a response  to the mobile device  that gives information about the file. If the database does not include a record associated with the digital signature\/content , the digital signature\/content  is scanned for all potential threats by content inspection services . Thus, the response from the service may be an indication that the digital signature did not result in any hits from the database and a response\/request  for content is sent to the mobile device . Once the content has been analyzed, the results  are sent to the data reputation service  and the database  is updated with the threat information from content inspection services associated with a digital signature of content . If the content is threat-free, the mobile device downloads the content .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","420","420","420","410","420","430","432","440","450","434","450"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-4","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","510","520","530","510","590","590","592"]},"Embodiments implemented on computer-readable media  may refer to a mass storage device, such as a hard disk or CD-ROM drive. Tangible computer-readable media is accessed or utilized by a processing device, e.g., server or communications network provider infrastructure. By way of example, and not limitation, computer-readable media  may include, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other solid state memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (\u201cDVD\u201d), or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other tangible medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a processing device.","As mentioned briefly above, a number of program modules and data files may be stored and arranged for controlling the operation of the processor . Thus, the processor  may be configured to execute instructions that perform the operations of embodiments. It should also be appreciated that various embodiments can be implemented (1) as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a processing device and\/or (2) as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the processing devices. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements. Accordingly, logical operations including related algorithms can be referred to variously as operations, structural devices, acts or modules. It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that these operations, structural devices, acts and modules may be implemented in software, firmware, special purpose digital logic, and any combination thereof without deviating from the spirit and scope of embodiments as recited within the claims set forth herein. Memory  thus may store the computer-executable instructions that, when executed by processor , cause the processor  to implement content inspection and data reputation services according to an embodiment as described above with reference to .","The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not with this detailed description, but rather by the claims appended hereto."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numbers represent corresponding parts throughout:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-4"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
