---
title: Octal serial gigabit media-independent interface
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving one or more parallel data streams having a first data rate, multiplexing by round-robin selection the parallel data streams into a single serial data stream, modifying the serial data stream by passing it through a self-synchronous scrambler, and transmitting to a receiver across a transmission line the modified serial data stream at a second data rate that is approximately equal to ten times the first data rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319348&OS=09319348&RS=09319348
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09319348
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110524
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present disclosure generally relates to MAC-PHY interfaces in networking components.","A media access control layer (MAC) may include a serial interface for interfacing to the physical layer (PHY) circuitry of a network interface card (NIC) or other networking components. In computer network systems, there is typically a natural division between chips handling the physical layer, which is responsible for transmitting data on the network, and the system chips, which perform logical operations with data transmitted on the network. Ethernet hubs, routers, and switches typically include multiple ports and may be referred to as multi-port Ethernet devices. Each port typically includes a system chip, which includes an MAC and a PHY. Modern multi-port Ethernet devices typically integrate multiple MACs into one system chip (MAC chip) as well as multiple PHYs into another chip (PHY chip). An interface may be needed on each chip to transfer signals between the MACs and the PHYs.","Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard 802.3u defines a media-independent interface (MII) between an MAC and a PHY that includes 16 pins used for data and control. As noted above, in devices that include multiple ports that each have an MAC and a PHY, it is common to implement multiple MACs on one chip and multiple PHYs on another chip. If the standard MII, which includes 16 pins for data and control, is used for each MAC and PHY on the MAC chip and the PHY chip, the number of pins required for each chip becomes large as multiple MACs and PHYs are included on single chips.","Overview","In one embodiment, a method includes receiving one or more parallel data streams having a first data rate, multiplexing by round-robin selection the parallel data streams into a single serial data stream, modifying the serial data stream by passing it through a self-synchronous scrambler, and transmitting to a receiver across a transmission line the modified serial data stream at a second data rate that is approximately equal to ten times the first data rate.","Description",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["101","104","101","101","101","101","101","101","101","102","103"]},"This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more portions of network  may include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of these. Network  may include one or more networks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["101","101","201","202","201","202","209","210","201","203","204","205","202","206","207","208","205","206","205","206","209","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["101","201","0","7","203","304","323","0","204"]},"In particular embodiments, between the MAC and the PHY, two data signals in each direction are used to convey frame data and link rate information between a multi-port 10\/100\/1000 PHY and Ethernet MAC. In particular embodiments, the data signals operate at 10.3125 Gbps using clock data recovery (CDR) technology to recover the clock at the MAC and PHY interfaces. Due to the high speed of operation, each of these signal pairs are realized as differential pairs, thus optimizing signal integrity while minimizing system noise.","Data being transferred from MAC ports P-P to PHY chip  are first multiplexed together by multiplexer . In particular embodiments, multiplexer  combines the eight channels of data in a round-robin fashion into a single 8-bit data+control channel. The operation of multiplexer  is described in further detail in . In particular embodiments, each of MAC ports P-P operates at 1 Gigabit\/sec, and thus the multiplexer outputs at a data rate of eight times the individual port data rate, or 8G. The 8-bit data+control stream is then passed through 8b\/10b encoder , further described in . In the embodiment utilizing 8b\/10b encoding, because the 8b\/10b encoding introduces 25% additional overhead, in order to maintain the 1G data rate of each of the eight individual ports (the 8G data rate from the multiplexer), the encoder must output data at a rate of 10 Gbps. In particular embodiments, the 8b\/10b encoding occurs before multiplexing, and 8b\/10b encoding occurs after de-multiplexing. In particular embodiments, the 8b\/10b encoding is part of PCS state machines  and . The 10-bit wide data stream is then passed to self-synchronous scrambler (SSS) . In particular embodiments, SSS  optionally utilizes 64\/66 encoding to maintain DC bias on the line, and therefore there is an additional 2 bits of overhead added per 64 bits. In such an embodiment, in order to maintain the same 10 Gbps data rate, the data must be outputted from the SSS at a rate of 10.3125 Gbps. This data is then passed to serializer  and converted into a serial data stream.","At the PHY side, the serial data stream is first deserialized by deserializer . In particular embodiments, the data is then fed through descrambler  that decodes the 66 bit 64\/66 encoded symbols into 64 or 56 bit data symbols. In particular embodiments, the 10-bit wide data stream is then passed through decoder  that decodes the 10-bit 8b\/10b encoded symbols into eight bits of data. The 8-bit data stream is then fed through demultiplexer  to be separated into eight parallel data streams. Each data stream is passed to its own PCS Receive state machine  (although only the PCS state machine for port  (P) is shown), and the 8-bit received GMII data symbols (RXD) are then passed to the physical medium.","The process is identical for data passed from the transmission medium to the network device MAC through the MAC-PHY interface. The operation of serializers ,  and deserializers ,  can be implemented with a single 10G serializer\/deserializer chip (SERDES). Thus, a single 10G SERDES  can implement an 8-port MAC-PHY interface. Utilizing this configuration, a 96-port Ethernet switch may be implemented with only 12 SERDES chips. In current implementations using quad-serial gigabit media independent interfaces (QSGMII) that multiplex four ports of data into a single interface, such a switch would require 24 SERDES chips. The cost Gigabit Ethernet device ASICs is therefore greatly reduced.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["311","312","311","312","0","7","401","401","402","402","0","7","405","405","0","0","1","1","7","7","0","405","306","316"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["306","316","501","502"]},"Because 8b\/10b encoding uses 10-bit symbols to encode 8-bit words, some of the possible 1024 (10 bit, 210) codes can be excluded to grant a run-length limit of 5 consecutive equal bits and grant that the difference of the count of 0s and 1s is no more than 2. Some of the 256 possible 8-bit words can be encoded in two different ways. Using these alternative encodings, the scheme is able to affect long-term DC-balance in the serial data stream. This permits the data stream to be transmitted through a channel with a high-pass characteristic, for example Ethernet's transformer-coupled unshielded twisted pair or optical receivers using automatic gain control. The disclosed embodiment utilizes 8b\/10b encoding, but the disclosure contemplates other encoding schemes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["307","317"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["701","702","703","704","705","705","706","705","706","710","707","708","709"]},"This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system  taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may be an embedded computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, a tablet computer system, or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system  may include one or more computer systems ; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; span multiple datacenters; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems  may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more more computer systems  may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems  may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein, where appropriate.","In particular embodiments, computer system  includes a processor , memory , storage , an input\/output (I\/O) interface , a communication interface , and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.","In particular embodiments, processor  includes hardware for executing instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor  may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an internal register, an internal cache, memory , or storage ; decode and execute them; and then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory , or storage . In particular embodiments, processor  may include one or more internal caches for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor  including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation, processor  may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches, and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory  or storage , and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory  or storage  for instructions executing at processor  to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at processor  for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor  or for writing to memory  or storage ; or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual-address translation for processor . In particular embodiments, processor  may include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor  including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers, where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor  may include one or more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.","In particular embodiments, memory  includes main memory for storing instructions for processor  to execute or data for processor  to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may load instructions from storage  or another source (such as, for example, another computer system ) to memory . Processor  may then load the instructions from memory  to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions, processor  may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor  may write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache. Processor  may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments, processor  executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory  (as opposed to storage  or elsewhere) and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory  (as opposed to storage  or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus and a data bus) may couple processor  to memory . Bus  may include one or more memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory management units (MMUs) reside between processor  and memory  and facilitate accesses to memory  requested by processor . In particular embodiments, memory  includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory  may include one or more memories , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.","In particular embodiments, storage  includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage  may include an HDD, a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage  may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage  may be internal or external to computer system , where appropriate. In particular embodiments, storage  is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments, storage  includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage  taking any suitable physical form. Storage  may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor  and storage , where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage  may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.","In particular embodiments, I\/O interface  includes hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system  and one or more I\/O devices. Computer system  may include one or more of these I\/O devices, where appropriate. One or more of these I\/O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation, an I\/O device may include a keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable I\/O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I\/O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I\/O devices and any suitable I\/O interfaces  for them. Where appropriate, I\/O interface  may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor  to drive one or more of these I\/O devices. I\/O interface  may include one or more I\/O interfaces , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I\/O interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable I\/O interface.","In particular embodiments, communication interface  includes hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example, packet-based communication) between computer system  and one or more other computer systems  or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation, communication interface  may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface  for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system  may communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system  may include any suitable communication interface  for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication interface  may include one or more communication interfaces , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.","In particular embodiments, bus  includes hardware, software, or both coupling components of computer system  to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation, bus  may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCI-X) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus  may include one or more buses , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.","Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium encompasses one or more non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation, a computer-readable storage medium may include a semiconductor-based or other integrated circuit (IC) (such, as for example, an FPGA or an ASIC), a hard disk, an HDD, a hybrid hard drive (HHD), an optical disc, an optical disc drive (ODD), a magneto-optical disc, a magneto-optical drive, a floppy disk, a floppy disk drive (FDD), magnetic tape, a holographic storage medium, a solid-state drive (SSD), a RAM-drive, a SECURE DIGITAL card, a SECURE DIGITAL drive, or another suitable computer-readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission (such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se) to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.","This disclosure contemplates one or more computer-readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor  (such as, for example, one or more internal registers or caches), one or more portions of memory , one or more portions of storage , or a combination of these, where appropriate. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments, one or more computer-readable storage media embody software. Herein, reference to software may encompass one or more applications, bytecode, one or more computer programs, one or more executables, one or more instructions, logic, machine code, one or more scripts, or source code, and vice versa, where appropriate. In particular embodiments, software includes one or more application programming interfaces (APIs). This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments, software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in a higher-level programming language, such as, for example, C, Perl, or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in a lower-level programming language, such as assembly language (or machine code). In particular embodiments, software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Markup Language (XML), or other suitable markup language.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","900","900","900","900","900","900","910","920","930","910","910","910","910"]},"Links  couple servers  and clients  to network  or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more links  each include one or more wireline (such as, for example, Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as, for example, Wi-Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)) or optical (such as, for example, Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)) links . In particular embodiments, one or more links  each includes an intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a MAN, a communications network, a satellite network, a portion of the Internet, or another link  or a combination of two or more such links . Links  need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links  may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .","This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more servers  may each include one or more advertising servers, applications servers, catalog servers, communications servers, database servers, exchange servers, fax servers, file servers, game servers, home servers, mail servers, message servers, news servers, name or DNS servers, print servers, proxy servers, sound servers, standalone servers, web servers, or web-feed servers. In particular embodiments, a server  includes hardware, software, or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation, a server  that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware, software, or both for doing so. In particular embodiments, a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) or other request from a client , the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example, a server  that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e-mail services to one or more clients . As another example, a server  that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores (such as, for example, data stores  described below). Where appropriate, a server  may include one or more servers ; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; span multiple datacenters; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.","In particular embodiments, one or more links  may couple a server  to one or more data stores . A data store  may store any suitable information, and the contents of a data store  may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation, the contents of a data store  may be stored as a dimensional, flat, hierarchical, network, object-oriented, relational, XML, or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store  (or a server  coupled to it) may include a database-management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database-management system may perform read and write operations, delete or erase data, perform data deduplication, query or search the contents of data store , or provide other access to data store .","In particular embodiments, one or more servers  may each include one or more search engines . A search engine  may include hardware, software, or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation, a search engine  may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine , one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources, or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments, a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine  may use a machine-learned ranking formula, which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators (URLs), where appropriate.","In particular embodiments, one or more servers  may each include one or more data monitors\/collectors . A data monitor\/collection  may include hardware, software, or both for providing the functionality of data collector\/collector . As an example and not by way of limitation, a data monitor\/collector  at a server  may monitor and collect network-traffic data at server  and store the network-traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments, server  or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network-traffic data, where appropriate.","This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client  may enable a user at client  to access or otherwise communicate with network , servers , or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation, a client  may have a web browser, such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX, and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client  may be an electronic device including hardware, software, or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation, a client  may, where appropriate, be an embedded computer system, an SOC, an SBC (such as, for example, a COM or SOM), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile telephone, a PDA, a netbook computer system, a server, a tablet computer system, or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, a client  may include one or more clients ; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; span multiple datacenters; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.","Herein, \u201cor\u201d is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, \u201cA or B\u201d means \u201cA, B, or both,\u201d unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, \u201cand\u201d is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, \u201cA and B\u201d means \u201cA and B, jointly or severally,\u201d unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.","This disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly, where appropriate, the appended claims encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of, configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable, configured, enabled, operable, or operative."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
