---
title: Systems and methods for cylindrical hall thrusters with independently controllable ionization and acceleration stages
abstract: Systems and methods may be provided for cylindrical Hall thrusters with independently controllable ionization and acceleration stages. The systems and methods may include a cylindrical channel having a center axial direction, a gas inlet for directing ionizable gas to an ionization section of the cylindrical channel, an ionization device that ionizes at least a portion of the ionizable gas within the ionization section to generate ionized gas, and an acceleration device distinct from the ionization device. The acceleration device may provide an axial electric field for an acceleration section of the cylindrical channel to accelerate the ionized gas through the acceleration section, where the axial electric field has an axial direction in relation to the center axial direction. The ionization section and the acceleration section of the cylindrical channel may be substantially non-overlapping.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08723422&OS=08723422&RS=08723422
owner: Trustees of Princeton University
number: 08723422
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110225
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE-ACO2-09CH11466 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in this invention.","Embodiments of the invention relate generally to propulsion systems, and more particularly, to systems and methods for cylindrical Hall thrusters with independently controllable ionization and acceleration stages.","Propulsion systems are utilized in many low-power space applications. One such type of propulsion system is a cylindrical Hall thruster, which may also be referred to as a Hall effect thruster or a Hall current thruster. Traditional Hall thrusters utilize an anode and cathode to provide for both ionization of gases and acceleration of the ionized gases. Because the same anode and cathode are utilized to control both ionization and acceleration, there are various considerations and tradeoffs between or among power consumption, ionization amount, and acceleration rate. Accordingly, there is an opportunity for systems and methods for cylindrical Hall thrusters with independently controllable ionization and acceleration stages.","According to an example embodiment of the invention, there is a cylindrical Hall thruster. The cylindrical Hall thruster may include a cylindrical channel having a center axial direction, a gas inlet for directing ionizable gas to an ionization section of the cylindrical channel, an ionization device that ionizes at least a portion of the ionizable gas within the ionization section to generate ionized gas, and an acceleration device distinct from the ionization device. The acceleration device may provide an axial electric field for an acceleration section of the cylindrical channel to accelerate the ionized gas through the acceleration section, where the axial electric field may have an axial direction in relation to the center axial direction. The ionization section and the acceleration section of the cylindrical channel may be substantially non-overlapping, according to an example embodiment of the invention.","According to another example embodiment of the invention, there is a method for a cylindrical Hall thruster. The method may include: providing a cylindrical channel having a center axial direction; directing ionizable gas to an ionization section of the cylindrical channel; ionizing, by an ionization device, at least a portion of the ionizable gas within the ionization section to generate ionized gas; and accelerating, by an acceleration device distinct from the ionization device, the ionized gas through an acceleration section of the cylindrical channel. The acceleration device may provide an axial electric field for the acceleration section, where the axial electric field may have an axial direction in relation to the center axial direction. The ionization section and the acceleration section of the cylindrical channel are substantially non-overlapping, according to an example embodiment of the invention.","Embodiments of the invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.","Example embodiments of the invention may provide for two-stage cylindrical Hall thrusters for use in a variety of spacecraft propulsion systems, including satellite propulsion. The two-stage cylindrical Hall thrusters in accordance with example embodiments of the invention may have an ionization stage and an acceleration stage. The ionization stage and the acceleration stage may be operated independently of each other. According to an example embodiment of the invention, the ionization stage and the acceleration stage may be substantially non-overlapping in physical positioning. The ionization stage may provide or support the ionization of gases to generate ionized gases. The acceleration stage may accelerate the ionized gases to generate higher velocity exhaust, thereby generating propulsion for the associated spacecraft.","By providing a first ionization stage and a second acceleration stage, the ionization and acceleration can be decoupled. The decoupling of the ionization and acceleration may allow for operation of the cylindrical Hall thruster with a variety of propellant gases, including those that may be difficult to ionize or that may have a low molecular weight. For instance, an example cylindrical Hall thruster in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention can operate with a variety of gases, whether obtained or derived from a closed source (e.g., container having gas or matter from which gas can be derived) or from an external environment. These gases can include inert gases such as xenon and other gases found in planetary atmospheres, including low molecular weight gases or other molecular gases. The decoupling of the ionization and acceleration can also allow for broadening the operating envelope\/parameters for the cylindrical Hall thruster. Indeed, an example cylindrical Hall thruster in accordance with example embodiments of the invention may be able to operate under various pressures, and with ion accelerating voltages that are different from the ionization voltages, thereby providing a broader possible range of operating pressures and ion accelerating voltages. Furthermore, an example cylindrical Hall thruster in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention may provide for increased operating efficiency by providing narrow ion energy distribution and\/or reducing ion beam divergence. These features and yet other features may be available in accordance with example embodiments of two-stage cylindrical Hall thrusters.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","105","105","105","105","105","105","106","106","105","105"],"i":["a ","b","a","b ","a ","b ","a","b","a ","b "]},"The first cylindrical chassis may house or include an ionization source or device within its interior walls or interior portion. In an example embodiment of the invention, the ionization source or device may be an example electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) ionization source. The ECR ionization source or device may be comprised of a radio frequency (RF)\/microwave source , and a transmission line  and\/or antenna  for delivering or radiating the electromagnetic fields, energy, or waves (e.g., microwaves) generated from the RF\/microwave source . The RF\/microwave source  may include virtually any radiation source, including vacuum tube devices (e.g., magnetron, klystron, gyrotron, traveling wave tube, and the like) and solid state devices (e.g. transistors, diodes, etc.). The transmission line  may include a microstrip, a coaxial transmission line, a waveguide, or the like. In some example embodiments of the invention, the transmission line  can serve as or include an antenna for delivering or radiating the electromagnetic fields or waves (e.g., microwaves). In an alternative embodiment of the invention, the transmission line  can be connected to another antenna  for delivering or radiating the electromagnetic fields or waves.","According to an example embodiment of the invention, the ionization source housed or provided in the interior of the first cylindrical chassis may be separated from the interior of the second cylindrical chassis via one or more dielectric windows . The dielectric window  may operate to prevent plasma or other gases, including ionizable gases, from the interior of the second cylindrical chassis from contacting the ionization source housed or provided in the interior of the first cylindrical chassis . The dielectric window  may be formed of ceramic, glass, plastic, Plexiglas, resins, or another suitable dielectric material. In addition, the first cylindrical chassis may include a magnet  around its exterior. The magnet  may be a permanent magnet, an electromagnet, or any other magnetic device, according to an example embodiment of the invention. The magnet  may impose, provide, or support a magnetic field inside the chassis and\/or chassis \/ceramic discharge channel , where the magnetic field may establish the conditions utilized for electron cyclotron resonance, and may impede the flow of electrons from an externally mounted cathode  to an anode  located inside the channel . In this regard, the magnet  may provide a magnetic field having substantial axial as well as radial components. The magnetic field provided by the magnet  can also enhance ionization of at least a portion of the ionizable gas within the ionization stage , and support an axial electric field within the acceleration stage , as likewise discussed herein. It will be appreciated that the extent of ionization provided by the ionization stage  may be controlled by varying one or both of the magnetic field strength provided by magnet  or the microwave\/electromagnetic radiation frequency of the RF\/microwave source .","Turning now to the second cylindrical chassis , there may be provided a cylindrical ceramic discharge channel . At or near a first end of the cylindrical ceramic discharge channel  closest to the RF\/microwave source  may be ionization stage . At or near the opposite end of the cylindrical ceramic discharge channel  near the discharge opening may be an acceleration stage . The ionization stage  and the acceleration stage  of the cylindrical ceramic discharge channel  may be substantially non-overlapping. A gas inlet  may be arranged with respect to the cylindrical chassis \/discharge channel  (or chassis ) to direct ionizable gas to or near the ionization stage  of the interior of the cylindrical chassis . For example, in , the gas inlet  may be provided through a portion of the cylindrical chassis and the ceramic discharge channel . However, the gas inlet  can be provided in various other positions, configurations or arrangements with respect to the chassis , and\/or the ceramic discharge channel  or dielectric window  without departing from example embodiments of the invention. For example, the positions of the gas inlet  and the RF\/microwave source  could be swapped without departing from example embodiments of the invention. In an example embodiment of the invention, the gas inlet  may include a valve, including a one-way or directional valve, or a through hole without departing from example embodiments of the invention. If a valve is utilized for the gas inlet , then the valve can be controlled or adjusted to direct a desired amount or rate of ionizable gas to or near the ionization stage , according to an example embodiment of the invention. Additionally or alternatively, the flow rate from the source of the ionizable gas can be adjusted to obtain the desired amount or rate of ionizable gas through the gas inlet , according to an example embodiment of the invention. In addition, it will be appreciated that ionizable gas provided for gas inlet  can be obtained or derived from either (i) an external environment or (ii) a container having ionizable gas.","As mentioned above, an acceleration stage  may be located at or near the opposite end of the second cylindrical chassis near the discharge opening. The operation of the acceleration stage  may be supported by an arrangement or configuration of an acceleration device. In an example embodiment of the invention, an example acceleration device may be comprised of an anode  that is electrically connected to a cathode  via a DC power source . In general, the arrangement or configuration of the anode  and the cathode  may create a voltage differential between the anode  and the cathode , thereby providing at least an axial electric field in the acceleration stage . The axial electric field may support the acceleration of ionized gas through the acceleration stage  as one or more ion beams to the discharge opening of the second cylindrical chassis , thereby providing thrust or propulsion for the cylindrical Hall thruster. To provide at least an axial electric field, an anode  may be located inside the channel  immediately prior to the acceleration stage , and the cathode  may be provided external to the second cylindrical chassis near its discharge opening, thereby creating an axial electrical field through the acceleration stage  towards the discharge opening. The magnitude of the axial electric field may be adjusted by adjusting the voltage and\/or current level of an adjustable DC power source , according to an example embodiment of the invention. In an example embodiment of the invention, the anode  may be formed cylindrically or annularly in, near, or adjacent to the inner portion of the ceramic discharge channel  immediately prior to the acceleration stage . The cathode  may supply electrons which neutralize the ion beams discharged through the discharge opening, and localize the anode -cathode  potential drop inside the channel . The neutralization of the ion beams, through interaction with the applied magnetic field of magnet , may result in the anode -cathode  potential drop to be localized within or near the acceleration stage  that is located near the exit of the discharge channel , according to an example embodiment of the invention.","It will be appreciated that the ionization source and the acceleration device may be operated independently of each other. For example, the ionization source may control the intensity, rate, or amount of RF\/microwave power that is provided for ionizing the ionizable gas from the gas inlet  at the ionization stage . As another example, the acceleration device can control the magnitude of the axial electric field provided by the anode \/cathode , thereby controlling the amount of acceleration provided for the ionized gas through the acceleration stage . By decoupling the operations of the ionization stage  and the acceleration stage , the amount of ionization and\/or acceleration can be individually controlled without the need to balance the ionization and acceleration required by conventional cylindrical Hall thrusters. Likewise, the decoupling of the ionization and acceleration may allow for operation of the cylindrical Hall thruster of  with a variety of propellant gases, including those that may be difficult to ionize or that may have a low molecular weight. Example propellant gases or ionizable gases may include N, O, O, or other gases found in planetary atmospheres. Furthermore, an example cylindrical Hall thruster in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention may provide for increased operating efficiency by providing narrow ion energy distribution and\/or reducing ion beam divergence.","During an example operation of the cylindrical Hall thruster of , the RF\/microwave source  may supply microwave power or other electromagnetic energy to transmission line  and\/or antenna  for radiating ions at a frequency resonant with electron gyromotion, which can ionize the ionizable gas or other propellant gas. Ions that are too large or massive to be influenced by the magnetic field provided by magnet  may be accelerated in the acceleration stage  having the anode -to-cathode  (discharge) potential drop. As discussed herein, electrons supplied by the cathode  may neutralize the ion beam and localize the discharge potential drop within the channel , according to an example embodiment of the invention.","These features and yet other features may be available for the example cylindrical Hall thruster described with respect to . Indeed, many variations of the cylindrical Hall thruster of  are available. For example, there may be variations in the configurations in the location or application of the magnetic field and the RF\/microwave source . According to one example variation, ECR ionization of ionizable gas or plasmas may be generated in configurations employing multi-polar magnetic fields. According to another example, the antenna  for the RF\/microwave source  may be positioned or configured radially instead of axially, as shown in . Likewise, in another variation, no dielectric window  may be necessary such that the transmission line  and\/or antenna  may be directly immersed in the ionizable gas or plasma. Many variations of  are available without departing from example embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200","205","205","205","205","205","205","206","206","205","205"],"i":["a ","b","a","b ","a ","b ","a","b","a ","b "]},"According to an example embodiment of the invention, the interior of the first cylindrical chassis may be separated from the interior of the second cylindrical chassis via a ceramic separator disk . The ceramic separator disk  may include or be configured with a gas inlet  to allow for ionizable gas to be provided from or directed to or near the ionization stage  of the interior of the second cylindrical chassis . The source of the ionizable gas may be provided in the interior of the first cylindrical chassis . In an example embodiment of the invention, the gas inlet  may include a valve, including a one-way or directional valve, or a through hole without departing from example embodiments of the invention. If a valve is utilized for the gas inlet , then the valve can be controlled or adjusted to direct a desired amount or rate of ionizable gas to or near the ionization stage , according to an example embodiment of the invention. Additionally or alternatively, the flow rate from the source of the ionizable gas can be adjusted to obtain the desired amount or rate of ionizable gas through the gas inlet , according to an example embodiment of the invention. It will be appreciated that ionizable gas provided for gas inlet  can be obtained or derived from either (i) an external environment or (ii) a container having ionizable gas.","In addition, the first cylindrical chassis may include a magnet  around its exterior. The magnet  may be a permanent magnet, an electromagnet, or any other magnetic device, according to an example embodiment of the invention. The magnet  may provide a magnetic field having substantial axial as well as radial components to support the movement of ionizable gas along a central longitudinal axis towards the ionization stage  of the second chassis . The magnetic field provided by the magnet  can also enhance ionization of at least a portion of the ionizable gas within the ionization stage , and support an axial electric field within the acceleration stage , as described herein.","Turning now to the second cylindrical chassis , there may be provided a cylindrical ceramic discharge channel . In some example embodiments of the invention, the ceramic discharge channel  can also include the ceramic separator disk , which may be formed substantially perpendicular to the ceramic separator disk . At or near a first end of the cylindrical ceramic discharge channel  closest to the gas inlet , may be ionization stage . At or near the opposite end of the cylindrical ceramic discharge channel  near the discharge opening may be an acceleration stage . The ionization stage  and the acceleration stage  of the cylindrical ceramic discharge channel  may be substantially non-overlapping.","As introduced above, a gas inlet  may be arranged with respect to the ceramic separator disk  to direct ionizable gas to or near the ionization stage  of the interior of the cylindrical chassis . In addition, an ionization source may also be provided near the ionization stage . As shown in , the ionization source may be an inductive ionization source comprising an RF power source  coupled to an inductive coil . The inductive coil  may be positioned cylindrically or annularly between the chassis and the ceramic discharge channel  such that the inductive coil generally surrounds at least a portion of the ionization stage . Accordingly, when the ionizable gas is provided through the gas inlet , the RF power source  can operate the inductive coil  to ionize the gas and generate ionized gas. In an example embodiment of the invention, the RF power source \/inductive coil  may ionize the gas via fluctuating electric field strengths.","In addition, an acceleration stage  may be located at or near the opposite end of the second cylindrical chassis near the discharge opening. The operation of the acceleration stage  may be supported by an arrangement or configuration of an acceleration device. In an example embodiment of the invention, an example acceleration device may be comprised of an anode  that is electrically connected to a cathode  via a DC power source . The operation of the anode  and the cathode  is substantially similar to that described with respect to the anode  and the cathode  of , and need not be discussed in further detail with respect to .","It will be appreciated that the ionization source and the acceleration device in  may be operated independently of each other. For example, the ionization source may control the intensity, frequency, or amount of one or more electric fields that are provided for ionizing the ionizable gas from the gas inlet  at the ionization stage . As another example, the acceleration device can control the magnitude of the axial electric field provided by the anode \/cathode , thereby controlling the amount of acceleration provided for the ionized gas through the acceleration stage . By decoupling the operations of the ionization stage  and the acceleration stage , the amount of ionization and\/or acceleration can be individually controlled without the need to balance the ionization and acceleration required by conventional cylindrical Hall thrusters. Likewise, the decoupling of the ionization and acceleration may allow for operation of the cylindrical Hall thruster of  with a variety of propellant gases, including those that may be difficult to ionize or that may have a low molecular weight. Furthermore, an example cylindrical Hall thruster in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention may provide for increased operating efficiency by providing narrow ion energy distribution and\/or reducing ion beam divergence. These features and yet other features may be available for the example cylindrical Hall thruster described with respect to .","It will be appreciated that many variations of the cylindrical Hall thrusters of  are available without departing from example embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["300","300","305","310","315","320","310","315","320","320"],"sub":["2","2"]},"Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
