---
title: User list identification
abstract: Systems, methods, computer program products are provided for presenting content. An example computer implemented method includes identifying, by a data exchange engine executing on one or more processors, one or more user lists based on owned or permissioned data, each user list including a unique identifier; associating metadata with each user list including data describing a category for the user list, population data describing statistical or inferred data concerning a list or members in a given user list and subscription data including data concerning use of a given user list; storing in a searchable database a user list identifier and the associated metadata; and publishing for potential subscribers a list of the user lists including providing an interface that includes for each user list the unique identifier and the associated metadata.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262742&OS=09262742&RS=09262742
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09262742
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110830
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/379,287, filed on Sep. 1, 2010. The disclosure of the prior application is considered part of and is incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application.","This document relates to presenting content.","Providing relevant advertising content to users is generally important to advertisers and service providers. However, implementing a cost-effective way of providing such relevant advertising content can prove difficult in an ever-changing online market. Further, while relevant information for targeting a particular user may be known by one entity, others may not readily have access to or be able to use such information when, for example, making targeting decisions.","This document discusses systems and techniques for presenting content. An example computer implemented method includes identifying, by a data exchange engine executing on one or more processors, one or more user lists based on owned or permissioned data, each user list including a unique identifier; associating metadata with each user list including data describing a category for the user list, population data describing statistical or inferred data concerning a list or members in a given user list and subscription data including data concerning use of a given user list; storing in a searchable database a user list identifier and the associated metadata; and publishing for potential subscribers a list of the user lists including providing an interface that includes for each user list the unique identifier and the associated metadata.","Aspects of the method can include one or more of the following features. The population data can include qualification data describing qualifications for members to be included in a user list. The subscription data can include cost information for subscribing to a user list. The subscription data can include restrictions on use of the user list including restrictions on joining the user list data with other data. The metadata can include data developed by a non-owner of a respective user list relating to cross correlations between members included in a user list. The metadata can include data developed by a non-owner of the user list data relating to inferences about members included in a user list. The developed data can include correlations developed from analyzing data known by the non-owner of members in a given user list. The developed data can be demographic data or inference information developed from data related to members in a given user list and that is known by the non-owner, and wherein the developed data is inferred from data selected from the group comprising similar web sites visited, videos viewed, types of searches conducted, determined related interest categories, determined geographical distribution, and calculated score for a probability to purchase goods or services.","Storing can include indexing the metadata for ease of retrieval based on received queries. The population data can include size of the user list in terms of members, age of data in a user list, recency of updates to a user list, a rating for a user list, a popularity rating for the user list, a number of page views required by members to qualify for membership in a user list, or likely page views for a given member of a user list on a given slice of inventory. The subscription data can include best practices for use of the user list data.","The method can include receiving a query including one or more query terms that describe an audience that a consumer is attempting to target; searching the database for matching user lists based on the query terms; and presenting matching user lists responsive to the query. The received query can include a user list the consumer is currently subscribed to. The received query can include a user list, and the method can include determining user lists similar to the user list included in the received query. The received query can include a set of websites\/pages that are of interest to the consumer, a set of video channels or categories that are of interest to the consumer or a set of keywords describing an audience the consumer is seeking to target. The received query can include use data describing an intended use of data in subscribed user list and the method can include providing user lists that include subscription restrictions that match allow the use.","Searching the database for matching user lists based on the query terms can include using past and current subscription information associated with a consumer that provided the query to filter matching user lists and provide personalized results in response to the query. The method can include evaluating one or more criteria to determine a candidate user list for presentation to a consumer; and presenting candidate user lists as a recommendation to a consumer. The one or more criteria can be based on terms provided by a consumer that describe an audience of interest that the consumer is attempting to target, on historical use of user list data by a respective consumer or on similarities between two or more user lists. The recommendation can be based at least in part on a consumer's vertical, demographic information provided by the consumer, concepts provided as part of an advertising campaign planning operation, web site suggestions made by a consumer or search queries provided by a consumer.","The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.","Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.","Advertisers, publishers, and service providers generally may wish to exchange data for purposes of implementing a meaningful way of providing information and\/or services (e.g., advertising content) to online users. If specific content is determined to be meaningful to a particular user, then the user may wish to access the content, purchase the content, or otherwise interact with the content. This interaction can provide revenue to the content provider (e.g., advertiser, publisher or service provider). If a particular content provider (e.g., advertiser, publisher, or service provider) can collect data about how specific content may or may not be meaningful to users (i.e., in the form of a user list), the collected data may be used by others in a variety of ways. One use relates to selecting targeted content. Other uses are possible, such as in adjusting bids in an auction based, for example, on user lists that indicate specific content is of interest to one or more users. User lists can be published, sold, licensed or otherwise accessed to assist in providing personalized content to the specific users and increasing revenue for a content provider.","User lists can represent specific user information pertaining to predefined categories. The categories can be defined by the data owners. For example, a user list may include data about one or more users which characterizes the users to a category (e.g., homeowner, craftsman, DVD renter, etc.) to allow targeting of the users by, for example, publishers or advertisers. In some implementations, the user lists can be used to target relevant advertising content.","User lists can be generated and exchanged according to a number of rules, and those rules can be used to market particular user lists to specific consumers. The rules can employ methods of assigning users to particular user lists. Such rules can provide a logical categorization of data, information, or services for the purposes of determining which data content in the user lists is particularly relevant to a number of users.","Methods are described for associating user specific information with one or more user lists that are owned or maintained by a data owner. The user lists can be published, in for example, an exchange. Data about the users lists can be provided to allow potential subscribers to evaluate a given user list, as against others or the needs of the given consumer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":"100"},"The user lists can be provided to the data exchange and maintained by the data exchange and\/or by the data owners. User lists can be updated as appropriate to either refine the category\/categories associated therewith or the users that are members of a given list. Management of user lists is described in greater detail below.","The system  includes a data exchange engine  for providing an interface for consumers (e.g., advertisers) and others to discover and\/or license user lists .  shows an example user interface  for a marketplace for presenting user lists (also referred to therein as \u201csegments\u201d or \u201caudience segments\u201d). The presented user lists can be all available, all that correspond to one or more filter criteria, those surfaced based on prior use or data provided from a potential consumer or other filter criteria.  and presentation of user lists to potential subscribers is described in more detail below (e.g., see ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 1C-H","FIG. 1C","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1D","FIG. 1E","FIG. 1F","FIG. 1G","FIG. 1H"],"b":["102","106","108","102"]},"In some implementations, the data exchange engine  can create an exchange between owners of permissioned data and users of such data. Users of the permissioned data can include advertisers that seek to target particular categories of users. In some implementations, the data exchange engine  provides a mechanism for a provider of advertising placement services in targeted online advertising to make available additional third-party data sources to buyers of advertising space. In some implementations, the data exchange engine  can provide user lists to publishers, syndicates, and other data providers for various purposes, including the targeting of advertising content to users.","The data exchange engine  can provide an interface for data owners to securely view and manage their own data (i.e., manage a user list). For example, a data owner can generate and store information in a user list by entering data both manually and automatically. Other entities may be permitted to enter\/maintain information in a user list. Publishers can also extract data for direct sales models or other marketing plans. Although computer hardware is not depicted in the data exchange engine , processors, memory, and other processing components may be included.","The advertising server  can provide advertising content to any number of browsers  via the data exchange engine  or directly. In addition, the advertising server  can be configurable for receiving advertising content requests and providing advertising content to requesting users. In operation, the advertising server  can select advertisements targeted based on one or more criteria and in view of data that is included in one or more user lists. The advertising server  can also provide access to other storage elements, such as ad repositories, in the example shown as ad repository . The ad repository  can be used to store advertising content associated with particular keywords, bidding criteria, advertisers, and targeting criteria. Data storage elements may include any one or combination of methods for storing data, including without limitation, arrays, hash tables, lists, and pairs. The advertising server  can access other similar types of data storage devices, such as user lists , for example.","In some implementations, advertisers can work with data providers to purchase or license user lists for purposes of targeting certain categories (e.g., demographic categories, interest categories, preference categories). The user lists can be analyzed for quality and other considerations. The advertisers can use the user lists for determining targeting criteria or to modify current bids, for example. In one example use case, an advertiser can subscribe for a period of time to a user list. The user list itself may be defined as being associated with a certain category (e.g., Internet shoppers interested in buying a sports car) of users. Requests for advertisements can be received by the advertising system, and the data exchange can be used to determine for a given user to which user lists the user is subscribed. In a real-time bid example, the advertisers that have subscribed to the user lists may be presented with the request (and necessarily information that the users satisfy the category(ies) associated with the user list(s)), and then may adjust\/submit bids in consideration of such information. This is just one example of a use for the user list data.","The third-party servers  can provide third-party services to any number of browsers  via the data exchange engine . For example, the third-party servers  can provide web services, advertising services, or external APIs (application programming interfaces) to connect to a third-party server. The third-party servers  can include, for example, one or more servers executing a search engine application program. In some implementations, the third-party servers  can include a related information server or an advertising server. Third-party servers  can track user activity using, for example, cookies .","The browser  represents a user browsing the Internet. The browser  can access any website available on a network belonging to a person, or any other type of entity such as a company, enterprise, etc. For example, in  browser  can access a service or website. The service or website can be hosted by the third-party server , or alternatively by another server associated with system . A user can employ the browser  to search the Internet for services, information, or merchandise. The browser  can track user activity using cookies .","In some implementations, the advertising server  includes one or more advertisement customizers (not shown) operable to customize advertising content according to one or more user lists. In particular, an advertisement customizer can customize the display criteria, language, or other content of an advertisement according to user list information. For example, if a particular user list includes user-entered searching pertaining to purchasing a vehicle, the advertising server  can use the user-entered searching information (e.g., a cookie stored from performing a web search in a browser) to customize the display or content of an advertisement. The customization can, for example, provide the user with a more relevant advertisement.","In operation and for each generated user list, the system  can store, for example in a table-based repository, a list of user lists for which a particular user belongs. The table-based repository can, for example, be represented by a proprietary distributed storage system having a multi-dimensional sorted map as described in the paper entitled \u201cBigtable: A Distributed Storage System for Structured Data\u201d by Fay Chang, Jeffrey Dean, Sanjay Ghemawat, Wilson C. Hsieh, Deborah A. Wallach, Mike Burrows, Tushar Chandra, Andrew Fikes, and Robert E. Gruber, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The table-based repository represents a distributed storage system for managing structured data that is designed to scale to a very large size (e.g., petabytes of data across thousands of commodity servers). Each user list in the proprietary database can be included in one or more tables having multiple dimensions (one of which may be a field for time, allowing for versioning and garbage collection).","The system  can provide an index to the table-based repository. The index can be represented by, for example, a user cookie. For example, the table-based repository may be a set of rows and columns where the rows represent cookies corresponding to particular users and the columns represent a characterization associated with the user list, such as particular categories, keywords, websites, or other descriptive data.","At some point, the user browser  can make a request for advertising content from the advertising server  or the third-party server . The data exchange engine  can retrieve a list of user lists from the table-based repository associated with a received request and append or otherwise associate the list of user lists to the request. Any subsequent processing of the request can use the list, for example, for targeting, advertising customization and bid generation. The list of user lists or portions of the list can also be transmitted to a real-time bidder to provide the bidder with pertinent information about one or more users. Other uses are possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["104","200","104","102","104","200","104","200","102","102","104","102","104","212"]},"In this example, each row represents a single user. A user identifier (not shown) can be used to identify a user. The user identifier can be a user identifier associated with a user in a domain associated with the entity that owns\/provides the data (i.e., a local identifier). In some implementations, such as those where plural different entities provide user lists that are stored in a single table, the user identifier can be of the form of a global identifier associated with the user, such as an identifier that the advertising system assigns to the user. Global identifiers can be associated with \u201clocal\u201d entity identifiers and mapped such that requests that include a local entity identifier can be associated with the global identifier and hence, can be associated with user lists associated with plural entities. Other techniques can be used to identify users, such as cookie-matching technology to allow for the mapping of local identifiers to global identifiers.","Each column represents a user list that includes a characterization (sometimes referred to as a definition), such as by way of a particular category(ies), keyword(s), website(s), demographic(s), interest(s), or other user classification. Example characterizations in the table  include sports cars, washing machines, and scuba diving. The characterization can include descriptors, such as keywords, that describe a given category. Each characterization may embody the combination of plural separate categories or subject matter. For example, the characterization sports cars, may embody those individuals that visited a web site that were interested in cars and those that were particularly interested in sports cars (which themselves represent two different categories). In some implementations, logical combinations of categories or subject matter can be used to define the characterization for a given user list.","In some implementations, each entry in the table (i.e., the intersection of a row and a column) represents whether the user is a member of a given list. For example, entry  indicates that user A is interested in or associated with a user list that has the characterization of sports cars. In some implementations, other data may be included in the entry. Other data can include geo-location data, cookie data, further personal data related to the user and known by the data owner, example web pages or example content (i.e., content surfed by the user), keyword searches, location data, website data, side vertical data, page vertical data, formatted text strings (where the data owner may include data related to the particular user in accordance with a definition set by the data owner (e.g., a series of bits that are set or not depending on the individual user's data for things like demographics, other interests, or other data that is different from the characterization but may be of use in targeting information to the particular user)) or other data. For example, entry  includes an indication that user C is not only a member of the user list associated with category C (scuba diving) but also that the user is located at a particular location (e.g., lives in Portland) and is a member of certain demographic groups (e.g., is male). Other information can be included so as to provide more relevant available information to potential consumers of a given list.","Identification of user lists to which a person belongs can be made by the data exchange engine  when a cookie or other user identifiable information is received. In some implementations, the data exchange engine  uses the cookie or user identifying information as an index to the user lists . For example, the data exchange engine  can cross reference received user identifier data with particular user list information to determine an association between user list data and the cookie data\/user information. As shown in user lists , a user (A) showed an interest in user list A which is characterized by the keywords \u201csports cars\u201d. For example, the user may, as part of a session with a given data provider, have provided a request to view sports cars made by Lexus such as providing a keyword search for \u201cLexus sports cars.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1A"],"b":["300","300","102"]},"At stage , one or more user lists are identified based on owned or permissioned data. The user lists may be user lists  and may be provided by one or more entities to the data exchange engine . The user lists may be generated by the data exchange engine , such as from data provided from data owners or users. Each user list can include a user list identifier. The user list identifier can be determined, for example, by the data owner, or, for example, by another entity, such as the data exchange engine .","At stage , metadata is associated with each user list, including data describing one or more categories for a user list, population data describing statistical or inferred data concerning a list or members in a given user list, and subscription data including data concerning use of a given user list. Metadata can be associated with a user list, for example, by a data owner. As another example and as described in more detail below, metadata can be associated with a user list by a non-owner of the user list.","The data describing a category for a user list can be, for example, a category name, such as \u201ctravel\u201d, \u201cluxury goods\u201d, or \u201csports\u201d. A given user list can have multiple associated categories. For example, a given user list can have associated categories of \u201cluxury\u201d and \u201cautomobile\u201d.","Population data can include, for example, statistical or inferred data concerning a user list. For example, population data can include a date of creation of the user list. As another example, population data can include data concerning one or more ratings or reviews for a user list. For example, an average review score or a popularity rating can be associated with a user list. As another example, user review comments can be associated with a user list.","Population data can also include information describing a schema or format of the user list data. For example, population data can include information indicating a number of fields included in the user list data and a data type for each field. For fields of an enumerated type, population data can include indications of possible values allowed for the field. For fields of a numerical data type, population data can include minimum and maximum values allowed for the field.","Population data can include statistical or inferred data concerning members in a given user list. For example, population data for a given user list can include a count of the number of members in the user list, data indicating a recency of updates to the user list (e.g., date of last member addition, date of last member deletion), and other statistics regarding data concerning members in the user list. For example, for an enumerated field included in user list data, population data can include one or more statistics which indicate a distribution of values across user list members for the field. For a numerical field included in user list data, population data can include statistics such as minimum and maximum stored values, a mean value, or a median value. In some implementations, population data can also include one or more statistics indicating likely page views for a given member of a user list on a given slice of inventory.","Population data can include qualification data describing qualifications for members to be included in a user list. For example, qualification data can include a number of page views required by a member to qualify for membership in a user list. As another example, qualification data can include criteria indicating a set of sites to be visited by a member or one or more types of sites to be visited by a member for a member to qualify for inclusion in a user list. As yet another example, qualification data can include one or more search keywords to be entered by a member for a member to qualify for inclusion in a user list. Qualification data can also indicate criteria for a member to be excluded, or \u201cdropped\u201d from a user list. For example, a criterion can specify that a member is removed from a given user list if they do not enter any search keywords associated with the user list during a given time period (e.g., two weeks).","As mentioned, metadata for a user list can include, in addition to population data, subscription data including data concerning use of a given user list. For example, subscription data can include cost information for subscribing to a user list. In some implementations, cost information can be described in terms of a cost per one thousand impressions (CPM). That is, cost information can indicate a cost for using a user list to generate one thousand impressions.","Subscription data can also include restrictions on use of the user list. For example, a data owner can indicate that user list data for a given user list may not be combined with other data, or that the user list data may not be combined with certain types of other data (e.g., competitor data, or data having a particular subject matter or of a particular category). A data owner can specify that user list data is applicable to or restricted to use associated with a particular geographic region. Subscription data can indicate whether use restrictions are negotiable or non-negotiable.","Subscription data can also include descriptions of best practices for use of a user list. For example, subscription data can include descriptions of particular uses of user list data that have been demonstrated, through testing, to be effective. As a more particular example, subscription data can include descriptions of other types of data that have been effective when combined with given user list data.","As mentioned, metadata associated with a user list can include data developed by a non-owner of the user list. For example, the developed data can include data relating to cross correlations between members included in the user list. For example, in reference to , the data exchange engine  (or the advertising server ) can develop correlations by analyzing data known by the data exchange engine  about members in a given user list owned by a data owner. The data exchange engine  can perform analysis if given permission by the data owner.","Developed data can also include data relating to inferences about members included in a user list. For example, in some implementations, the data exchange engine  can infer data about members included in a user list, such as demographic data (e.g., geographical distribution), data about sites visited, data indicating videos viewed by members in a user list, types of searches conducted by members in the user list, determined related interest categories of members in the user list, and other data or statistics about members in a user list, such as calculated scores each indicating a probability that a given member is interested in purchasing goods or services.","At stage , a user list identifier and the associated metadata is stored in a searchable database. Storing can include indexing the metadata for ease of retrieval based on received queries. Storing can be performed, for example, by the data exchange engine .","At stage , a list of the user lists is published for potential subscribers. For example, publishing can include providing an interface that includes, for each user list, the unique identifier and the associated metadata. As a more particular example, the user interface  illustrated in  can be presented to potential subscribers. The user interface  includes an available user lists area  for presenting information about user lists to which potential subscribers can subscribe. As mentioned, user lists may be referred to (such as shown on ) as \u201csegments\u201d or \u201caudience segments\u201d.","In the example shown, for each available user list, a user list name , a provider  (e.g., owner), a subscription cost  (e.g., in terms of CPM), one or more categories , an average review , and a user count  can be displayed. For example, an available user list  has a name of \u201cAdventure travel in-market\u201d, is provided by a provider named \u201cUser5\u201d, has a cost of 2.25 CPM, is included in the category \u201ctravel\u201d, has an average review of four out of five \u201cstars\u201d, and has one hundred fifty four thousand users.","The user interface  includes a filters area  which a subscriber can use to filter the user lists displayed in the available user lists area  to show user lists matching one or more criteria. For example, criteria  specifies to show user lists for which a category includes \u201ctravel\u201d and for which a subscription cost is less than or equal to five dollars per one thousand impressions. The subscriber can edit the criteria  or define new criteria by selecting a control  to display a filters interface. In some implementations, one or more \u201cquick filters\u201d may be displayed based on characteristics of a subscriber's currently subscribed-to user lists or other historical data (e.g., based on prior use, popularity or prior viewing history). For example, a quick-filter  may be selected to display available user lists that are comparable to one or more of a subscriber's currently subscribed-to user lists but at a lower subscription cost.","A subscriber may also search for available user lists. For example, a subscriber may search for available user lists using a search interface (not shown). Searching for user lists is described in more detail below with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1A"],"b":["400","400","102"]},"At stage , a query including one or more query terms that describes an audience that a consumer is attempting to target is received. The consumer can be, for example, a potential subscriber of a user list. The one or more query terms can be received, for example, from a user interface, such as from a filters interface (e.g., a filters interface displayed in response to selection of the control  shown on ), or from a search control displayed on a search interface. The one or more query terms can include one or more Boolean operators, such as AND, OR, or NOT.","The query terms can represent a set of keywords describing an audience the consumer is seeking to target. The received query terms can include or can be based on one or more user lists that the consumer is currently subscribed to. The received query terms can include or can be based on a set of websites, pages, video channels, or other content that is of interest to the consumer.","The query terms can also be based on one or more of a user list category, population data, subscription data, or on other metadata described above with respect to . The query terms can be based on demographics, such as defining age, gender, education level, income level, or geographic location criteria. The query terms can include or can be based on a description of an intended use of a user list.","At stage , a database is searched for matching user lists based on the query terms. For example, the data exchange engine  shown in  can search an indexed database which includes user list identifiers and associated user list metadata for user lists which match some or all of the query terms. If the query terms include use data describing an intended use of data in a subscribed user list, searching can include searching for user lists that include subscription restrictions that match the use. For example, a consumer can search for user lists for which a data owner allows the combining of the user list data with other data. If the query term includes or is based on one or more user lists that the consumer is currently subscribed to, searching can include determining user lists similar to the one or more user lists referenced in the query.","In some implementations, search results may be based on information that is known about the consumer (e.g., personalized search results may be identified). For example, search results may be based on a consumer's past behavior, existing or previously owned or licensed user lists, or on past and current user list subscription information.","At stage , matching user lists responsive to the query are presented. For example, matching user lists can be presented in a user interface such as in an interface similar to the available user lists area  shown in .","In addition to allowing a consumer to search for user lists, user lists may be recommended to a consumer.  is a flow diagram of an example process  for recommending user lists. The process  may be executed, for example, by the data exchange engine  shown in .","At stage , one or more criteria are evaluated to determine one or more candidate user lists for presentation to a consumer. For example, the evaluated criteria can be based on one or more terms provided by a consumer that describe an audience of interest that the consumer is attempting to target. As another example, the evaluated criteria can be based on historical use of user list data by a respective consumer, such as prior use or prior purchase of user list data.","The evaluated criteria can be based on similarities between two or more user lists. For example, the evaluated criteria can represent a condition identifying user lists similar to user lists that the consumer is subscribed to. Other examples include criteria representing conditions that identify user lists associated with consumers similar to the consumer, such as user lists similar consumers have used, have provided, have subscribed to, or have rated highly.","The evaluated criteria can be based on other data. For example, in some implementations, the evaluation criteria can be based on a consumer's vertical, on demographic information provided by the consumer, on concepts provided as part of an advertising campaign planning operation, on web site suggestions made by a consumer, or on search queries provided by a consumer.","The evaluated criteria can be based on actions taken by a user in another application. For example, a user may have used another application to search for sites based on certain criteria, such as sites related to certain demographics, sites visited by users who tend to visit a given set of sites, or sites visited by users who tend to use certain search keywords. Some or all of the criteria used by the consumer to search for sites can be received and can be used to determine one or more candidate user lists for the consumer. As another example, in some implementations, criteria used to determine one or more candidate user lists can be used by the site-search application.","At stage , candidate user lists are presented as a recommendation to a consumer. For example, one or more candidate user lists can be presented in a user interface. For example, candidate user lists can be presented as a recommendation on the marketplace user interface  shown in . A recommendation  for a user list  named \u201cInternational business travelers\u201d is displayed. The recommendation  displays a rating for the user list  (e.g., four out of five stars), a subscription cost for the user list  (e.g., $4.75 CPM), and the provider of the user list  (e.g., \u201cUser5\u201d). The recommendation  indicates that the user list  is based on a \u201cbusiness travelers\u201d user list with a subscription cost of $5.15 CPM provided by \u201cUser6\u201d. The recommendation  includes a control  which can be selected to subscribe to the user list . A control  can be selected to dismiss the recommendation . A recommendation  for a user list  indicates that the user list  is not yet rated, has a subscription cost of $2.5 CPM, is provided by \u201cUser7\u201d, was added this month, and is based on the category of \u201ctravel\u201d. A control  can be selected to subscribe to the user list .","Recommendations can be presented on other types of user interfaces. For example,  illustrates a publisher user interface . The publisher user interface  displays, in a user list area , user lists that a publisher owns. A publisher can define a new user list using a control . A recommendations area  includes recommendations for user lists which are similar to the user lists presented in the user lists area , or which are otherwise recommended to the publisher based on other criteria.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","750","700","750"]},"Computing device  includes a processor , memory , a storage device , a high-speed interface  connecting to memory  and high-speed expansion ports , and a low speed interface  connecting to low speed bus  and storage device . Each of the components , , , , , and , are interconnected using various busses, and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor  can process instructions for execution within the computing device , including instructions stored in the memory  or on the storage device  to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input\/output device, such as display  coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations, multiple processors and\/or multiple buses may be used, as appropriate, along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also, multiple computing devices  may be connected, with each device providing portions of the necessary operations (e.g., as a server bank, a group of blade servers, or a multi-processor system).","The memory  stores information within the computing device . In one implementation, the memory  is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation, the memory  is a non-volatile memory unit or units. The memory  may also be another form of computer-readable medium, such as a magnetic or optical disk.","The storage device  is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation, the storage device  may be or contain a computer-readable medium, such as a floppy disk device, a hard disk device, an optical disk device, or a tape device, a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device, or an array of devices, including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that, when executed, perform one or more methods, such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer- or machine-readable medium, such as the memory , the storage device , or memory on processor .","The high speed controller  manages bandwidth-intensive operations for the computing device , while the low speed controller  manages lower bandwidth-intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation, the high-speed controller  is coupled to memory , display  (e.g., through a graphics processor or accelerator), and to high-speed expansion ports , which may accept various expansion cards (not shown). In the implementation, low-speed controller  is coupled to storage device  and low-speed expansion port . The low-speed expansion port, which may include various communication ports (e.g., USB, Bluetooth, Ethernet, wireless Ethernet) may be coupled to one or more input\/output devices, such as a keyboard, a pointing device, a scanner, or a networking device such as a switch or router, e.g., through a network adapter.","The computing device  may be implemented in a number of different forms, as shown in the figure. For example, it may be implemented as a standard server , or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition, it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively, components from computing device  may be combined with other components in a mobile device (not shown), such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device , , and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices ,  communicating with each other.","Computing device  includes a processor , memory , an input\/output device such as a display , a communication interface , and a transceiver , among other components. The device  may also be provided with a storage device, such as a microdrive or other device, to provide additional storage. Each of the components , , , , , and , are interconnected using various buses, and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.","The processor  can execute instructions within the computing device , including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide, for example, for coordination of the other components of the device , such as control of user interfaces, applications run by device , and wireless communication by device .","Processor  may communicate with a user through control interface  and display interface  coupled to a display . The display  may be, for example, a TFT LCD (Thin-Film-Transistor Liquid Crystal Display) or an OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) display, or other appropriate display technology. The display interface  may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display  to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface  may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition, an external interface  may be provide in communication with processor , so as to enable near area communication of device  with other devices. External interface  may provide, for example, for wired communication in some implementations, or for wireless communication in other implementations, and multiple interfaces may also be used.","The memory  stores information within the computing device . The memory  can be implemented as one or more of a computer-readable medium or media, a volatile memory unit or units, or a non-volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory  may also be provided and connected to device  through expansion interface , which may include, for example, a SIMM (Single In Line Memory Module) card interface. Such expansion memory  may provide extra storage space for device , or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically, expansion memory  may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above, and may include secure information also. Thus, for example, expansion memory  may be provide as a security module for device , and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition, secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards, along with additional information, such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non-hackable manner.","The memory may include, for example, flash memory and\/or NVRAM memory, as discussed below. In one implementation, a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that, when executed, perform one or more methods, such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer- or machine-readable medium, such as the memory , expansion memory , or memory on processor  that may be received, for example, over transceiver  or external interface .","Device  may communicate wirelessly through communication interface , which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface  may provide for communications under various modes or protocols, such as GSM voice calls, SMS, EMS, or MMS messaging, CDMA, TDMA, PDC, WCDMA, CDMA2000, or GPRS, among others. Such communication may occur, for example, through radio-frequency transceiver . In addition, short-range communication may occur, such as using a Bluetooth, WiFi, or other such transceiver (not shown). In addition, GPS (Global Positioning System) receiver module  may provide additional navigation- and location-related wireless data to device , which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .","Device  may also communicate audibly using audio codec , which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec  may likewise generate audible sound for a user, such as through a speaker, e.g., in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls, may include recorded sound (e.g., voice messages, music files, etc.) and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .","The computing device  may be implemented in a number of different forms, as shown in the figure. For example, it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone , personal digital assistant, or other similar mobile device.","Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry, integrated circuitry, specially designed ASICs (application specific integrated circuits), computer hardware, firmware, software, and\/or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and\/or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor, which may be special or general purpose, coupled to receive data and instructions from, and to transmit data and instructions to, a storage system, at least one input device, and at least one output device.","These computer programs (also known as programs, software, software applications or code) include machine instructions for a programmable processor, and can be implemented in a high-level procedural and\/or object-oriented programming language, and\/or in assembly\/machine language. As used herein, the terms \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d refers to any computer program product, apparatus and\/or device (e.g., magnetic discs, optical disks, memory, Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs)) used to provide machine instructions and\/or data to a programmable processor, including a machine-readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine-readable signal. The term \u201cmachine-readable signal\u201d refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and\/or data to a programmable processor.","To provide for interaction with a user, the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device (e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor) for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device (e.g., a mouse or a trackball) by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback (e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback); and input from the user can be received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input.","The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component (e.g., as a data server), or that includes a middleware component (e.g., an application server), or that includes a front end component (e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here), or any combination of such back end, middleware, or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication (e.g., a communication network). Examples of communication networks include a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d), a wide area network (\u201cWAN\u201d), and the Internet.","The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other.","A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example, much of this document has been described with respect to advertisements, but other forms of future, content delivery may also be supported.","In addition, the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results. In addition, other steps may be provided, or steps may be eliminated, from the described flows, and other components may be added to, or removed from, the described systems. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIGS. 1B-H","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
