---
title: Integrated silicon optomechanical gyroscopes (OMGs)
abstract: A system having an optomechanical gyroscope device. An optomechanical disk acts as an optical ring resonator and a mechanical disk resonator. A drive laser generates an optical drive signal. A drive channel acts as a waveguide for the optical drive signal and includes drive electrodes in a first proximity with respect to the optomechanical disk. The drive electrodes to excite the ring by evanescent coupling. A drive photodetector is configured to receive an output optical signal from the drive channel. A sense laser generates a optical sense signal. A sense channel acts as a waveguide for the optical sense signal and includes sense electrodes in a second proximity with respect to the optomechanical disk. A sense photodetector is configured to receive an output optical signal from the sense channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09482535&OS=09482535&RS=09482535
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09482535
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111223
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST STATEMENT","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under contract number H98230-10-9-0021 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","Embodiments of the invention relate to optomechanical devices. More particularly, embodiments of the invention relate to optomechanical gyroscopes.","Gyroscopes are devices that measure angular rate of movement, which is useful for many applications including dynamic vehicle control, gesture recognition, and navigation, etc. Gyroscope-based systems are currently used in many fields including aerospace navigation, industrial machine monitoring, automobile electronic stability control, handheld devices, etc.","Key measures of gyroscope performance are sensitivity, bandwidth and stability (or bias drift). The highest performance currently can cost up to $1,000,000, are frequently based on optics, and exhibit drift as low as a few degrees\/h or better. On the other end of the spectrum, consumer-grade gyroscopes currently cost about $1 per axis, are based on Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) technologies and suffer from a much higher drift, for example, in the range of 50-100 degrees\/h.","For personal navigation, three-axis gyroscopes having drift in the single degrees\/h range while maintaining the sensitivity and bandwidth to comprehend both slow and fast angular rotations are desirable. This is fundamentally unattainable using known electrostatic MEMS gyroscopes.","In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth. However, embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known circuits, structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the understanding of this description.","Described herein are embodiments of a gyroscopes that utilize silicon photonics to enable an optomechanical gyroscope (OMG) with high (e.g., navigation grade) performance and relatively low cost. This OMG utilizes optomechanics to provide optomechanically-transduced inertial sensors (including both gyroscopes and accelerometers) in a relatively low-cost silicon photonics platform.","In various embodiments, the silicon photonic OMG includes a ring resonator that is suspended by a central point. An optical resonance is excited in the ring by evanescent coupling from an adjacent waveguide (a drive channel). By amplitude-modulating the light at the mechanical resonant frequency of the disk, the disk is driven into vibration due to optomechanical forces (either radiation pressure or optical gradient force). Typical mechanical resonant frequencies may be in the range of 100 kHz to 10 MHz.","Once the disk is vibrating mechanically, it acts much like a resonant MEMS sensor. The mode of vibration is perturbed in proportion to the external acceleration (in the case of an accelerometer) or rotation (or Coriolis acceleration, in the case of a gyroscope).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIGS. 1and 1"],"b":"100"},"Drive laser  and sense laser  may be hybrid lasers or discrete (external) lasers. The lasers may be any type of laser known in the art. In one embodiment, both drive laser  and sense laser  may modulate the emanated light at the mechanical resonant frequency of optomechanical disk . In another embodiment, optional modulator  may be utilized to modulate the light from drive laser  to the mechanical resonant frequency of optomechanical disk .","Drive laser  is optically coupled with drive channel , which may include a waveguide. Photodetector  is also optically coupled with drive channel  to detect light from drive laser . Photodetector  may be an integrated hybrid photodiode, for example, or a discrete (external) detector.","Sense laser  is optically coupled with sense channel , which may include a waveguide. Photodetector  is also optically coupled with sense channel  to detect light from sense laser . Photodetector  may be an integrated hybrid photodiode, for example, or a discrete (external) detector.","In the example of , separate lasers and photodetectors are used. In an alternate embodiment, a single laser and\/or photodetector may be used in conjunction with waveguide splitters to split and combine the optical signal. In one embodiment, the laser may be locked I a feedback lop using the drive photodetector to maintain a consistent lasing wavelength.","In one embodiment, drive electrodes  are positioned to induce optical resonance in optomechanical disk  by evanescent coupling. When the light from drive laser  is modulated at the mechanical resonant frequency of optomechanical disk , transduction between drive channel  and optomechanical disk  at drive electrodes  to cause optomechanical disk  to resonate.","Once optomechanical disk  is resonating, it reacts to physical movement of the substrate upon which it is mounted. The mode of vibration is perturbed in proportion to the external acceleration (in the case of an accelerometer) or rotation (or Coriolis acceleration, in the case of a gyroscope). This change in vibrational mode is detected through evanescent coupling between optomechanical disk  and sense electrodes  at the node of the drive mode. The detection of a signal at sense photodetector  indicates the presence of external motion. The external motion is proportional to the amplitude of the signal. In one embodiment, sense channel  is aligned with one or more nodes (e.g., 45\u00b0, 135\u00b0, 225\u00b0,315\u00b0) and drive channel  is aligned with one or more antinodes (e.g., 0\u00b0, 90\u00b0, 180\u00b0, 270\u00b0).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIGS. 1and 1"],"b":["215","220","225","240","230"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["260","240","275"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"310"},"The modulated light induces vibration in the optomechanical disk through evanescent coupling, . The optomechanical disk then operates as an optical ring resonator and a mechanical disk resonator. Physical movement of the optomechanical disk, for example, by movement of a device containing the optomechanical disk, results in changes in the optical signal received by the sense channel photodetector.","The sense channel photodetector senses changes in the optical signal on the sense channel, . Movement of the device is determined from the sensed signal changes, . The movement is proportional to the signal sensed by the photodetector. A signal or other indicator is generated to indicate the movement, . The signal can be transmitted, or an indication can be stored, or an interface can be modified, or many other actions may be taken in response to the movement.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},"Electronic system  includes bus  or other communication device to communicate information, and processor(s)  coupled to bus  that may process information. Electronic system  may include multiple processors and\/or co-processors. Electronic system  further may include random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device  (referred to as memory), coupled to bus  and may store information and instructions that may be executed by processor . Memory  may also be used to store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor(s) .","Electronic system  may also include read only memory (ROM) and\/or other static storage device  coupled to bus  that may store static information and instructions for processor . Data storage device  may be coupled to bus  to store information and instructions. Data storage device  such as a magnetic disk or optical disc and corresponding drive may be coupled to electronic system .","Electronic system  may also be coupled via bus  to display device , which can be any type of display device, to display information to a user, for example, a touch screen. Input device  may be any type of interface and\/or device to allow a user to provide input to electronic system . Input device may include hard buttons and\/or soft buttons, voice or speaker input, to communicate information and command selections to processor(s) .","Electronic system  may further include sensors  that may be used to support functionality provided by Electronic system . Sensors  may include, for example, a gyroscope, a proximity sensor, a light sensor, etc. Any number of sensors and sensor types may be supported. In one embodiment, the gyroscope may be the optomechanical gyroscope described herein.","Electronic system  further may include network interface(s)  to provide access to a network, such as a local area network. Network interface(s)  may include, for example, a wireless network interface having antenna , which may represent one or more antenna(e). Network interface(s)  may also include, for example, a wired network interface to communicate with remote devices via network cable , which may be, for example, an Ethernet cable, a coaxial cable, a fiber optic cable, a serial cable, or a parallel cable. Network access may also be provided in accordance with 4G\/LTE standards as well.","In one embodiment, network interface(s)  may provide access to a local area network, for example, by conforming to IEEE 802.11b and\/or IEEE 802.11g and\/or IEEE 802.11n standards, and\/or the wireless network interface may provide access to a personal area network, for example, by conforming to Bluetooth standards. Other wireless network interfaces and\/or protocols, for example, 4G\/LTE, can also be supported.","IEEE 802.11b corresponds to IEEE Std. 802.11b-1999 entitled \u201cLocal and Metropolitan Area Networks, Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications: Higher-Speed Physical Layer Extension in the 2.4 GHz Band,\u201d approved Sep. 16, 1999 as well as related documents. IEEE 802.11g corresponds to IEEE Std. 802.11g-2003 entitled \u201cLocal and Metropolitan Area Networks, Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications, Amendment 4: Further Higher Rate Extension in the 2.4 GHz Band,\u201d approved Jun. 27, 2003 as well as related documents. Bluetooth protocols are described in \u201cSpecification of the Bluetooth System: Core, Version 1.1,\u201d published Feb. 22, 2001 by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group, Inc. Associated as well as previous or subsequent versions of the Bluetooth standard may also be supported.","In addition to, or instead of, communication via wireless LAN standards, network interface(s)  may provide wireless communications using, for example, Time Division, Multiple Access (TDMA) protocols, Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) protocols, Code Division, Multiple Access (CDMA) protocols, and\/or any other type of wireless communications protocol.","Reference in the specification to \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d in various places in the specification arc not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. The change in vibrational mode may be detected using evanescent coupling to a sense waveguide (a sense channel) that is designed to be at a node of the drive mode. The detection of a signal at a photodetector in the sense channel indicates the presence of external motion.","While the invention has been described in terms of several embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described, but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments of the invention are illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
