---
title: Method for transferring media playback from a different device
abstract: Transfer of media playback from a first device to a second device is based on a media entry point identifier. For example, a movie playing on a source device such as a movie theater screen may be quickly and easily transferred to a user's handheld device for playback on the handheld device or vice versa. Playback of the transferred media begins at or near a point within the transferred media at which the user requested media playback transfer. In one embodiment, media playback transfer relies on information captured from the source device, such as a video frame, a media progress bar, or a visual code. In another embodiment, the user device is associated with a user account that is different from the user account associated with the source device or the source device simply is not associated with a user account. In another embodiment, transfer of the media playback involves applying to the user device the settings of the source device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08750677&OS=08750677&RS=08750677
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08750677
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110823
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application relates to playback of various media and, particularly, transferring playback of media from one device to another device.","Various devices allow playback of media. For example, a user may watch a video recording using a VCR connected to a television or by streaming the same video on his portable computer. Similarly, a user may listen to an audio recording by using a record player connected to stereo speakers or by using headphones connected to her smartphone. The formats of media and means for accessing a type of media are nearly limitless. Users often stop or pause playback of media and then continue playback at a later time or a different location. A simple example is a user pausing streaming playback of a video on his laptop, leaving the streaming application open on the laptop, and then continuing playback at a later time on that same application on the laptop. In this instance, because the video streaming application was never closed, the playback continues from the point at which the user paused. There are many instances, however, where the user is forced to resume playback of the media from the beginning of the media or spend time locating the location at which he originally paused the media. In such instances, the user wastes time and becomes frustrated at the process of cuing the media to the correct location.","Some media content providers allow users to stop playback on a media application, close the application, and then resume playback from the point at which playback was paused. Sometimes playback is resumed on a different device, possibly at a different location. One example provider of such playback is Netflix. Using a home PC, a user may log into her Netflix account and begin playing back a movie, for example by streaming the movie. At some point during play, the user pauses playback and leaves for the airport. At the airport, she then uses her laptop to log back into her Netflix account and resume playback of the media on her laptop. While providers such as Netflix may allow limited pause and playback on different devices, they all require the user to log into a particular account on both the first and second devices. No system or device, however, allows a user to transfer playback from one device to another without being logged into the same user account on both devices.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","The present application relates to transfer of media playback from a first device to a second device.","In one embodiment, a QR code, or other visual language code, provides information to determine a version of the media playable on the second device and a media entry point for that media.","In another embodiment, audio and visual data are used to determine a version of the media playable on the second device and a media entry point for that media.","In yet another embodiment, media playback settings on the second device are adjusted to correspond with media playback settings on the first device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","102","104"]},"The illustrated mobile device  can include a controller or processor  (e.g., signal processor, microprocessor, ASIC, or other control and processing logic circuitry) for performing such tasks as signal coding, data processing, input\/output processing, power control, and\/or other functions. An operating system  can control the allocation and usage of the components  and support for an interface for transferring media playback . The interface for transferring media playback can consist of an application or other program that allows a user to carry out transfer of media playback from one device to another device. A media recognition component  may also play a role in transferring media playback, for example, by processing information to determine the media to be played back as well as an entry point identifier for that media. The entry point identifier indicates, for example, the precise location within the media at which transferred playback is to begin. The media recognition component might, without limitation, comprise complete executable instructions for image recognition, such as Quick Response code (\u201cQR code\u201d) recognition or key-frame recognition; audio recognition; or other data recognition and processing.","The illustrated mobile device  can include memory . Memory  can include non-removable memory  and\/or removable memory . The non-removable memory  can include RAM, ROM, flash memory, a hard disk, or other well-known memory storage technologies. The removable memory  can include flash memory or a Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card, which is well known in GSM communication systems, or other well-known memory storage technologies, such as \u201csmart cards.\u201d The memory  can be used for storing data and\/or code for running the operating system , the interface for transferring media playback , and the media recognition component . Example data can include web pages, text, images, sound files, video data, or other data sets to be sent to and\/or received from one or more network servers or other devices via one or more wired or wireless networks. The memory  can be used to store a subscriber identifier, such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI), and an equipment identifier, such as an International Mobile Equipment Identifier (IMEI). Such identifiers can be transmitted to a network server to identify users and equipment.","The mobile device  can support one or more input devices , such as a touch screen , microphone , camera , physical keyboard  and\/or trackball  and one or more output devices , such as a speaker  and a display . Other possible output devices (not shown) can include piezoelectric or other haptic output devices. Some devices can serve more than one input\/output function. For example, touch screen  and display  can be combined in a single input\/output device.","A wireless modem  can be coupled to an antenna (not shown) and can support two-way communications between the processor  and external devices, as is well understood in the art. The modem  is shown generically and can include a cellular modem for communicating with the mobile communication network  and\/or other radio-based modems, such as, e.g., a Bluetooth modem , a Wi-Fi modem , or a near field communication (\u201cNFC\u201d) modem . The wireless modem  is typically configured for communication with one or more cellular networks, such as a GSM network for data and voice communications within a single cellular network, between cellular networks, or between the mobile device and a public switched telephone network (PSTN).","The mobile device can further include at least one input\/output port , a power supply , a satellite navigation system receiver , such as a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, an accelerometer , and\/or a physical connector , which can be a USB port, IEEE 1394 (FireWire) port, and\/or RS-232 port. The illustrated components  are not required or all-inclusive, as any components can deleted and other components can be added.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["210","113"]},"In process block , in response to the indication, a request is generated for a media entry point identifier for the media playing on the source device. The media entry point identifier can specify a specific media and a specific point within the media at which the transferred playback of the media begins. As an example, in one embodiment, if the indication to transfer media from the source device is received while the media on the source device is at a specific scene, then the media entry point identifier will contain information that identifies the specific media and so that playback of the media can begin at the specific scene. To allow for time lapse, the media entry point identifier may include information that causes the transferred media to resume playback a few seconds, a few minutes, or some other time period before or after the point at which the media playback transfer was initiated. The request for the media entry point identifier may be, for example, a signal transmitted to another device, server, or other network location requesting the media entry point identifier from the other device, server, or network location. Alternatively, the request could be made internal to the device where the indication is received. For example, upon receiving an indication to transfer media playing on a source device, a mobile device may generate an internal command requesting the media entry point identifier, for example, by sending the request to a processor or media recognition technology resident on the mobile device. The request for media entry point identifier may be accompanied with information that allows the media entry point identifier to be calculated.","In process block , a response to the request for the media entry point identifier is received. The response may be received from another device, server, or other network location. In one embodiment, the response may be received by a transceiver upon transmission over a wired or wireless network. In another embodiment, NFC may be used to transfer a media entry point identifier. Alternatively, the response may be received on the same device from which the request for the media entry point identifier originated. The response may include, for example, a media entry point identifier. Alternatively, the response may indicate that the media entry point identifier could not be determined. In the case that the response indicates that the media entry point identifier could not be determined, the response may also contain one or more data fields associated with the reasons why the media entry point identifier could not be determined.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":"310"},"The method of information capture can include any of various methods, including by camera, by microphone, by infrared or other wireless communication, or by manual entry. The information captured by the user device might include audio information, video information, textual information, metadata, or hidden or visible embedded information. For example, the capture information might include: a visual or audio snapshot of the media playing on the source device, a key-frame of the media playing on the source device, an audio portion of the media playing on the source device, a visual detection of a media progress bar corresponding to the media playing on the source device, a QR code or other type of visual language associated with the media playing on the source device, audio embedded in the media playing on the source device, video embedded in the media playing on the source device, a watermark associated with the media playing on the source device, and\/or a barcode associated with the media playing on the source device. The captured information may also include information on the settings of the source device such as, for example, volume, brightness, contrast, playback speed and\/or resolution, tone or other audio settings, or other settings. Some or all of the captured information may include information captured from the source device through NFC, for example, upon the touching or \u201ctapping\u201d of the source device.","In process block , the captured information is used in an attempt to calculate or determine a media entry point identifier associated with media playing on the source device. For example, a media recognition component might be used to calculate the media entry point identifier based on captured video information, captured audio information, or a combination of captured audio and video information. Alternatively, or in addition, determination of the media entry point identifier may involve use of data contained in a QR code, bar code, watermark, or other type of metadata or embedded data. Alternatively, or in addition, determination of the media entry point identifier may involve processing or analyzing an image of the media progress bar corresponding to the media playing on the source device.","In decision block , if calculation of a media entry point identifier is successful then the media entry point identifier is provided to facilitate transfer playback from the source device (process block ). If calculation of a media entry point identifier is not successful then an identification of why the calculation was unsuccessful is made in a process block , along with a request to capture additional information. The identification of why the calculation was unsuccessful might identify any deficiencies in the captured information that prevented the media entry point identifier from being successfully calculated. For example, the identification of why the calculation was unsuccessful might specify that provided audio information was inaudible or contained too much background noise, that provided video information was too blurry to allow for proper pattern recognition, and\/or that a captured visual code could not be matched. The request to capture additional information might be a general request to simply attempt recapture of the information in the same manner previously used to capture the information. Alternatively, or in addition, a more specific request may be issued to recapture the information in a particular manner, e.g., by holding the user device more still during capture or by holding the user device closer to the source device during capture. Additionally, the request may include a request for additional forms of information. For example, if the original captured information only included video information, the request for capture of additional information may include a request for capture of audio information. In one embodiment, the attempt to calculate a media entry point identifier may be unsuccessful because several non-unique media are identified. In such an embodiment, the request for additional captured information could consist of requesting the user to choose or identify the captured media from among a list of potential non-unique media that is, for example, displayed on the user's mobile device. Such a request could be provided to the user as, for example, an audio message or a displayed message.","In process block , the media entry point identifier is provided in order to facilitate transfer of playback from the source device. As previously discussed, the media entry point identifier contains information indicating where to begin playback of the transferred media.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4B","FIG. 4A"],"b":["410","415"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["420","422","424","421","427","425","426"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4C","b":["430","430","431","432","434","435","435","437"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4D","b":["440","441","442","443","444","445","446"]},"While  show example interfaces on a mobile device, it should be understood that media playback transfer disclosed herein includes transfer of media playback from any source device to any other device. For example, in one embodiment media playback transfer from a mobile device, such as a smartphone or electronic reader device, to a more stationary device, such as a television can be provided. In such an embodiment, the television may contain many or all of the same sensors and capture mechanisms described herein, such as microphones, cameras, or near-field communication transceivers and associated detection technologies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","520","530"]},"In process block , the captured information is used to initiate determination of a media entry point identifier associated with the media playing on the source device. The manner in which the media entry point is determined will depend on the type and amount of captured information. If only one type of captured information is provided, then an attempt at determination of the media entry point will be made using just that information. In one embodiment, multiple types of captured information will be used in an attempt to determine the media entry point identifier. In general, the more types of captured information used, the greater the likelihood that a media entry point identifier will be determined. For example, media recognition technology might be used to calculate the media entry point identifier based on captured video information, captured audio information, or a combination of captured audio and video information. Alternatively, or in addition, determination of the media entry point identifier may involve use of data contained in a QR code, bar code, watermark, or other type of metadata, visual language, or embedded data. Alternatively, or in addition, determination of the media entry point identifier may involve processing or analyzing an image of the media progress bar corresponding to the media playing on the source device.","In decision block , if calculation of a media entry point identifier is successful then the user is prompted regarding the transfer of playback from the source device (process block ) and then transfers playback of the media from the source device (process block ). If calculation of a media entry point identifier is not successful then additional information is captured (process block ) and determination of a media entry point identifier is initiated once again (process block ). This process continues until a media entry point is determined or the user aborts the attempts at media entry point determination.","In process block , a user is prompted regarding transfer of playback from the source device. The user may be presented with a number of options for transferring media playback from the source device. For example, the user may be given the option of immediately transferring the media playback to a specific device in the user's possession or postponing playback for a later time on a different device. The user may also be given a number of different playback options. For example, if the media captured from the source device was video and audio, then the user may be given the option of transferring playback such that only the video plays, but with closed captioning text at the bottom. In another example, if the media captured from the source device was a music video, then the user may be given the option of transferring playback such that only the audio plays.","In process block , the media entry point identifier is received by a media player, and pay at the media entry point begins. As previously described, the media entry point identifier contains information identifying the media transferred as well as the specific point within the transferred media at which playback is to resume. In one embodiment, the media entry point identifier also contains information regarding the settings of the source device, such as volume, brightness, or contrast. In such an embodiment, the settings of the source device are applied to the device to which the media playback is transferred before playback of the media transferred from the source device is begun. In another embodiment, the media entry point identifier also contains content authorization information, such as confirmation that a license for the media has been obtained or information presentable to the user that allows the user to choose whether to license the content. In another embodiment, the user device is associated with a user account that is different from the user account associated with the source device. In another embodiment, the user device is associated with a service provider that is different from the service provider associated with the source device. In another embodiment, the source device is not associated with a user account or a service provider.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["610","620","620","625","626","610","610","615","616","617","610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["710","720","730"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"800"},"In example environment , various types of services (e.g., computing services) are provided by a cloud . For example, the cloud  can comprise a collection of computing devices , , , which may be located centrally or distributed, that provide cloud-based services to various types of users and devices connected via a network such as the Internet. The implementation environment  can be used in different ways to accomplish computing tasks. For example, some tasks (e.g., processing user input and presenting a user interface) can be performed on local computing devices (e.g., connected devices) while other tasks (e.g., storage of data to be used in subsequent processing or access and use of information stored on a remote server) can be performed in the cloud .","In one example, the cloud  can store a media database, which includes information on different types and versions media, and which may be referenced in effecting transfer of media playback from a source device to a user device. The cloud  may contain a particular media playback transfer server  that may contain information on various types and versions of playable media, as well as computational capability for determining a media entry point identifier as well as specific versions of media playable on certain types of devices. The media playback transfer server  may also contain information specific to certain users, such as all media entry point identifiers associated with a certain user, so as to facilitate transfer of media playback to any device connected to the cloud . As one example, a user may use connected device  to transfer media playback from disconnected device . To do so, the user may capture information from the source device onto the connected device . In the example shown, the user captures an image  from the disconnected device  onto the user device . This captured information  may then be transmitted to the cloud, where it is received by the media playback transfer server . The media playback transfer server  uses the captured information to determine a media entry point identifier and a version of the media playable on one of the connected devices , , . The media entry point identifier and playable version of the media are both then transmitted to one or all of the connected devices , ,  to facilitate transfer of media playback to the connected devices. In addition, some of the connected devices , ,  may also communicate with one another outside the cloud, as is shown between connected devices  and . In such instance, a media entry point identifier and playable media version may be transmitted between devices outside of the cloud. In one embodiment, for example, a media entry point identifier and playable media or related information may be transmitted between devices using a Bluetooth communication protocol or, upon \u201ctapping\u201d of the devices, through NFC.","In example environment , the cloud  provides services for connected devices , ,  with a variety of screen capabilities. Connected device  represents a device with a computer screen  (e.g., a mid-size screen). For example, connected device  could be a personal computer such as a desktop computer, laptop, notebook, netbook, or the like. Connected device  represents a device with a mobile device screen  (e.g., a small size screen). For example, connected device  could be a mobile phone, smart phone, personal digital assistant, tablet computer, or the like. Connected device  represents a device with a large screen . For example, connected device  could be a television screen (e.g., a smart television) or another device connected to a television (e.g., a set-top box or gaming console) or the like. One or more of the connected devices , ,  can include touch screen capabilities. Touchscreens can accept input in different ways. For example, capacitive touchscreens detect touch input when an object (e.g., a fingertip or stylus) distorts or interrupts an electrical current running across the surface. As another example, touchscreens can use optical sensors to detect touch input when beams from the optical sensors are interrupted. Physical contact with the surface of the screen is not necessary for input to be detected by some touchscreens. Devices without screen capabilities also can be used in example environment . For example, the cloud  can provide services for one or more computers (e.g., server computers) without displays.","Services can be provided by the cloud  through service providers , or through other providers of online services (not depicted). For example, cloud services can be customized to the screen size, display capability, and\/or touch screen capability of a particular connected device (e.g., connected devices , , ). Different devices on the cloud may be associated with different service providers. Any disconnected device  is not part of the cloud and may be associated with no service providers or, alternatively, with service providers that are not associated with the cloud. Disconnected device  may also contain a screen .","In example environment , the cloud  provides the technologies and solutions described herein to the various connected devices , ,  using, at least in part, the service providers . For example, the service providers  can provide a centralized solution for various cloud-based services. The service providers  can manage service subscriptions for users and\/or devices (e.g., for the connected devices , ,  and\/or their respective users).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","910","920","930","940","950","960","970","910","900","910","920","920","930","940","950","960","960","970","970","970","900","900","900"]},"Although the operations of some of the disclosed methods are described in a particular, sequential order for convenient presentation, it should be understood that this manner of description encompasses rearrangement, unless a particular ordering is required by specific language set forth below. For example, operations described sequentially may in some cases be rearranged or performed concurrently. Moreover, for the sake of simplicity, the attached figures may not show the various ways in which the disclosed methods can be used in conjunction with other methods.","Any of the disclosed methods can be implemented as computer-executable instructions stored on one or more computer-readable storage media (e.g., non-transitory computer-readable media, such as one or more optical media discs, volatile memory components (such as DRAM or SRAM), or nonvolatile memory components (such as hard drives)) and executed on a computer (e.g., any commercially available computer, including smart phones or other mobile devices that include computing hardware). Any of the computer-executable instructions for implementing the disclosed techniques as well as any data created and used during implementation of the disclosed embodiments can be stored on one or more computer-readable media (e.g., non-transitory computer-readable media). The computer-executable instructions can be part of, for example, a dedicated software application or a software application that is accessed or downloaded via a web browser or other software application (such as a remote computing application). Such software can be executed, for example, on a single local computer (e.g., any suitable commercially available computer) or in a network environment (e.g., via the Internet, a wide-area network, a local-area network, a client-server network (such as a cloud computing network), or other such network) using one or more network computers.","For clarity, only certain selected aspects of the software-based implementations are described. Other details that are well known in the art are omitted. For example, it should be understood that the disclosed technology is not limited to any specific computer language or program. For instance, the disclosed technology can be implemented by software written in C++, Java, Perl, JavaScript, Adobe Flash, or any other suitable programming language. Similarly, the methods and systems disclosed herein are not limited to any particular type of messaging application and may include message applications provided with a device, message applications provided by third parties, or both. Additionally, if a messaging service is integrated within an operating system, then the operating system may perform the steps and procedures disclosed herein as performed by applications. In some situations, an Application Programming Interface (API) or a Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI) may be used when carrying out the methods or implementing the systems disclosed herein. Likewise, the disclosed technology is not limited to any particular computer or type of hardware. Certain details of suitable computers and hardware are well known and need not be set forth in detail in this disclosure.","Furthermore, any of the software-based embodiments (comprising, for example, computer-executable instructions for causing a computer to perform any of the disclosed methods) can be uploaded, downloaded, or remotely accessed through a suitable communication means. Such suitable communication means include, for example, the Internet, the World Wide Web, an intranet, software applications, cable (including fiber optic cable), magnetic communications, electromagnetic communications (including RF, microwave, and infrared communications), electronic communications, or other such communication means.","The disclosed methods, apparatus, and systems should not be construed as limiting in any way. Instead, the present disclosure is directed toward all novel and nonobvious features and aspects of the various disclosed embodiments, alone and in various combinations and subcombinations with one another. The disclosed methods, apparatus, and systems are not limited to any specific aspect or feature or combination thereof, nor do the disclosed embodiments require that any one or more specific advantages be present or problems be solved.","In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the disclosure may be applied, it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are only preferred examples and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the disclosure. We claim all that comes within the scope and spirit of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A","b":["4","4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
