---
title: Extended above the lock-screen experience
abstract: A subset of functionality associated with an application or portion of an application can be executed above a lock screen. A lock screen enables a device to transition from a locked state to an unlocked state. While in a locked state, at least a subset of application functionality can be deployed. Additional functionality associated with the application can be accessed by transitioning to an unlocked state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09606643&OS=09606643&RS=09606643
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09606643
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110629
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/481,486, filed May 2, 2011, and entitled \u201cEXTENDED ABOVE THE LOCK-SCREEN EXPERIENCE.\u201d The entirety of the aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference.","A lock screen is often employed with respect to computers to prevent undesired interaction. A lock screen is a unique display-screen of a user interface that when active generally limits interaction with a computer, including the ability to execute applications and access data. Accordingly, a user can lock a computer or the computer can lock itself after a period of inactivity, which results in presentation of the lock screen and substantially limited computer interaction. Subsequently, the user can perform one or more particular actions to unlock the computer, thus removing the lock screen and enabling full interaction.","Protection is provided by a lock screen with respect to interaction by unauthorized as well as authorized users. For example, a lock screen can require entry of a password to unlock the computer thereby preventing unauthorized users from accessing computer functionality and personal data. In another instance, a lock screen can prevent unintended computer interaction by an authorized user, which is especially useful with respect to small computers such as mobile phones. One example of unintended interaction, often referred to as pocket dialing, occurs when a mobile phone is accidentally touched or bumped and, unbeknownst to the user, initiates a call from within the a user's pocket or purse. In this instance, rather than, or in addition to a password, a particular gesture can be employed to unlock the computer such as a horizontal swipe of a finger across the screen or pressing a physical or virtual button.","The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key\/critical elements or to delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","Briefly described, the subject disclosure generally pertains to an extended above the lock screen experience. More particularly, at least a subset of functionality associated with one or more applications or portions thereof can be employed above a lock screen. By way of example and not limitation, a subset of web search functionality can be employed above a lock screen to enable expeditious access to search functionality as well as content. Further, the lock screen can be transcended to enable application execution below the lock screen, for example to access functionality not available above the lock screen (e.g., access a selected search result). Still further, content generation can be deployed above a lock screen in which content based on context is automatically delivered above the lock screen. For instance, a traffic accident notification can be rendered above the lock based on gathered location data from the device or computer.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways in which the subject matter may be practiced, all of which are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.","Details below are generally directed toward an extended lock screen experience. For recurrent or time sensitive tasks or frequently updating data, unlocking a computer, locating and launching an application and invoking functionality can be a noticeable hindrance (e.g., numerous distinct user interactions). Further, users are often unaware of particular tools or application functionality that would be useful in a specific situation. Additionally, users typically do not have timely access to useful information at a moment of need. These issues can be addressed by providing applications and content above a lock screen. This allows a user to have fast access to, and discoverability of, one or more applications and\/or functionality, as well as relevant content. By way of example and not limitation, a user can pull a mobile device out of a pocket or purse and be provided with substantially instance access to search tools as well as contextually relevant information such as a map of the user's current location located on the display associated with the device lock screen. Of course, for privacy conscious users, the type and amount of information exposed on the lock screen can be controlled. Additionally, the user can be provided with substantially instant access to at least subset of functionality associated with any application.","Provided below are details regarding systems and methods for provisioning access to applications and information above a lock screen. For purposes of simplicity and brevity various aspects of the disclosed subject matter are described and depicted with respect to a search application, search tools, and associated functionality. However, the claimed subject matter is not intended to be limited thereto as a number of other applications and related functionality can be accessed and utilized is a similar manner.","Herein, \u201cabove the lock\u201d or \u201cabove a lock\u201d refers to actions performed while a computer is in a locked state, and \u201cbelow the lock\u201d or \u201cbelow a lock\u201d is intended to refer to actions performed when a computer is in an unlocked state, wherein actions can refer to initiating execution of computer executable code, as well as input and output of data, among other things. Typically, a computer employs a lock screen in order to prevent unintentional execution of processes or applications. In the locked state, a computer typically limits actions to those needed to transition to an unlocked state where most actions are performed. However, as described herein, at least a subset of such actions can be performed above the lock. Stated differently, a subset of functionality is deployed while in the locked state\u2014contrary to conventional mechanisms that solely allow transitioning from such locked state. Further, since a lock screen typically indicates whether a device is in a locked or unlocked state, often the terms \u201cabove the lock screen\u201d or \u201cabove a lock screen\u201d and \u201cbelow the lock screen\u201d or \u201cbelow a lock screen\u201d are used for clarity. Further yet and as will be described in more detail hereinafter, data, information, content, or the like can be rendered on a conventional lock screen and\/or a different screen that also resides above a lock.","Various aspects of the subject disclosure are now described in more detail with reference to the annexed drawings, wherein like numerals refer to like or corresponding elements throughout. It should be understood, however, that the drawings and detailed description relating thereto are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to the particular form disclosed. Rather, the intention is to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.","Referring initially to , a deployment system  is illustrated that facilitates deployment of software applications or portions thereof above a lock screen. The deployment system  can be configured to execute a subset of application functionality above a lock screen for a computer or device. The deployment system  can permit at least a portion of applications to execute a subset of functionality while the computer or device is in a locked state. Stated differently, a portion of an application can be deployed on a computer and executed above the lock screen, whereas in conventional techniques only a transition from a locked state to an unlock state is permitted.","As discussed, a lock screen is an idle state in which a device or computer functionality is limited solely to a transition out of such lock screen. For example, a mobile device will transition into a lock screen or locked state after a period of inactivity or an input from a user (e.g., pressing a hardware button). Overall, the lock screen is used to secure the device or computer. In one instance, the security is to protect from unintentional or accidental activity on the device or computer. Additionally, the lock screen may require authentication (e.g., password, code, etc.) to prevent unauthorized access to the device or computer. Although the lock screen affords security, it often hinders quick access to applications and data since multiple steps are required to transition from a locked state to an unlocked state and then from a home screen (e.g., application listing) to an application. By enabling at least a subset of functionality of an application to deploy above the lock screen, accessibility can be optimized without compromising security. For example, in addition to a rendering a \u201cslide to unlock\u201d on a lock screen, a \u201cslide to search\u201d can concurrently be rendered to allow a search to be performed (e.g., rendered above the lock and executing the search above the lock).","Continuing with , the deployment system  further includes an acquisition component  configured to receive, retrieve, or otherwise obtain or acquire one more applications (e.g., sets of instructions, program modules, data, updates, etc. specified in a computer programming language that when executed by a computer performs functionality described thereby), portions thereof, and\/or metadata represented by one or more application components . Such application components  are capable of providing various functions including but not limited to searching, social networking, content delivery, and the like. In general, the acquisition component  can obtain a portion of any application that corresponds to a subset of functionality in which such subset of functionality can be deployed above the lock screen.","The deployment system  can further include a deployment component  that is configured to deploy the one or more application components  above a lock screen. Stated differently, an application can be deployed on a conventional lock screen or other screen while a device is in a locked state, as opposed to below the lock screen where applications typically operate after a device is unlocked. It is to be appreciated that \u201cdeploy\u201d can include any installation, setup, configuration, re-configuration, etc. of a portion of an application. In other words, a portion of an application that is deployed can include installation of the portion of the application and\/or configuration of the portion of the application. Furthermore, the deployment component  can deploy a select application such that a selection is a choice of a plurality of applications. For example, a conventional application can be stored or resident on a computer that executes below a lock screen (e.g., while in an unlocked state). Yet, the deployment system  allows a select application (e.g., stored on a computer, obtained from a remote source, etc.) to be deployed while the computer is in a locked state. As will be described later, operating above the lock screen (e.g., while in a locked state) may require a particular gesture to expose one or more of the application components . It is to be appreciated that the particular gesture can be in addition to a typical gesture employed to transition from a locked state (e.g., above a lock screen) to an unlocked state (e.g., below a lock screen).","The deployment system  further includes a filter component  that is configured to enable filtering or constraint of the number of applications and\/or amount of information that is delivered above the lock screen. Conventionally, the lock screen is solely utilized as means of transitioning a computer from a locked state of limited functionality (e.g., related to unlocking the computer) to an unlocked state. Moreover, the addition of more than a small number of applications and\/or content can reduce the provided benefit and resemble more of a home screen (a.k.a. idle screen or main screen), which provides a starting point for access to computer functionality. In accordance with one aspect, applications and\/or content can be filtered as a function of contextual information including user location, interests, preferences, etc.","Furthermore, the filter component  can manage the application components  exposure above the lock screen. In general, the filter component  can control an amount of data rendered above the lock screen in order to maintain a streamlined and uncluttered experience above the lock. For example, the filter component  can include default settings or user-defined settings in which application components  deployed above the lock are managed. In terms of a default setting, the filter component  can manage the application components  that are deployed above the lock screen based on a number (e.g., restrict to two (2) application components to be deployed above lock screen at any time). In another example, the filter component  can manage above the application components  based upon application type (e.g., allow one (1) search application, allow one (1) social network application, etc.). In terms of a user-defined setting, the deployment of application components  (and respective subset of functionality) can be specifically tailored.","The deployment system  can further include an invocation component  that is configured to invoke execution of a particular application below the lock screen, for example to employ full device and application functionality. In general, the transition between above a lock screen to below a lock screen can include authentication, such as, but not limited to a password entry. Various content and user interaction is enabled above a lock screen by a way of the deployment system , yet the invocation component  can afford a transition to an unlocked state in order to access additional functionality associated with the application components . For instance, if a search engine is employed above the lock screen, navigation to returned results may require execution of the search engine application below the lock screen and possibly an authentication to transition below the lock screen.","The deployment system  can further include a privacy component  that is configured to manage data exposure for application components  that are deployed above the lock screen. In general, data can be exposed for application components  when executed above the lock screen, wherein the data exposure can correspond to the subsets of functionality provided by the application components . In a particular embodiment, the privacy component  can ensure that deployed portions of the application above the lock screen satisfy a certain privacy policy. For instance, the privacy policy can be user-defined or customized from a default setting. In still another embodiment, the privacy component  can employ an anonymous filter that strips (e.g., removes) data of any personal or private information so as to ensure the data exposure will be anonymous.","In another embodiment, the privacy component  can monitor the deployed application components , and in particular, data exposed during the employment of any subset of application functionality that occurs above the lock screen. Based on this monitoring, the privacy component  can trigger the invocation component  for authentication. In general, if a particular data exposure or privacy level is exceeded the invocation component  can require an authentication for further execution of the subset of application functionality. Stated differently, once a subset of application functionality is deemed to exceed a privacy threshold, an authentication can be required to continue such application functionality below the lock screen.","It is to be appreciated that the privacy component  can include settings that are user-defined in order to customize what each individual user considers private (e.g., unacceptable) or public (e.g., acceptable) data exposure. In terms of a query application example, a query can be received and results can be provided. Yet, further access to a selected search result can be deemed above a data exposure threshold which will invoke an authentication to continue below the lock screen. Additionally, the privacy component  can include default settings in which particular subsets of application functionality will invoke an authentication. It is to be appreciated that the invocation component  can include any suitable authentication techniques such as, but not limited to, a password entry, a personal identification number (PIN) entry, a thumbprint, facial recognition, retina detection, secret question answer, biometric data, among others.","It is to be appreciated that the deployment system  can be employed with any \u201ccomputer,\u201d defined herein to include a computing device, mobile device, handset, mobile phone, laptop, portable gaming device, tablet, smart phone, portable digital assistant (PDA), gaming console, web browsing device, portable media device, portable global positioning assistant (GPS) devices, electronic reader devices (e.g., e-readers), touch screen televisions, touch screen displays, tablet phones, any computing device that includes a lock screen, and the like.","For example, a laptop can include the deployment system . The laptop can include a screen saver in which the laptop is in a locked state. The deployment system  can deploy a subset of functionality for an application to execute above a lock screen. Following the example, a screen saver (e.g., lock screen) can include a deployed application that includes a subset of functionality. In a particular example, search functionality can be exposed above the lock screen (here, the screen saver).","Further, a mobile device can acquire a search application from an application store, wherein the search application includes above the lock screen functionality. For instance, the search application can be an update to an existing search application installed on the mobile device. The search application can be deployed on the mobile device such that a subset of functionality is executed while in a locked state of the mobile device. Stated differently, the mobile device locked state is extended to include execution of the search application, whereas conventional mobile devices in a locked state are solely limited to an unlocking functionality.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","110","120","100","200","110","120","110","120","210","220"]},"The remote application source  can include an application store, an external memory (e.g., SD card, flash drive, etc.), a website, a download from the Internet, a cloud, a server, among others. For instance, the acquisition component  can receive a portion of an application component  via a cellular or wireless data communication from a cloud-based application platform. As discussed, it is to be appreciated that the remote application source  can be any source (e.g., website, web link, memory, hard drive, server, etc.) external or remote to the deployment system .","The local application source  can include any installed, existing, or locally retrieved applications. Such local applications can be utilized by the acquisition component  as application components  and, in turn, deployed above the lock screen. Stated differently, existing applications on a host (e.g., computer, device, etc.) can be utilized by the acquisition component  for conversion to an application component  for deployment above a lock screen.","The remote application source  and\/or the local application source  can include applications in any suitable format. In particular, the applications associated with the sources can be updates of existing applications, wherein the update enables an above the lock screen functionality. In another example, the applications from the sources can be specifically tailored applications that are to be deployed above the lock screen. In still another example, the sources can include applications that do not incorporate above the lock screen functionality, yet the system  exposes such functionality by acquiring portions of the application (via the acquisition component ).","For example, a mobile device can include a social network application that executes below the lock screen. The acquisition component  can collect portions of the social network application as application components , to which the deployment component  (not shown) enables above the lock execution of a subset of functionality associated with the social network application. It is to be appreciated that the social network application can be stored on the mobile device (e.g., executable for installation, *.exe, installation package, etc.), installed on the device, among others. In a similar example, the mobile device can download (from a remote source) an update to a social network application that includes above the lock screen functionality. Moreover, the mobile device can acquire an application solely for the execution above the lock (e.g., above the lock version of the application versus a conventional below the lock version of the application).","In one embodiment, the acquisition component  can collect, retrieve, receive, or obtain metadata or a portion of data that can include permission information to enable an application or portion thereof deploy and execute above a lock screen (e.g., while in a locked state). The metadata or portion of data acquired by the acquisition component  can include permissions or requisite portions of code (e.g., set of instructions) for execution of an application or portion thereof while in a locked state.","The acquisition component  can further include a permission component  that is configured to grant permission to application components  with a device or computer. The permission component  affords a mechanism in order to permit application components  to deploy above the lock screen and, in turn, implement a subset of functionality of the application components  above the lock screen (e.g., while in a locked state). Conventional techniques can restrict computer resources and applications with the exception of a lock screen mechanism that transitions from a locked state to an unlocked state. For instance, a computer can include a subset of instructions related to an operating system in which particular functionalities are restricted and not accessible. However, the permission component  can communicate with the computer to grant access to application components  for the deployment of a subset of functionality (associated with the application components ) while the computer is in a locked state (e.g., above the lock screen). For instance, a mobile device can include areas of an operating system that are partially closed and restricted, wherein access to such areas often require a \u201chack\u201d or a \u201cjailbreak.\u201d Yet, the permission component  affords a less intrusive manner to access such areas of an operating system for permitting an application for deployment while in locked state. For example, the permission component  can access a system registry, an application manager, file system, file registry, application registry, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","100","300","300","300","110"]},"The application components  can include a search component  that is configured to query local data on a device or computer as well as data on the Internet. As discussed, the search component  can be registered and permitted to deploy above a lock screen via the permission component (not shown) and\/or the deployment component . For example, a lock screen can include a rendered mechanism that solely allows unlocking of the device as well as rendered components associated with the search component . Details of user interfaces are described in .","With the search component  deployed above the lock screen, a subset of functionality associated with the search application (e.g., search component ) is exposed while in a locked state. The search component  can acquire a query above the lock screen. For example, from a lock screen, a user can select to input a query via text input (e.g., utilizing a keypad, touchpad, touch screen), voice\/audio input (e.g., utilizing a microphone associated with the device or computer), or image input (e.g., utilizing a camera or video camera associated with the device or computer). Moreover, as the query is input above the lock screen, search results can populate in real time. For example, as a user enters text, results can be populated based on the entered text. After processing the query, the search results are delivered above the lock screen and rendered. It is to be appreciated the search component  is executed above the lock screen and is permitted to access device or computer resources in order to provide a subset of functionality of the application component  (here, a search component for querying).","In order to access additional functionality for the search component , the invocation component  and\/or the privacy component  can require authentication. In general, additional functionality of the search component  is executed below the lock screen which may require authentication (e.g., password entry). For instance, a selected search result can invoke authentication based on accessing a web link or web page for such selected result. In such example, prior to accessing a web link or web page, the authentication is performed to transition below the lock screen. However, it is to be appreciated that a user-defined setting can allow such additional functionality above the lock screen.","Furthermore, the system  can deliver application data and functionality unbeknownst to a user. For instance, a user may be unaware of functionality or features provided by applications that are installed on a computer. To that extent, the system  enables such functionality or data generated from such functionality to be rendered above a lock screen (e.g., while in a locked state). For instance, in terms of a search application (e.g., application delivers search results for a query), the search application can provide search results for a query as well as other passively collected data (e.g., GPS location, prior queries, web browsing history, email content, web site history, cookie information, text messages, call history, calendar data, to do lists, etc.).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","100","400","400","400","110"]},"The application components  can include a context component  that is configured to generate content based on context for a device or computer. As discussed, the context component  can be registered and permitted to deploy above a lock screen via the permission component (not shown) and\/or the deployment component . For example, a lock screen can include a rendered mechanism that solely allows unlocking of the device as well as rendered components associated with the context component . Details of user interfaces are described in .","The application components  can include a context component  that is configured to generate content based on context, wherein the generated content can be delivered above the lock screen. Stated differently, the context component  can be permitted to deploy a subset of functionality above the screen lock in which contextual data is rendered and available for access.","The context component  can leverage device information (e.g., information collected or gathered resident on the device) or computer information (e.g., information collected or gathered resident on the computer) in order to identify content based on context. Content based on context can be any suitable data such as, but not limited to, maps, mini-maps, weather data, traffic data, flight information, goods and services recommendations, and the like. Overall, the context component  can collect, receive, collect, etc. information and provide content that is reflective of particular situations or circumstances. For example, the content component  can leverage a location with a device or computer in order to identify content based on context for delivery above the lock screen.","The device or computer information that can be utilized by the context component  can be, but are not limited to, a Global Positioning System (GPS) data, a user-defined location data (e.g., keypad, voice, touchpad, touch screen, etc.), wireless receiver data (e.g., data communication with a particular hot spot, etc.), cellular receiver data (e.g., triangulation with cell towers, etc.), browser history, queries, device activity (e.g., calls, application accessed, etc.), device application data (e.g., social network application information, etc.), email data, text messages, time of day, calendar data, event listings, to do lists, among others. Moreover, the context component  can identify a mode of travel based on collected data such as speed, location, distance traveled, etc. In addition, the context component  can include settings that can be customized based on user preference (e.g., which data is available for content generation).","For clarity, a quick example can relate to a mobile device that includes a GPS for identification of a location, wherein the location is at a baseball stadium. The context application can be deployed above the lock screen such that a map of the stadium (e.g., seating, concessions, stores, food, etc.) can be the generated content that can be delivered on the lock screen. In another example, the content deployed above the lock can be baseball scores. Thus, a user can quickly access such relevant information at a glance of the mobile device lock screen, for instance. In another example, the context component  can identify a location as within a park. In this situation, contextual information such as, but not limited to, weather and park hours can be populated above the lock screen to the user. In still another example, the context component  can deploy a notification above the lock screen that a friend from a social network is within a particular distance.","Continuing with , the application components  can include a confirm component  that is configured to facilitate generating content based on context. In general, the confirm component  can be also deployed above the lock in order to confirm accuracy of content generated by the context component . Specifically, the confirm component  can send inquiries that are rendered above the lock screen (ALS) and receive responses (e.g., user input) to such inquiries above the lock screen (ALS). These inquiries can be simple questions that allow confirmation or denial of generated content accuracy. It is to be appreciated that the confirm component  can be short and precise with inquiries as well as infrequent so as to not annoy or clutter activity above the lock screen.","For example, the context component  may ascertain that a user is on his or her way to work based on a location data (e.g., speed, geographic position, etc.). In this situation however, the user may be going to a meeting that is on a similar route as the one used for work. The confirm component  can render an inquiry above the lock screen (ALS) that states \u201cAre you going to work?\u201d with the option of selecting \u201cYes\u201d or \u201cNo.\u201d This simple affirmation (e.g., user input above the lock screen (ALS)) for the context component  greatly increases accuracy as well as provides minimal intrusion or annoyance in terms of clutter above the lock screen. Moreover, it is to be appreciated that the confirm component  can be optimally employed while the device indicates traveling from one location to another (e.g., car, bus, subway, on foot, etc.), wherein confirmation can be deployed above the lock screen to assist in predicting activity or identifying potential final destinations.","Turning now to the example with a search application as depicted in , various techniques can be utilized to launch or access data associated with the search application. In other words, a user can access the search application that is executing above the lock screen with an entry point.","It is to be appreciated that at least three different entry points can be provided with respect to a search application. First, an entry point is offered to search functionality above the lock screen, which may require an alternate gesture to launch. It is to be appreciated that the entry point can be offered for search functionality above the lock screen with a gesture, wherein the location of the gesture on the screen indicates which application to launch. For instance, a sliding gesture can unlock the device, whereas a similar sliding gesture (originating and located at a different point on the device screen) can execute a subset of functionality above the lock screen. Second, an entry point can be offered to a contextually appropriate search experience above the lock screen, which can be accessed directly by an alternate gesture. This entry point may also include useful data or information that may allow the user to complete a task without further interaction. For example, if a user is in a mall, airport, or shopping district, a link to a venue map can be provided. In another example, if a user is driving, a set of tools that are useful while driving such as traffic or nearby parking can be delivered. In yet another example, if a user is waiting at a bus stop, a link to a real-time bus schedule can be provided, but displayed as \u201cnext#5 bus in 3 min.\u201d The third entry point offered can be to a personally relevant search experience delivered above the lock screen, which can be accessed directly by an alternate gesture. This experience may involve inferences made by analyzing user behavior over time. For instance, if there is a traffic accident on a freeway a user takes every day, a notification can be offered that the commute will be delayed with a link to the traffic incident. A full-screen experience can also be afforded that compliments any of the above scenarios. For example, a full screen venue map, traffic map, and transit schedule map can be offered when a user is in a venue, stopped on a freeway, or stopped on a bus, respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","520","510","522","530","510","532","540","510","544","550","510","522"]},"Further, if a password is required, a non-personalized search experience can be provided above the lock screen in a secure way (e.g., sandboxed), and a user can be asked to enter a password at appropriate times if required. Of course, a user can specify the degree or extent that information known about a user that is allowed to be used from nothing (e.g., anonymous) to everything or somewhere in between.","In addition, it should be appreciated that a plurality of different gestures can be employed such as, but not limited to, gesturing different locations, tapping different locations, moving content (e.g., drag application icon to lock icon to unlock or moving lock icon to application icon to unlock), specific gesture patterns (e.g., horizontal swipe, vertical swipe, horizontal swipe followed by a downward vertical swipe, tracing a letter), ending gestures on different locations, moving covers (e.g., gesture from first corner to another corner in a diagonal swipe, where the first corner is an application icon), or sliding windows (e.g., swipe motion up, swipe motion down, swipe motion right, swipe motion left, where start of swipe is a smaller window for an application icon). In general, it is to be appreciated and understood that the subject innovation includes any suitable gesture input from a lock screen state.","The aforementioned systems, architectures, environments, and the like have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub-components specified therein, some of the specified components or sub-components, and\/or additional components. Sub-components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet, one or more components and\/or sub-components may be combined into a single component to provide aggregate functionality. Communication between systems, components and\/or sub-components can be accomplished in accordance with either a push and\/or pull model. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity, but known by those of skill in the art.","Furthermore, various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below can include artificial intelligence, machine learning, or knowledge or rule-based components, sub-components, processes, means, methodologies, or mechanisms (e.g., support vector machines, neural networks, expert systems, Bayesian belief networks, fuzzy logic, data fusion engines, classifiers . . . ). Such components, inter alia, can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent. By way of example and not limitation, the deployment system  or one or more sub-components thereof can employ such mechanisms to efficiently determine or otherwise infer applications or portions thereof that can be deployed above a lock screen or while in a locked state.","In view of the exemplary systems described supra, methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks, it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks, as some blocks may occur in different orders and\/or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover, not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter.","Referring to , a method  of deploying software applications or portions thereof is depicted. At reference numeral , a software application or portion thereof is received, retrieved, or otherwise obtained or acquired. For example, a user can obtain an application such as a search application or social network application for deployment. At reference numeral , an acquired application is deployed above the lock screen of a computer. Once deployed, information can be provided to and from the user thereby enabling interaction with at least a subset of application functionality. Where additional interaction or functionality is desired, a transition can be made at reference numeral  from above the lock screen interaction to below the lock screen interaction. In other words, the lock, or lock screen, is transcended.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710"]},"At reference numeral , a search based on the query can be initiated, and search results can be acquired at numeral reference numeral . In accordance with one embodiment, the search functionality can be provided by a search-engine application resident on the computer and accessed from an interface above the lock screen by way of one or more application programming interfaces (APIs). Other implementations are possible and contemplated including separate applications for above a lock screen and below a lock screen. At reference numeral , the acquired search results can be rendered above the lock screen. In other words, the method  allows integration of search experiences above a lock screen, thus simplifying access to search functionality as well as content provided thereby.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","810","820","830"]},"At reference numeral , authentication can be performed in order to display a selected search result. For instance, if a search result is selected via an input, an authentication can be executed, wherein the authentication can be, but is not limited to, a password entry, a personal identification number (PIN) entry, a thumbprint, facial recognition, retina detection, secret question answer, biometric data, among others. At reference numeral , the selected search result can be rendered below the lock screen based upon a valid authentication. Stated differently, the locked state is relieved of a secure state in order to enable further application functionality upon selection of a search result and authentication.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","910"]},"At reference numeral , contextual data can be generated based on the at least one device input. For example, contextual data is any image, text, graphic, or displayable data that correlates with the location ascertained from the device input. As discussed, the contextual data can be a map, weather information, a mini-map, flight information, traffic data, goods location, service locations, among others. At reference numeral , contextual data can be rendered above a lock screen. For instance, the lock screen can render an unlock mechanism as well as contextual data generated based upon at least one device input.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1010","1020","1030","1040"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1110","1120","1130","1140"]},"At reference numeral , a determination is made whether there is privacy exposure for further execution of the subset of functionality related to the application. If the privacy exposure is non-existent or negligible, the method  continues to reference numeral . If the privacy exposure is existent or substantial, the methodology  continues to reference numeral . It is to be appreciated that the privacy exposure threshold can be user-defined, customized, or at a default setting. Continuing to reference numeral  if the privacy exposure is non-existent or negligible, the subset of functionality of the application can be executed above the lock screen. If the privacy exposure is existent or substantial, authentication can be implemented for a transition below the lock screen for further execution of the portion of the application at reference numeral .","What follows are a number of screen shots associated with aspects of the subject disclosure as provided with respect to a mobile phone. Such screen shots are merely exemplary and provided to graphically depict at least one embodiment of aspects of the disclosure. Of course, the subject disclosure is not intended to be limited to the location or presentation of graphical elements provided since there are a myriad of other ways to achieve the same or similar result. Further, while described with respect to mobile phones, the disclosed subject matter is not limited thereto and is suitable for other computers including mobile (e.g., tablets, laptops . . . ) as well as typically stationary devices (e.g., desktop computer, terminal)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1250","1200","1250","1210","1220","1230","1250","1200","1240"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1300","1320","1300","1240","1310","1320","1230","1300","1210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1230","1210","1410","1420","1410","1410","1420","1420","1430"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1500","1550","1500","1510","1520","1550","1530","1540"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 15"],"b":["1600","1650","1600","1650","1500","1550","1230"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIGS. 17 and 18","FIG. 13","FIG. 18"],"b":["1700","1750","1800","1850","1700","1320","1230","1240","1310","1230","1750","1710","1760","1240","1700","1800"]},"Turning to , the text box  remains, but a new drop down menu  is presented focused on topics related to the airport including the airport map. Selection of \u201cAll categories\u201d (depicted with a hashed dot) causes a new drop down menu  to be displayed with general topics of interest related to the airport as provided in screenshot .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1900","1210","1910","1950","1710","1920","1930","1940"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 19"],"b":["1900","1210","1910","2000","2010","2020","1710","2024","1930","1940"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["1900","1210","1210","2100","2110","2120","2130","2130","2140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIGS. 22 and 23","b":["2200","2250","2300","2310","2320","2200","1910","2250","2210","2220","2300","2310","2320"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["2400","2420","2440","2400","2410","2410","2420","2430","2440","2420","2440"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["2500","2520","2540","2500","2520","1640","2550","2550"]},"As used herein, the terms \u201ccomponent\u201d and \u201csystem,\u201d as well as forms thereof are intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an instance, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d or various forms thereof are used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Furthermore, examples are provided solely for purposes of clarity and understanding and are not meant to limit or restrict the claimed subject matter or relevant portions of this disclosure in any manner. It is to be appreciated a myriad of additional or alternate examples of varying scope could have been presented, but have been omitted for purposes of brevity.","As used herein, the term \u201cinference\u201d or \u201cinfer\u201d refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system, environment, and\/or user from a set of observations as captured via events and\/or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action, or can generate a probability distribution over states, for example. The inference can be probabilistic\u2014that is, the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher-level events from a set of events and\/or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and\/or stored event data, whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity, and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and\/or systems (e.g., support vector machines, neural networks, expert systems, Bayesian belief networks, fuzzy logic, data fusion engines . . . ) can be employed in connection with performing automatic and\/or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.","Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes,\u201d \u201ccontains,\u201d \u201chas,\u201d \u201chaving\u201d or variations in form thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as \u201ccomprising\u201d is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.","In order to provide a context for the claimed subject matter,  as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief, general description of a suitable environment in which various aspects of the subject matter can be implemented. The suitable environment, however, is only an example and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to scope of use or functionality.","While the above disclosed system and methods can be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions of a program that runs on one or more computers, those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects can also be implemented in combination with other program modules or the like. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, components, data structures, among other things that perform particular tasks and\/or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the above systems and methods can be practiced with various computer system configurations, including single-processor, multi-processor or multi-core processor computer systems, mini-computing devices, mainframe computers, as well as personal computers, hand-held computing devices (e.g., personal digital assistant (PDA), phone, watch . . . ), microprocessor-based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics, and the like. Aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However, some, if not all aspects of the claimed subject matter can be practiced on stand-alone computers. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in one or both of local and remote memory storage devices.","With reference to , illustrated is an example general-purpose computer  or computing device (e.g., desktop, laptop, server, hand-held, programmable consumer or industrial electronics, set-top box, game system . . . ). The computer  includes one or more processor(s) , memory , system bus , mass storage , and one or more interface components . The system bus  communicatively couples at least the above system components. However, it is to be appreciated that in its simplest form the computer  can include one or more processors  coupled to memory  that execute various computer executable actions, instructions, and or components stored in memory .","The processor(s)  can be implemented with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general-purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. The processor(s)  may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, multi-core processors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The computer  can include or otherwise interact with a variety of computer-readable media to facilitate control of the computer  to implement one or more aspects of the claimed subject matter. The computer-readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer  and includes volatile and nonvolatile media, and removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer-readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.","Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to memory devices (e.g., random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM) . . . ), magnetic storage devices (e.g., hard disk, floppy disk, cassettes, tape . . . ), optical disks (e.g., compact disk (CD), digital versatile disk (DVD) . . . ), and solid state devices (e.g., solid state drive (SSD), flash memory drive (e.g., card, stick, key drive . . . ) . . . ), or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer .","Communication media typically embodies computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","Memory  and mass storage  are examples of computer-readable storage media. Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device, memory  may be volatile (e.g., RAM), non-volatile (e.g., ROM, flash memory . . . ) or some combination of the two. By way of example, the basic input\/output system (BIOS), including basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer , such as during start-up, can be stored in nonvolatile memory, while volatile memory can act as external cache memory to facilitate processing by the processor(s) , among other things.","Mass storage  includes removable\/non-removable, volatile\/non-volatile computer storage media for storage of large amounts of data relative to the memory . For example, mass storage  includes, but is not limited to, one or more devices such as a magnetic or optical disk drive, floppy disk drive, flash memory, solid-state drive, or memory stick.","Memory  and mass storage  can include, or have stored therein, operating system , one or more applications , one or more program modules , and data . The operating system  acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . Applications  include one or both of system and application software and can exploit management of resources by the operating system  through program modules  and data  stored in memory  and\/or mass storage  to perform one or more actions. Accordingly, applications  can turn a general-purpose computer  into a specialized machine in accordance with the logic provided thereby.","All or portions of the claimed subject matter can be implemented using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to realize the disclosed functionality. By way of example and not limitation, the deployment system , or portions thereof, can be, or form part, of an application , and include one or more modules  and data  stored in memory and\/or mass storage  whose functionality can be realized when executed by one or more processor(s) .","In accordance with one particular embodiment, the processor(s)  can correspond to a system on a chip (SOC) or like architecture including, or in other words integrating, both hardware and software on a single integrated circuit substrate. Here, the processor(s)  can include one or more processors as well as memory at least similar to processor(s)  and memory , among other things. Conventional processors include a minimal amount of hardware and software and rely extensively on external hardware and software. By contrast, an SOC implementation of processor is more powerful, as it embeds hardware and software therein that enable particular functionality with minimal or no reliance on external hardware and software. For example, the deployment system  and\/or associated functionality can be embedded within hardware in a SOC architecture.","The computer  also includes one or more interface components  that are communicatively coupled to the system bus  and facilitate interaction with the computer . By way of example, the interface component  can be a port (e.g., serial, parallel, PCMCIA, USB, FireWire . . . ) or an interface card (e.g., sound, video . . . ) or the like. In one example implementation, the interface component  can be embodied as a user input\/output interface to enable a user to enter commands and information into the computer  through one or more input devices (e.g., pointing device such as a mouse, trackball, stylus, touch pad, keyboard, microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, camera, other computer . . . ). In another example implementation, the interface component  can be embodied as an output peripheral interface to supply output to displays (e.g., CRT, LCD, plasma . . . ), speakers, printers, and\/or other computers, among other things. Still further yet, the interface component  can be embodied as a network interface to enable communication with other computing devices (not shown), such as over a wired or wireless communications link.","What has been described above includes examples of aspects of the claimed subject matter. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter, but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Accordingly, the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications, and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 12-25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 26"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
