---
title: Coaxial interferometer and inspection probe
abstract: An optical probe has optical components of an interferometer and includes an optical axis, at least one optical source for emitting light along an illumination path that is at least partially coaxial with the optical axis, a first beam splitter and a first lens. The first beam splitter intersects the optical axis and splits the light from the at least one optical source into a first beam for traveling along a reference path that is coaxial with the optical axis to a reference surface and a second beam for traveling along a test path that is coaxial with the optical axis to a specimen. The first lens is interposed along the reference path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08705041&OS=08705041&RS=08705041
owner: Promet International, Inc.
number: 08705041
owner_city: Shoreview
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110520
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application is based on and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61\/348,917, filed May 27, 2010, the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The U.S. Government has a paid-up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. N68335-09-C-0422 awarded by Naval Air Warfare Center.","Fiber optic cables can be used to transmit data signals in telecommunications systems, computer networks, aircraft instrumentation, and other high speed communications services. Standard connectors terminate a fiber centered inside a shaft, or ferrule, and mate two fiber endfaces together in contact or close proximity. The ferrules plug into a socket or instrument panel to be optically coupled. Efficient fiber optic coupling requires a high degree of cleanliness to be maintained. Debris can scatter and interrupt data signals, and even physically damage the fiber endface, which requires costly hardware replacement and reinstallation. In addition, with regular use, a fiber can delaminate and protrude or retract from the mating interface, which can cause loss of data signals on otherwise clean and undamaged endfaces.","Interferometric microscopes inspect and qualify the endfaces of fiber optic connectors for submicron level damage, contamination, surface geometry, and fiber protrusion. Interferometric capability is required to critically measure endface geometry and to detect protrusion or delamination between a fiber and its ferrule.","The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","An optical probe has optical components for operating in an interferometer mode and in a microscope imaging mode. The optical probe includes an optical axis, at least one optical source for emitting light along an illumination path that is at least partially coaxial with the optical axis and a first beam splitter. The first beam splitter intersects the optical axis and splits the light from the at least one optical source into a first beam for traveling along a reference path that is coaxial with the optical axis to a reference surface and a second beam for traveling along a test path that is coaxial with the optical axis to a specimen. The first direction and the second direction are different.","The optical probe also includes a first lens interposed along the reference path between the reference surface and the first beam splitter and a second lens interposed between the first beam splitter and the specimen. The first lens provides a reference path for the first beam and the second lens provides a test path for the second beam. The first beam reflects off the reference surface and the second beam reflects off the specimen such that the two beams interfere along an imaging path that is coaxial with the optical axis.","The at least one optical source includes at least one first optical source configured to emit a first wavelength of light along at least a portion of the optical axis to operate the optical probe in the interference fringe imaging mode. The at least one optical source also includes at least one second optical source configured to emit a second wavelength of light different from the first wavelength of light along at least a portion of the optical axis to operate the optical probe in the microscope imaging mode.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.","Embodiments described herein include a probe having optical components for operating in an interference fringe imaging mode to determine geometry and health of a fiber optic endface that is recessed into a socket terminus. A beam splitter intersects an optical axis of the interferometer in the probe to split light from an optical source into a first beam for traveling along a reference path that is coaxial with the optical axis and a second beam for traveling along a test path that is coaxial with the optical axis. The first beam is reflected by a reference surface and the second beam is reflected by the fiber such that the first beam and the second beam interfere along an imaging path that is also coaxial with the optical axis.","In general, a fiber is plugged into an interference inspection device at the focal point and viewed or imaged for inspection. However, in many applications, fibers are already installed behind instrument or service panels in the field, i.e., in sockets or socket termini which are as small as 1.25 mm in diameter and up to 6 mm in depth, and cannot be readily accessed or removed for maintenance and inspection. As illustrated in the diagrammatic section view of , existing inspection devices, which include interferometric capabilities, have lenses or objectives, such as objective , that are large in size relative to the diameter of a socket terminus, such as socket terminus . Therefore, and in one example, imaging beam  cannot make clearance into socket  to inspect an endface surface  of fiber  located in a ferrule . As illustrated, imaging beam  is blocked at exterior  of socket . Blocking the beam in this manner makes the resolving power inadequate and unsuitable for the inspection. In another example, imaging beam  cannot focus deeply enough into socket  to reach endface surface .","While compact micro optic, fiber and\/or gradient index microscope-type probes are commercially available for inspecting recessed fiber endfaces and other low diameter clearance microscopy or endoscopy applications, such existing devices are unable to generate interference fringes, and therefore have no interferometric capability, and cannot measure endface geometry or fiber protrusion.","A Michelson-based interferometer is one configuration for producing an interference fringe image (for acquiring 3D surface information) in optical interferometry. A fringe image or pattern is generated by splitting a beam of light from a light source (i.e. via an illumination path) into two beams along two different out-of-axis beam paths by a beam splitter (i.e., half mirror). One beam is directed onto a reference mirror (i.e., via the reference path) and the other onto the specimen (i.e., via the test path). The beams reflect from the reference mirror and the specimen and are made to interfere to form a two-beam interference fringe pattern that is viewed and\/or captured by an image sensor (i.e. via an imaging path).","A Mirau-based interferometer has a high resolution objective that can acquire 3D information about a specimen by adding a beam splitter to the converging beam and a reference mirror on or near the objective. Splitting the beam requires one optical plate with a beam splitter coating and an additional compensation plate to match paths and enable interference. Interference fringes are present when the specimen with adequate reflection characteristics is placed at the focal plane of the objective. Mirau objectives are broadband interferometers where interference fringes can be removed from the raw images when the specimen is illuminated externally or back illuminated.","The coaxial location of the reference mirror in a Mirau objective is desirable for a compact configuration and stable interferometer. However, the focus is relatively close to the objective and therefore unsuitable for probe-based applications. Also, the interference field of view is limited to the diameter of the reference mirror which obscures and must be less than the diameter of the focusing beam exiting the lens objective. Another inherent constraint is that the working distance must be less than half of the focal distance of the lens objective to allow room for equal test and reference paths, in addition to fragile optical compensation plates near the specimen that could experience damage and debris.","The Linnik-based interferometer does not have the working distance constraint of the Mirau-based interferometer because its test and reference paths are not located between the microscope and specimen. Rather it contains lens objectives in each path with the reference path located off-axis and away from the test path. The first objective lens is interposed between the beam splitter and the reference mirror (i.e., in the reference path) and a second objective lens with an identical optical distance to the first objective lens is interposed between the beam splitter and the specimen (i.e., in the test path) for measuring minute details on a specimen.","With well-matched identical lens objectives the Linnik interferometer is able to achieve essentially zero optical path difference for interferometry and additionally compensate for spherical aberration and other optical aberrations. However, these objectives can be difficult to manufacture especially where complex identical lens objectives are required. In practice the Linnik arrangement is much larger in size and is mechanically less stable than the Mirau interferometer, making it even less suitable for compact, portable, or probe based optical devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["151","152","142","153","152","151","152","149","152","142","140","146","152"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["255","152","220","255","251","151","152","255","211","202","255","202","202","255","202","202"]},"A beam splitter  splits input light beam  into two beams  and  at point . A first beam  (illustrated schematically as single lined arrows) follows a reference path  through a first lens , which is interposed in first beam , onto a reference surface or mirror . A second beam  (illustrated schematically as unfilled arrows) follows a test path  through a second lens , which is interposed in second beam , onto a specimen . The reference path  and the test path  are coaxial along optical axis  and therefore the two beams are considered to be coaxial.","First lens  and second lens  intersect with reference path  and test path , respectively, and therefore, also optical axis . A first side  of first lens  is spaced apart from a beam splitter  and a second opposing side  of first lens  is spaced apart from reference surface . Likewise, a first side  of second lens  is spaced apart from beam splitter  and a second opposing side  of second lens  is spaced apart from specimen .","After first beam  follows reference path  and second beam  follows test path , first beam  reflects from or bounces off the reference surface  and second beam  reflects from or bounces off specimen . The reflections of first beam  and second beam  combine and interfere (illustrated schematically as double filled arrows) at point  to form a two-beam interference fringe pattern for capture by an image sensor  along an imaging path. An image sensor can include an area or linear sensor array, photographic film, or the eye. The imaging path is defined as being coaxial with the optical axis  and running between specimen  and the image sensor .","The coaxial nature of the reference and test paths  and  provide interferometer  with rotational symmetry. Rotational symmetry allows minimum diameter clearance in a socket terminus that does not require perpendicular folds in the imaging or interference paths near the test surface. This enables close proximity between the high numerical aperture probe and recessed or environmentally restricted surfaces under test. First and second lenses  and  located in the test and reference paths  and  include substantially identical optical path lengths and can be lengthened and miniaturized to suit the form factor of a variety of different sizes of inspection probe applications. For example, first and second lenses  and  can be gradient index objective lenses. However, other types of lenses could be used including lenses having substantially identical optical path lengths, such as convex, concave, spherical or aspherical glass or plastic lenses. The coaxial nature of the reference and test paths  and  of interferometer  also offers a mechanically stable relationship between reference and test paths  and  because the beam splitter  and reference surface  are attached to or are in proximity to the imaging optics . Imaging optics  are additional fixed focus or zoom lenses used to magnify and focus an image of the specimen  on imaging sensor .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["355","152","355","351","151","152","355","312","311","302","313","315","309","313","324","314","318","315","326","316","320","324","326","330","313","315","314","316","330"]},"After first beam  follows reference path  and second beam  follows test path , first beam  reflects from or bounces off the reference surface  and second beam  reflects from or bounces off specimen . The reflections of first beam  and second beam  combine and interfere (illustrated schematically as double filled arrows) at point  to form a two-beam interference fringe pattern for magnification and focus by imaging optics  and capture by an image sensor  along an imaging path. The imaging path is defined as being coaxial with the optical axis  and running between specimen , and the image sensor .","Unlike the first and second lenses of the coaxial interferometer  illustrated in , both first lens  and second lens  of coaxial interferometer  are directly coupled to beam splitter . For example, first lens  can be adhered to a first side  of beam splitter  and second lens  can be adhered to an opposing second side  of beam splitter . In this embodiment, first lens  is still spaced apart from reference surface  and second lens  is still spaced apart from specimen , but not spaced apart from beam splitter .","In addition, unlike the coaxial interferometer illustrated in , reference surface  is attached to imaging components  by, for example, an adhesive. Such a configuration provides for more stability for the rotationally symmetric interferometer .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["455","152","434","410","418","418","420","412","411","402","436","438","410","411","434","436","438","413","415","409","413","418","415","420","434","420"]},"After first beam  follows reference path  and second beam  follows test path , first beam  reflects from or bounces off the reference surface  and second beam  reflects from or bounces off specimen . The reflections of first beam  and second beam  combine and interfere (illustrated schematically as double filled arrows) at point  to form a two-beam interference fringe pattern for magnification and focus by imaging optics  and capture by an image sensor  along an imaging path. The imaging path is defined as being coaxial with the optical axis  and running between specimen  and the image sensor .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["555","152","512","511","502","530","511","513","515","509","513","524","514","518","515","526","516","520","514","516","514","516","518","518"]},"After first beam  follows reference path  and second beam  follows test path , first beam  reflects from or bounces off the reference surface  and second beam  reflects from or bounces off specimen . The reflections of first beam  and second beam  combine and interfere at point  (illustrated schematically as double filled arrows) to form a two-beam interference fringe pattern for magnification and focus by imaging optics  and capture by an image sensor  along an imaging path. The imaging path is defined as being coaxial with the optical axis  and running between specimen  and the image sensor .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIG. 10","FIGS. 8 and 9","FIG. 10","FIGS. 8 and 9"],"b":["652","653","620","652","620","652","652","651","651","652"]},"Optical probe  includes a coaxial two-beam interferometer . More particularly, optical probe  includes optical components that provide a microscope image mode and an interference fringe image mode. To switch between a microscope image mode and an interference fringe image mode, probe  includes dichroic or multi-wavelength function and switches with no moving parts and no external illumination source. Such multi-mode probe  includes front focal distance and field of view that are large relative to the lens diameter.","The interference fringe image mode of probe , and therefore interferometer , uses a first beam splitter . Like the interferometers illustrated in , a first beam splitter  is located between two lenses  and , such as two gradient index objective lenses, having substantially identical optical path lengths. More specifically, like the interferometer illustrated in , both first lens  and second lens  are directly coupled to first beam splitter . For example, first lens  can be adhered to a first side  of beam splitter  and second lens  can be adhered to an opposing second side  of beam splitter . However, as described in other embodiments, other configurations of first beam splitter  are possible.","In interference fringe mode, light from first optical source or sources  is combined at a second beam splitter plate or cube or second beam splitter plates or cubes , and folds or directs the combined light at a third beam splitter plate or cube . Third beam splitter intersects with the optical axis . While probe  in  illustrate first optical source  as having two optical sources, which would need to be combined at second beam splitter or splitters , first optical source  can also be a single optical source  as illustrated in . While probe  in  illustrate two second beam splitters , second beam splitter  can be a single beam splitter  as illustrated in . Imaging components  (i.e. lenses or lens objectives) pass input illumination  to the first beam splitter  through first lens . First beam splitter  splits input illumination  into two beams  and  at point . The first beam  (illustrated schematically as single lined arrows) follows a reference path  through a first lens  onto a reference surface  and the second beam  (illustrated schematically as single unfilled arrows) follows a test path  through a second lens  onto a specimen . The reference path  and the test path  are coaxial with the optical axis  and therefore the two beams  and  are also coaxial. Reference surface  is located on the same optical axis  and is attached to the imaging optics .","After first beam  follows reference path  and second beam  follows test path , first beam  reflects from or bounces off the reference surface  and second beam  reflects from or bounces off specimen . The reflections of first beam  and second beam  combine and interfere at point  (illustrated schematically as double filled arrows) to form a two-beam interference fringe pattern for magnification and focus by imaging optics  and capture by an image sensor or area array detector  along an imaging path. The imaging path is defined as being coaxial with the optical axis  and running between specimen  and the image sensor .","When first optical source or sources  is turned on, a first wavelength of light is emitted. For example, first optical source or sources  can emit red or orange light. As light travels to specimen , the dichroic coating on first beam splitter  allows the light to split into two substantially equal beams, utilizing both test path  and reference path , and interference takes place. Since interference fringes are present, optical probe  is working in interference mode. Optical probe  also includes a second optical source or sources . Second optical source or sources  is configured for use when optical probe  operates in a microscope imaging mode. When first optical source or sources  is turned off and second optical source or sources  is turned on, it emits a second wavelength of light. For example, second optical source or sources  can emit blue light. As light travels to specimen , instead of light being split at first beam splitter , a dichroic coating on first beam splitter  ensures that substantially all of the blue light travels through first beam splitter  with high transmission and substantially fails to reflect light to reference surface  via reference path . Since a reflection from reference surface  is required for interference to take place, there is no interference fringes present and only test path  is utilized. As a result, a microscope image is generated and optical probe  is working in microscope mode. Therefore, optical probe  is able to switch between microscope mode and interference mode using at least two different wavelengths of light and without using shutters or other moving parts.","The microscope image can comply with known standards and be capable of imaging to sensor array  at a magnification of the order of several pixels per micron with sufficient contrast to image submicron defects. This requires diffraction limited or near diffraction limited performance using 0.2 or higher object space numerical aperture. Because complete inspection of fiber optic endface health requires imaging with and without interference fringes, and external illumination is undesirable or unavailable, an internal illumination scheme is designed where interference fringes are present using one waveband and absent with another. This dual waveband illumination approach can qualify surface defects and 3D conditions separately, as in current state of the art endface inspection practices, but without moving parts such as shutters, or bulky off-axis sources for oblique illumination.","Optical probe  consists of a combination of gradient index lenses  and  having substantially identical optical path lengths, custom or off-the-shelf lenses and magnification optics , and beam splitters  and  that allow a light source or a plurality of light sources  and  to illuminate the test surface. An image sensor array  captures the image and displays features of the specimen . Submicron resolution can be achieved.","Gradient index lenses offer one millimeter diameters and sufficiently high numerical apertures (NA), and various lengths ideally suited for small diameter high aspect ratio socket clearance. In addition, the surface quality of the gradient index lens is sufficient to receive a dichroic half mirror or beam splitter coating for first beam splitter . This surface transmits and reflects the red and orange wavebands at 50% to create interference fringes (interference mode), while efficiently transmitting the blue waveband for simple imaging (microscope mode). The gradient index lenses transfer the image to a series of zoom lenses where aberrations are corrected and magnification is set or adjusted for the image.","In regards to image sensor array , magnification can be discretely varied by electronically switching the format of the sensor array (digital zoom) , allowing a fixed or non-zoom optical system with no moving parts.","In regards to optical sources  and , a Kohler illumination scheme projects the red, orange, and blue light sources on the object with uniform intensity. These light sources can be placed near the image sensor array  where a broadband 50\/50 third beam splitter plate or cube  separates the illumination source paths from the optical path along optical axis . An additional dichroic beam splitter plate or cube or beam splitter plates or cubes  allow the red, orange and blue wavebands to be delivered into the illumination path by multiple separate light sources or a single light source. These can be electronically switched on and off enabling a fringe imaging mode or a microscope imaging mode.","First beam splitter  consists of optical coatings applied to a substantially flat glass or polymer surface. When a series of dielectric coatings are applied in a calculated manner, the reflection and transmission characteristics of that surface can vary in intensity and can vary for different wavelengths of light incident on that surface. The coating is said to be dichroic if it behaves differently for one wavelength than it does for another. For a first wavelength of light and additional wavelengths of light, the coating transmits and reflects 50% at the beam splitter surface . The interference fringe contrast is maximized when the test and reference beams have equal intensity. While the dichroic beam splitter ensures this is the case for the interference waveband, the reflectivity of the object and reference mirror should also be equal. For a second wavelength of light, first beam splitter  efficiently transmits that wavelength of light and the device works in microscope mode.","In one embodiment, reference surface  has a reflection coefficient substantially equivalent to the specimen. For example, if the specimen is a fiber optic endface having a 4% Fresnel reflection coefficient, then the reference surface also has a 4% Fresnel reflection coefficient for equal intensity. As illustrated in , the reference surface  is coaxially located inside the optical system so its reflection, transmission and absorption coefficients are critical to proper function. In one embodiment, the substrate of reference surface  is selected to absorb the non-reflected portion of the beam by using an opaque absorptive filter glass material. Absorption of the unreflected portion of the beam stops it from reaching the sensor array  and significantly saturating it with intense background illumination.","Similarly, when light is incident on the endface of a fiber optic connector, the vast majority of the light is transmitted and couples into the fiber core. This is an inherent drawback to coaxial illumination of a fiber optic endface, as the coupled light efficiently transmits along the length of the fiber to its opposite endface. There it undergoes a 4% reflection, and returns to the endface under test where it transmits to the sensor array as part of the image. This causes the fiber core to appear brighter than the background, similar in appearance to the defects or debris such devices are designed to detect, and produce a spurious signal.","Under one embodiment, the illumination scheme illustrated in  can prevent low numerical aperture (NA) or low incidence angles of light from reaching the specimen  or fiber endface by selecting a proper light source or position. Also, a central obscuration can be placed in the illumination path or imaging optics  to block or attenuate such rays from reaching the specimen . In one embodiment, the reference surface  can also serve as a central obscuration in the imaging path. By proper selection of its size or diameter, it is used to block such rays and reduce or remove this spurious artifact. For example and under one embodiment, the size or diameter of the reference surface is selected based on a function of the numerical aperture (NA) of the fiber. The coaxial location of the reference surface  performs a specific function in microscope mode as well as in fringe mode, without being visible in the image or reducing the cutoff resolution frequency of the imaging system it partially obscures.","The diameters of the light sources used for fringe mode are restricted to match the diameter of the reference surface  upon magnification. This maximizes the area where fringes are visible on the object, and prevents unwanted light from leaking around the reference surface  and reaching the sensor array  without first undergoing interference.","The most cost effective optical design maximizes versatility by using one customized prescription of imaging optics for a variety of measurement tasks. The optics can be mechanically repackaged to suit each type of connector terminus using interchangeable probe bodies. The preferred interchangeable optical portion of the probe includes the identical lens objectives and beam splitter surface (i.e., the distal section  of probe ). For example if the socket  in  had a larger or smaller diameter, the parts located in the test path  and reference path  in  can be detached and switched in the field to suit the application. This interchangeable tip or distal section  includes parts , , and .","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.","Beside inspection of fiber endfaces, various other ways to apply the disclosed embodiments are possible. For example, interference microscopy for light sensitive or environmentally restricted materials or biomaterials, in-situ interference microscopy where test tubes, capillary tubes or extraction is required to prepare samples for microscopy, and for interference probes, interference endoscopy, and immersion microscopy."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 8 and 9"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
