---
title: Read-ahead techniques for data logging
abstract: Radio messages may be transmitted by endpoints delivering utility consumption data. A portable unit may traverse a route among the endpoints and obtain the consumption data. If the endpoints are sufficiently grouped, communication between the portable unit and a plurality of endpoints may be possible in a same power cycle to a radio of the portable unit while the portable unit is at a single location. In a two-way communication environment, the portable unit may send commands to a plurality of endpoints during a single power cycle, which may result in responses from the plurality of endpoints during the same power cycle. Such communications may be performed with endpoints that are ahead of a current endpoint on the route being traversed, and may constitute read-ahead data. Read-ahead data reduces power cycles to the radio, because when the portable unit reaches an endpoint on the route whose data has previously been read, a power cycle is not required.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594599&OS=08594599&RS=08594599
owner: 
number: 08594599
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20110624
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["This patent application claims priority to related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/168,704, titled \u201cConditional Command Data Reading Techniques\u201d, filed on Jun. 24, 2011, commonly assigned herewith, and hereby incorporated by reference.","Utility companies (\u201cutilities\u201d) have been providing resources, such as electricity, natural gas and water to customers for years. Meters may be used to measure consumption of the resources by the customers. Such meters may be enhanced with additional functionality, such as radio transmission, and may be considered an \u201cendpoint.\u201d These endpoints may then be read remotely by a portable meter reading device. Traditionally, an employee of the utility walks or drives along a route using a portable meter reading device to collect the meter data of meters along the route.","However, closely-grouped endpoints provide a jumble of signals to a portable unit attempting to read information from the endpoints. In particular, two-way communication with a plurality of endpoints remains problematic.","Overview","An example illustrating some of the techniques discussed herein\u2014not to be considered a full or comprehensive discussion\u2014may assist the reader to understand techniques for collecting metering data associated with resource consumption in a utility (e.g., electric, gas or water) setting. The example includes operation of computer server(s), portable unit(s) and endpoint(s). Example techniques describe enhancements for two-way communication between a portable unit and endpoints. In a first example, read-ahead techniques for data logging are discussed. Such read-ahead techniques obtain data not only of a current endpoint of concern, but also a plurality of other endpoints that may be within radio range. Such data is buffered and available for later use, thereby reducing a number of radio cycles. In a second example, conditional command data reading techniques (\u201creflex reads\u201d) are discussed. Such techniques may iteratively recognize conditions in an endpoint, select a command consistent with the recognized conditions, and transmit the selected command.","A server, head-end or central office computing device may exchange data with one or more portable units. The data exchange may include downloading to the portable unit one or more lists of endpoints and one or more sets of conditional commands. Additionally, the server may receive or upload, from portable unit(s), consumption data of a plurality of endpoints. The consumption data may be organized in a predetermined manner, such as a conventional or agreed upon format or data structure. In some cases, and with respect to certain particular endpoints, the consumption data may be supplemented with additional information. Such information may include pro-rata data reflecting a change in the customer at a specific endpoint during mid-month or mid-billing cycle (e.g., move-in\/move-out data), battery strength information, meter tampering information, meter failure information, and optionally data of other types.","In cases where the data is supplemented, the additional data may have been obtained by interrogation of the endpoints by commands provided by the server to the portable unit. The commands may be passed from the server to the portable unit as part of the list of endpoints. The list of endpoints may be organized into a \u201croute,\u201d i.e. a sequential grouping of endpoints that a meter-reading employee of a utility may traverse, while in possession of the portable unit, in the course of a work day or other period of time. The commands within the list of endpoints may be considered \u201cprimary\u201d commands, in that they may be associated with a particular endpoint ID and are transmitted to that endpoint without regard to conditions at that endpoint.","Additionally, the server may provide the portable unit with a set of conditional commands. Each conditional command may be associated with conditions. If the conditions are met by a particular endpoint, the conditional command associated with the satisfied conditions is sent to that endpoint by the portable unit.","The portable unit may be a hand held unit or a mobile unit adapted for vehicle use. A two-way radio allows communication with endpoints along a route associated with a list of endpoints downloaded from the server. In one example, the list of endpoints contained within memory of the portable unit may include a list of endpoint IDs. One or more of the endpoint IDs may be associated with one or more commands. That is, any endpoint ID in the list of endpoints may, in its individual capacity, be associated with one or more commands. Other endpoint IDs within the list of endpoints may be associated with one or more commands, which may be the same or different commands than are associated with other endpoint IDs. These primary commands are submitted to the associated endpoint without regard to circumstances. That is, there are no conditions or circumstances that must be met or satisfied before these commands are sent to the endpoint associated with the endpoint ID. One or more conditional commands may be submitted to any endpoint having circumstances which satisfy the conditions associated with the one or more conditional commands.","In one example, the portable unit moves along a route inspired by the order of the list of endpoints. The portable unit is moved to a location adjacent to a \u201ccurrent\u201d endpoint. Data for endpoints prior to the current endpoint have already been collected and logged into a data structure. For example, data for endpoints prior to the current endpoint have already been copied from the buffer and populated into a data structure or format for upload to a head-end. At the location adjacent to the current endpoint, the operator may provide input (such as by pressing a button) to the portable unit. If data associated with the current endpoint has already been collected and buffered within memory of the portable unit, it may be loaded or populated into a data structure for later upload to the server. In one example, data is passed from the buffer to an API, which transfers the data to an application. The application may then load the data structure. Data in the buffer may have been received in a previous radio cycle, and may be considered to be \u201cread ahead\u201d data, in that it was obtained by the radio \u201creading ahead\u201d of the current location to obtain data from endpoint(s) further along the route. Buffered read-ahead data is advantageous, since power does not have to be cycled to the radio of the portable unit to log such data. However, if data associated with the current endpoint is not yet stored in memory of the portable device, power is cycled to the radio of the portable unit.","In a radio cycle of the portable unit, the radio listens (receives) messages sent by one or more endpoints. Such messages may include an ID of the endpoint, consumption data and additional information and\/or flags. Such messages may be referred to as \u201cstandard consumption messages,\u201d in that they contain the information typically required to provide a bill or invoice to the customer associated with the endpoint. In particular, the consumption data may describe the usage of the customer, in terms of kilowatt hours, cubic feet of natural gas, cubic feet of water or other units of the same or different resources.","In an example cycle of power to the radio of the portable unit (e.g., 5, 10 or 60 seconds long), one or more (e.g., 1, 10, 100) such standard consumption messages may be heard from that many different endpoints. The cycling of power to the radio may reduce the duty cycle of the radio to below fifty percent of total operating time of the portable unit, and may reduce radio duty cycle to a much smaller percentage. Due to location, the standard consumption message of the current endpoint will be among those read (received) by the portable unit. The data associated with the current endpoint may be logged into an appropriate location in the data structure to be uploaded to the server when the portable device is reconnected to the server. The data associated with other endpoints (not previously processed) may be buffered, so that the data will be available in the buffer, for logging into the data structure, without a further radio cycle.","During the radio cycle, the list of endpoints is examined to determine if the current endpoint, or any other endpoint from which a message was received, is associated with a (primary) command. Within the radio cycle, or a subsequent radio cycle, as many such commands as possible are transmitted. The commands may be based in part on reception of messages from the endpoints, which are received in a random manner (i.e., not in the order of the list of endpoints). Because the commands are transmitted to the endpoints in an order based on receipt of messages from the endpoints, the commands are transmitted in a random manner. Because of physical proximity of the portable unit to the current endpoint, a command will typically be sent to that endpoint during a power and\/or radio cycle. In the case of read-ahead endpoints, the responses to the commands are buffered. The response to a command (if any) of the current endpoint is processed and associated data is added to the data structure.","During the radio cycle, one or more endpoints may exhibit conditions consistent with one or more conditional commands. For example, an endpoint may indicate that there is a water leak sensor attached to the endpoint. This condition may satisfy the conditions associated with a command that asks for data from the water leak sensor. Such data may not be part of the standard consumption message because most endpoints may not have such leak sensors. In this example, a conditional command, asking for leak sensor data, may be sent to the appropriate endpoint. Data from any conditional command(s) associated with the current endpoint may be added to the data structure for later upload to the server. Data from conditional commands associated with other endpoints may be buffered for later addition to the data structure, such as when that endpoint becomes the current endpoint.","More than one conditional command may be sent to a single endpoint. This may be the case when the conditions change and\/or evolve. For example, a set flag may trigger a command asking for status. The response may indicate possible tampering with the meter of the endpoint. A subsequent conditional command may ask for a dump of all information about meter tampering. Such detailed data may not be a part of the standard consumption message initially sent by the endpoint because such circumstances are rare, and such data would unnecessarily clutter the standard consumption message.","The discussion herein includes several sections. Each section is intended to be non-limiting. More particularly, this entire description is intended to illustrate components which may be utilized in read-ahead techniques for data logging and conditional command data reading techniques, but not components which are necessarily required. The discussion begins with a section entitled \u201cExample Data Logging System,\u201d which describes one environment that may implement the techniques described herein. This section depicts and describes data logging, the buffering of read-ahead commands and the use of conditional commands using a high-level architecture. Next, a section entitled \u201cExample Portable Unit\u201d illustrates and describes aspects that can be used in the structure and operation of a portable device to gather resource consumption data and related information. A third section, entitled \u201cExample Read-Ahead Techniques\u201d illustrates and describes techniques that may be used to receive and buffer data from endpoints beyond a current endpoint during a power cycle of the radio of a portable unit. A fourth section, entitled \u201cExample Primary and Conditional Command Techniques\u201d illustrates and describes techniques that may be used to send primary commands and techniques that identify conditions associated with conditional commands and that transmit such commands. A fifth section, entitled \u201cExample Methods\u201d illustrates and describes techniques that may be used to implement read-ahead techniques and conditional command techniques. Finally, the discussion ends with a brief conclusion.","This brief introduction, including section titles and corresponding summaries, is provided for the reader's convenience and is not intended to limit the scope of the claims or any section of this disclosure.","Example Data Logging System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","104","104","104","106"]},"As shown in , the server  may include one or more applications . The applications  may include programs having a variety of purposes and classifications, such as operating system, communications, data logging, data and memory management, portable unit management and other purposes.","The server  may also include a memory and data storage device , which may be based on magnetic disk, tape, RAID (redundant array of inexpensive disks), solid state, flash memory or other technology. The memory and data storage device  may contain data obtained by the portable unit . In particular, the memory and data storage device  may be configured to store consumption data obtained from endpoints , as well as information received from commands sent to the endpoints. Additionally, the memory and data storage device  may be configured to store lists of endpoints and\/or sets of conditional commands for download to one or more portable units.","The portable unit  may include a radio , configured for two-way communication with the endpoints . The radio may be designed to function at a plurality of different frequencies in a rotating or simultaneous manner. Additionally, the radio may be configured for operation in a cyclical manner (i.e., turned on for set periods or for a set duty cycle), or for operation during timed periods initiated by input from an operator.","The portable unit  may have an interface with the server, allowing it to download data including a list of endpoints, a set of conditional commands and other data as needed. The interface also allows the upload of consumption data, endpoint information and other data. The portable unit  may include a list of endpoints . This list may be downloaded from the server , and may be defined in memory of the portable unit . The list of endpoints  may include endpoint IDs of a plurality of endpoints . Additionally, the list of endpoints  may associate one or more endpoint IDs with a command. Such commands may be associated with an endpoint ID by the server , such as when additional information is required from the endpoint . Additional information may be required, for example, if a customer is moving out mid-month and a mid-month consumption reading is required. The list of endpoints  may form the basis for a \u201croute\u201d to be traversed by an operator of the portable device .","The portable unit  may include a set of conditional commands . The set of conditional commands  may be downloaded from the server , and may be defined in memory of the portable unit . During traversal of the route associated with the list of endpoints, one or more conditional command, from the set of conditional commands , may be sent to one or more endpoints  from among the list of endpoints .","Each endpoint  may be associated with a residence, business or other consumer . The endpoint  may include a resource consumption meter , e.g. an electric meter, a gas meter and\/or a water meter, or other resource meter. Additionally, each endpoint may include a two-way radio , configured to communicate with the radio  of the portable unit  using radio messages . Logic  within the endpoint  may include a microprocessor, a programmable device such as gate array, programmable array logic (PAL) or application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or other device configured to provide the functionality described herein. A memory device  may include data , such as consumption data and information obtained from one or more sensors, such as tamper sensors , leak sensors , battery level sensors and\/or estimators , etc. Battery life estimators may estimate battery life based on past usage, including a number of transmit cycles and the amount of time elapsed with the processor running, etc. A battery  provides power to the various components. Cabling  may provide connectivity to various devices, such as sensors, including the leak sensor , the battery sensor  and the tamper sensor .","Example Portable Unit",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["104","112","106","104","202","202","204","202","206","204","204","202"]},"Low level logic or logic  may be provided, and may include a microprocessor, processor or controller and associated software, firmware or machine code. Alternatively or additionally, the logic may include a programmable device such as a gate array, programmable array logic (PAL) or application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) other technology having sufficient speed and versatility. The logic  may be configured for special purposes, such as examining data obtained by the radio  from an endpoint, and determining if a conditional command should be sent to the endpoint in response. The logic  may be faster than the application , or included as a specialized portion of the application.","A user interface  may include both software and hardware components. In one example, the user interface  includes a display screen, a keyboard or keypad, function buttons, a speaker, etc. The function buttons may include a button to cycle power to the radio  for a predefined period of time.","A battery  provides power to the portable unit , allowing an operator to transport the portable unit along a route associated with a plurality of endpoints, to thereby gather data for later transmission to the server or central office.","The memory  may also contain the list of endpoints  and the set of conditional commands . The list of endpoints  includes a plurality of endpoints ,  etc. Collectively, the endpoints in the list of endpoints  may constitute a \u201croute\u201d that may be traversed by the operator of the portable device . By moving the portable device  into the geographic vicinity of each endpoint on the list of endpoints , consumption data and\/or other information may be gathered from each endpoint. The consumption data is particularly relevant to the server or central office for billing purposes, while other information may be useful for endpoint maintenance, issues of meter tampering or other factors.","Each endpoint ,  may or may not be associated with a command . That is, each endpoint in the list of endpoints may include an individual association with one or more commands. In the example of , an endpoint represented by endpoint ID  is associated with a command , while the endpoint represented by endpoint ID  is not associated with a command. Such commands may be referred to as \u201cprimary\u201d commands, and are entered into the list of endpoints  by the server or central office so that a command will be sent to an endpoint. Typically, the command is a request for additional information. For example, if a customer is moving out of a residence on a mid-billing cycle date, there may be a need to split the bill for that month with a new customer. Thus, the command may ask for additional pro-rata billing information. Alternatively, the command may order the endpoint to reset a sensor, adjust radio signal strength or make any of a number of other changes, adjustments or calibrations.","The set of conditional commands  may include a number of conditional commands  and associated conditions . In operation, the portable unit  may receive messages from endpoints that indicate conditions of those endpoints. Such conditions may be recognized by the application , as executed by the processor . However, due to timing constraints, the conditions may be recognized by low level logic , which may include machine code or hardware logic that more rapidly recognizes the conditions. Once the conditions are recognized, a command (e.g. command ) associated with the recognized conditions (e.g., conditions ) may be transmitted to an endpoint having the recognized conditions.","Data, database, object or data structure  may be configured as required and\/or appropriate for containing and transmitting data collected by the portable unit  to the server or central office (, ). Accordingly, data obtained from endpoints in the list of endpoints  may be populated into the data . In one example, data from the buffer  may be passed to an API and into the application , which populates the data into .","A buffer  may be used by the portable unit  as a temporary repository of data sent by one or more endpoints. In one example, data may be obtained from endpoints in an out-of-order sequence. Such data may be considered \u201cread-ahead\u201d data. Read-ahead data is data that is read and\/or received before data associated with the current endpoint. The current endpoint is a first endpoint in the list of endpoints for which data has not yet been populated into a format and\/or structure  for upload to a head-end . When obtained, read-ahead data may be temporarily stored in the buffer  until it may be populated into the data structure .","Example Read-Ahead Techniques",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","104","302","114","204","104","304","316","304","316","114"]},"Data for each endpoint may be obtained from one or more sources. First, the portable unit  receives a message (e.g., a \u201cstandard consumption message\u201d) from endpoints that are within radio range. Such messages may include an identification of the endpoint (e.g., an endpoint ID) and consumption data (e.g., how many kilowatt hours of electricity have been consumed). Such messages may be \u201cpushed\u201d from the endpoints, i.e., they are spontaneously and\/or periodically sent from the endpoints, and are typically not sent in response to a request. Such messages may be said to \u201cbubble up\u201d from the endpoints.","A second source of data for some endpoints results from responses to a \u201cprimary\u201d command associated with the endpoint. As seen in the list of endpoints  (), some endpoints may be associated with a command. Primary commands may be sent upon receipt of a standard consumption message \u201cpushed\u201d from an endpoint. When a response is received to the primary command, the response may be recorded by the portable unit . In particular, if the response to the primary command is received from the current endpoint, it may be recorded with data , and otherwise it may be buffered at  until needed (see ).","A third source of data is responses by endpoints to conditional commands. As seen in the set of conditional commands  (see ), conditions of each endpoint may be analyzed to see if they meet certain conditions. Conditions may be indicated by flags or data sent in messages from the endpoints. If conditions (e.g., conditions ) are met, then an associated command (e.g. command ) may be transmitted. Responses to such conditional commands may be buffered or logged by the portable unit  as it traverses the route .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["104","306","310","306","304","306","104","224","226"]},"Example Primary and Conditional Command Techniques",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","106","104","106","402","106"]},"The portable unit  may cycle power to its radio, providing a number of seconds or minutes of two-way operation. During this period of time, the consumption message  (e.g., a standard consumption message) is received by the portable unit . Reception of the consumption message  alerts the portable unit  to the proximity of the endpoint from which the consumption message was sent. If the consumption message has not previously been saved, the portable unit may save the consumption message . In one example, if the endpoint from which the consumption message was sent is the current endpoint, data from the consumption is saved into data structure  (). If the endpoint from which the consumption message was sent is past the current endpoint on the route (i.e., later on the list of endpoints), the read-ahead data from the consumption may be saved into buffer  for later transfer to the data structure  ().","In one example, reception of a consumption message  by the portable unit  causes the portable unit to search the list of endpoints  for a command (e.g., command  in ) associated with the endpoint sending the consumption message (e.g., endpoint ). The search may be performed by the application  () or the firmware and\/or low level logic , which may provide the required speed if the radio cycle is short. The search may find such a primary command in the list of endpoints associated with the endpoint. The command  illustrates that situation. Command  can be considered a \u201cprimary\u201d command, in that it is authorized or mandated by the server, head-end or central office  that created the list of endpoints. Accordingly,  shows that the primary command  may be transmitted from the portable unit to the endpoint .","Upon receipt of the primary command , the endpoint  may respond by sending a response  to the primary command. In one example, the response  may include consumption data (such as a pro-rata division of a billing period according to a change in customer responsibility). In another example, the response  may include data concerning maintenance or condition of the endpoint  and\/or included meters, radio, battery, etc.","A conditional command  may be sent by the portable unit . If a condition or circumstance of the endpoint  is met, then a conditional command is sent by the portable unit  to the endpoint . In one example, low level logic  (or the application , if the radio cycle is long enough) examines the set of conditional commands  (see ) and determines if the conditions (e.g., condition ) associated with a conditional command (e.g., command ) is appropriate. If the conditions of a command are true, then a conditional command  is sent.","Upon receipt of a conditional command , the endpoint may reply with a response  to the conditional command. In some cases, a further conditional command  from the portable unit may be indicated by conditions, and a response  is therefore sent by the endpoint.","Example Methods","The acts comprising the example methods may be performed under control of one or more processors and\/or logic configured with executable instructions and\/or hardware coding. Additionally or alternatively, the acts may be performed using one or more computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors to perform the acts.","Regarding media and memory, note that the portable unit  may have additional features and\/or functionality. For example, the portable unit  may also include additional data storage devices (removable and\/or non-removable) such as, for example, magnetic disks, optical disks, or tape. Such additional storage may include removable storage and\/or non-removable storage. Computer-readable media may include, volatile and non-volatile, removable, and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information, such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. The memory , the removable storage and the non-removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), electrically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM), flash memory or other memory technology, compact disk-read only memory (CD-ROM), digital versatile disks (DVD), or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other non-transmission medium that can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the portable unit . Any such computer readable media may be part of the portable unit . Moreover, the computer-readable media may include computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor(s)  or logic , perform various functions and\/or operations described herein. As defined herein, computer readable media does not include transitory media such as carrier waves and data signals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"500"},"At , an input is received at the portable unit from an operator. In one example, the operator presses a button on the portable unit , which may be part of the user interface  ().","At , if data for a \u201ccurrent\u201d endpoint is available and buffered, then the data is utilized. The current endpoint may be a first endpoint in the list of endpoints for which data has either not been obtained, or has not yet been populated into a format for upload to a head-end. The data required for the current endpoint may be available due to previous read-ahead activity by the portable unit. In particular, while a previous endpoint was the \u201ccurrent\u201d endpoint, the data from the current \u201ccurrent\u201d endpoint may have been obtained by reading ahead. Accordingly, the data required for the current endpoint may be available and buffered.","At , if the data is not available, then power is cycled to a radio within the portable unit. The power cycle can be of any duration, such as several seconds, several minutes or more. In a first example, the length of the power cycle is based on a targeted read, such as a read of the current endpoint. Once data has been obtained from the endpoint(s) associated with the targeted read, the power cycle to the radio is concluded. If the read of data associated with the targeted endpoint is not concluded within a pre-configured timeout, the radio cycle is also concluded. In another example, the scheduled end of the power cycle may be extended to allow reception of a response to a command sent prior to the scheduled end of the power cycle. In a further example, the length of a power cycle may be based, at least in part, on a number of messages from endpoints received.","At , messaged from endpoints in a list of endpoints are received. The messages may include messages from previously processed endpoints, which can be ignored. Messages from the current endpoint and other endpoints beyond the current endpoint may be received.","At , messages from endpoints beyond the current endpoint are buffered. These messages and data are read-ahead data. Data from the current endpoint is utilized. In this example, read-ahead data is buffered (e.g., at  in ), while data associated with the current endpoint may be utilized, such as by populating the data structure  in .","At , a \u201cprimary\u201d command may be sent to an endpoint (either the current endpoint or an endpoint beyond the current endpoint). The primary command may be sent if such a command is associated with the endpoint ID of the endpoint in the list of endpoints. Note that a number of different primary commands may exist, and that the particular primary command to be sent is specifically indicated by the list of endpoints. In the example of , the command  is sent to the endpoint having a particular endpoint ID . In the example of , primary command  is sent from the portable unit  to the endpoint . In a further example, receiving a message may trigger a search (by endpoint ID) of the list of endpoints for a command associated with the endpoint from which the message was received.","At , a response, sent by the endpoint to which the command was sent, is received at the portable unit.","At , data from responses by endpoints beyond the current endpoint (i.e., read-ahead data) is buffered (e.g., at  in ), while data from the current response may be populated into a data structure (e.g. data structure  in ) for later transmission to the server at the central office and\/or head-end. Regarding the data associated with the current endpoint, an application programming interface (API) may be called to move the data into the application. The application then loads the data structure. Similarly, the buffered data may later be moved to the application  by calling on an API as it is needed.","Therefore,  illustrates an example by which read-ahead techniques utilize two-way communications, and a buffer is populated with read-ahead data from endpoints beyond the current endpoint.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},"At , a message is received from an endpoint, possibility including an endpoint ID, consumption data and flags or other data. At , a primary command may be sent to the endpoint having the included endpoint ID. Whether a primary command should be sent, and the particular primary command to be sent, may be indicated by the list of endpoints. In one example, the list of endpoints may be searched, by low level logic or by a processor running low level code (e.g., firmware), for an endpoint having the ID indicated by the received message.","At , a response, sent by the endpoint to the portable unit , is read. At , flags set in the response are recognized. The flags may indicate conditions present at the endpoint. Accordingly, at  those conditions are recognized, such as by decoding the flags or otherwise examining data transmitted in the response.","At , a conditional command is selected (if warranted and\/or indicated) according to the flags and\/or conditions. Such a conditional command is sent in response to conditions present at the endpoint. At , the conditional command is sent to the endpoint. At , data sent by the endpoint in response to the conditional command is read by the portable unit.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather, the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The detailed description is described with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures, the left-most digit(s) of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. The same numbers are used throughout the drawings to reference like features and components. Moreover, the figures are intended to illustrate general concepts, and not to indicate required and\/or necessary elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
