---
title: Select band-scanning by a multi-sim user equipment (UE) in a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a wireless communications device (WCD) is provisioned with a plurality of subscriber identity modules (SIMs). The WCD determines a first set of bands (BAND) that is associated with a first SIM and a second set of bands (BAND) associated with a second SIM. In a first embodiment, the WCD generates a combined band for the first and second SIMs and then scans the combined band to detect a set of target networks for camping in association with at least the first and second SIMs. In a second embodiment, the WCD scans BAND to detect a first set of target networks for camping in association with the first SIM, and then excludes, from the BAND, bands that overlap with BAND. The WCD then scans the reduced BAND to detect to detect a second set of target networks for camping in association with the second SIM.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08433318&OS=08433318&RS=08433318
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08433318
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110414
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","Embodiments of the invention relate to selective band-scanning by a mobile communications device that includes multiple subscriber identity modules (SIMs) in a wireless communications system.","2. Relevant Background","Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations, including a first-generation analog wireless phone service (1G), a second-generation (2G) digital wireless phone service (including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks) and a third-generation (3G) high speed data\/Internet-capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use, including Cellular and Personal Communications Service (PCS) systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS), and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA), Orthogonal FDMA (OFDMA), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), the Global System for Mobile access (GSM) variation of TDMA, and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.","The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association\/Electronic Industries Association in TIA\/EIA\/IS-95-A entitled \u201cMobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System,\u201d referred to herein as IS-95. Combined AMPS & CDMA systems are described in TIA\/EIA Standard IS-98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT-2000\/UM, or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000\/Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA (W-CDMA), CDMA2000 (such as CDMA2000 1xEV-DO standards, for example) or TD-SCDMA.","In W-CDMA wireless communication systems, user equipments (UEs) receive signals from fixed position Node Bs (also referred to as cell sites or cells) that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network (AN)\/radio access network (RAN), which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service (QoS) requirements. Therefore, the Node Bs generally interacts with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol (IP) network data packets.","In wireless telecommunication systems, Push-to-talk (PTT) capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a \u201cdispatch\u201d voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures, such as W-CDMA, CDMA, FDMA, TDMA, GSM, etc. In a dispatch model, communication between endpoints (e.g., UEs) occurs within virtual groups, wherein the voice of one \u201ctalker\u201d is transmitted to one or more \u201clisteners.\u201d A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call, or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group, which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information, such as group name or group identification.","In an embodiment, a wireless communications device (WCD) is provisioned with a plurality of subscriber identity modules (SIMs). The WCD determines a first set of bands (BAND) that is associated with a first SIM and a second set of bands (BAND) associated with a second SIM. In a first embodiment, the WCD generates a combined band for the first and second SIMs and then scans the combined band to detect a set of target networks for camping in association with at least the first and second SIMs. In a second embodiment, the WCD scans BAND to detect a first set of target networks for camping in association with the first SIM, and then excludes, from the BAND, bands that overlap with BAND. The WCD then scans the reduced BAND to detect to detect a second set of target networks for camping in association with the second SIM.","Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally, well-known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.","The words \u201cexemplary\u201d and\/or \u201cexample\u201d are used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d and\/or \u201cexample\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise, the term \u201cembodiments of the invention\u201d does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature, advantage or mode of operation.","Further, many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by, for example, elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits (e.g., application specific integrated circuits (ASICs)), by program instructions being executed by one or more processors, or by a combination of both. Additionally, these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus, the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms, all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition, for each of the embodiments described herein, the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as, for example, \u201clogic configured to\u201d perform the described action.","A High Data Rate (HDR) subscriber station, referred to herein as user equipment (UE), may be mobile or stationary, and may communicate with one or more access points (APs), which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller (RNC). The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network (RAN). A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple UEs.","The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network, such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet, the Internet, public switched telephone network (PSTN), a Serving General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) Support Node (SGSN), a Gateway GPRS Support Node (GGSN), and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE, and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel (TCH) connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card, compact flash device, external or internal modem, or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B(s) is called an uplink channel (e.g., a reverse traffic channel, a control channel, an access channel, etc.). The communication link through which Node B(s) send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel (e.g., a paging channel, a control channel, a broadcast channel, a forward traffic channel, etc.). As used herein the term traffic channel (TCH) can refer to either an uplink\/reverse or downlink\/forward traffic channel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","120","102","126","102","108","110","112","102","108","110","112"]},"Referring back to , the components of the wireless communications system  and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System  is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs, such as wireless client computing devices , , ,  to communicate over-the-air between and among each other and\/or between and among components connected via the air interface  and RAN , including, without limitation, core network , the Internet, PSTN, SGSN, GGSN and\/or other remote servers.","The RAN  controls messages (typically sent as data packets) sent to a RNC . The RNC  is responsible for signaling, establishing, and tearing down bearer channels (i.e., data channels) between a Serving General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) Support Node (SGSN) and the UEs \/\/\/. If link layer encryption is enabled, the RNC  also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC  is well-known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network  may communicate with the RNC  by a network, the Internet and\/or a public switched telephone network (PSTN). Alternatively, the RNC  may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically, the network or Internet connection between the core network  and the RNC  transfers data, and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC  can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network , the RNC  is typically connected to the Node Bs  by a network, the Internet and\/or PSTN for data transfer and\/or voice information. The Node Bs  can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs, such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs , RNC  and other components may form the RAN , as is known in the art. However, alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example, in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC  and one or more of the Node Bs  may be collapsed into a single \u201chybrid\u201d module having the functionality of both the RNC  and the Node B(s) .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["126","126","160","165","175","175"]},"Generally, GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) phones for transmitting Internet Protocol (IP) packets. The GPRS Core Network (e.g., the GGSN  and one or more SGSNs ) is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W-CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network, provides mobility management, session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W-CDMA networks.","The GPRS Tunneling Protocol (GTP) is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users (e.g., access terminals) of a GSM or W-CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber's data from the subscriber's current SSGN  to the GGSN , which is handling the subscriber's session.","Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network; namely, (i) GTP-U, (ii) GTP-C and (iii) GTP' (GTP Prime). GTP-U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol (PDP) context. GTP-C is used for control signaling (e.g., setup and deletion of PDP contexts, verification of GSN reach-ability, updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another, etc.). GTP' is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.","Referring to , the GGSN  acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network (not shown) and the external packet data network . The GGSN  extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol (PDP) format (e.g., IP or PPP) from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN , and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction, the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN  to the SGSN  which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer (RAB) of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby, the GGSN  stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his\/her profile in its location register (e.g., within a PDP context). The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.","The SGSN  is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network , in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN  includes packet routing and transfer, mobility management (e.g., attach\/detach and location management), logical link management, and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information (e.g., current cell, current VLR) and user profiles (e.g., IMSI, PDP address(es) used in the packet data network) of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN , for example, within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus, SGSNs are responsible for (i) de-tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN , (ii) uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN , (iii) carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and (iv) billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, aside from (i)-(iv), SGSNs configured for GSM\/EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W-CDMA networks.","The RAN  (e.g., or UTRAN, in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) system architecture) communicates with the SGSN  via a Iu interface, with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN  communicates with the GGSN  via a Gn interface, which is an IP-based interface between SGSN  and other SGSNs (not shown) and internal GGSNs, and uses the GTP protocol defined above (e.g., GTP-U, GTP-C, GTP', etc.). While not shown in , the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System (DNS). The GGSN  is connected to a Public Data Network (PDN) (not shown), and in turn to the Internet , via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) gateway.","The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN  and the GGSN  which contains a particular UE's communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session, the UE must first attach to the SGSN  and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN  that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN  serving the UE's access point.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 1","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["100","1","120","1","3","120","162","162","188","175","182","184","186","170","2","5","120","164","162","164","188","175","182","184","186","170","4","175","175"]},"Referring to , UEs ,  and  . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell-phones, UE  is illustrated as a wireless tablet-PC and UE  is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However, in other embodiments, it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system  can connect to any type of UE, and the examples illustrated in  are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also, while the AAA , the provisioning server , the IMS\/SIP registration server  and the application server  are each illustrated as structurally separate servers, one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.","Further, referring to , the application server  is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes (MCCs)  . . . N B, and a plurality of regional dispatchers  . . . N A. Collectively, the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server , which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions (e.g., half-duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and\/or IP multicasting protocols) within the wireless communication system . For example, because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server  can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system , multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions (e.g., so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back-and-forth between session participants located in China). Thus, when reference is made to the application server , it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and\/or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session (e.g., handling signaling messages between the UEs, scheduling and\/or sending announce messages, etc.), whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance, including conducting an in-call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.","Referring to , a UE , (here a wireless device), such as a cellular telephone, has a platform  that can receive and execute software applications, data and\/or commands transmitted from the RAN  that may ultimately come from the core network , the Internet and\/or other remote servers and networks. The platform  can include a transceiver  operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) , or other processor, microprocessor, logic circuit, or other data processing device. The ASIC  or other processor executes the application programming interface (API)  layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory  of the wireless device. The memory  can be comprised of read-only or random-access memory (RAM and ROM), EEPROM, flash cards, or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform  also can include a local database  that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database  is typically a flash memory cell, but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art, such as magnetic media, EEPROM, optical media, tape, soft or hard disk, or the like. The internal platform  components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna , display , push-to-talk button  and keypad  among other components, as is known in the art.","Accordingly, an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements, software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example, ASIC , memory , API  and local database  may all be used cooperatively to load, store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively, the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore, the features of the UE  in  are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.","Further, UE  is shown as including a plurality of subscriber identity modules (SIMs)  . . . N, . Thus, UE  corresponds to a multi-SIM UE, as will be described in more detail below.","The wireless communication between the UE  or  and the RAN  can be based on different technologies, such as code division multiple access (CDMA), W-CDMA, time division multiple access (TDMA), frequency division multiple access (FDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example, in W-CDMA, the data communication is typically between the client device , Node B(s) , and the RNC . The RNC  can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network , PSTN, the Internet, a virtual private network, a SGSN, a GGSN and the like, thus allowing the UE  or  access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art, voice transmission and\/or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly, the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.","Below, embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W-CDMA protocols and associated terminology (e.g., such as UE instead of mobile station (MS), mobile unit (MU), access terminal (AT), etc., RNC, contrasted with BSC in EV-DO, or Node B, contrasted with BS or MPT\/BS in EV-DO, etc.). However, it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W-CDMA.","Conventionally, when a given UE is in an idle mode, the given UE attempts to \u2018camp\u2019 on the most appropriate cell of a given public land mobile network (PLMN) (e.g., a CDMA or W-CDMA network, an EV-DO network, a TDMA network, a GSM network, etc.), and register in the PLMN via that cell. When the given UE is camped to a particular cell of a particular PLMN, the given UE tunes to the cell's control channels in order to receive paging and broadcast signals.","As an example, the GSM family of standards, and in particular, GSM standard 03.22, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, defines idle mode operation in terms of three major, interrelated processes: (1) selection of a PLMN; (2) cell selection and reselection; and (3) location updating. In the protocol stack defined by GSM standards for signaling between the given UE and Node B, these idle mode functions are carried out by a radio interface protocol layer 3 (RIL-). Within this layer, the cell selection\/reselection process is carried out by a radio resource management (RR) sub-layer; and the PLMN selection and location updating processes are carried out by a mobility management (MM) sub-layer.","Each time the given UE enters the idle mode (e.g., upon power-up of the given UE, when the given UE is Out-of-Service (OOS), etc.), the given UE scans a given set of bands that are associated with a Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) of the given UE to detect PLMN Identifiers (IDs). The given UE then selects a PLMN associated with one of the detected PLMN IDs, and attempts to camp on a cell of the selected PLMN. The particular PLMN to be camped on may be selected either manually or automatically, according to a predefined order of priorities. The cell selection procedure verifies that the given UE is camped on a suitable cell of the selected PLMN, whereby the given UE will be expected to be able to reliably receive and decode data and in which the given UE is likely to be granted access to call resources when initiating a call.","After selecting the PLMN, cell selection within the PLMN may be based on a general search of all possible Node B channels, or it may be aided by reference to a stored list of cells and\/or cell signal strength measurements made while the given UE was in dedicated mode or Radio Resource Control (RRC)-connected mode. Alternative mechanisms of cell selection, given in GSM terminology, can include Normal Cell Selection (e.g., wherein the given UE searches all channels in all supported bands of operation), Stored List Cell Selection (e.g., wherein the search is based on a stored list of cells in order to speed up the initial cell selection) and Choose Cell Selection (e.g., wherein the given UE uses measurements made in dedicated mode in order to speed up cell selection after call termination). Once the given UE has selected and camped on the appropriate cell of the selected PLMN, the given UE sends a location update message to the Node B so as to register its location with the selected PLMN.","While camped on a given cell, the given UE monitors signals received from the given cell, as well as the signals from neighboring cells. If a cell change is indicated, for example, because the signal from one of the neighboring cells is stronger than that of the current cell, or because of network conditions and priorities, cell reselection is invoked, followed by location update as required. If the given UE loses contact with the current cell (i.e., the given UE is Out-of-Service or OOS), cell selection and, if necessary, PLMN scanning and selection are likewise invoked.","If no suitable cell is found or the given UE is not permitted to receive service (if, for example, the GSM subscriber SIM is not properly inserted, or the network rejects a location update request), the given UE enters a limited service mode. In limited service, the given UE attempts to camp on any cell that will allow it to make emergency calls, irrespective of its PLMN identity. Although the above description refers specifically to GSM standards and TDMA operation, handover and idle mode functions are a part of other cellular systems and standards, as well (e.g., CDMA, TDMA, etc.).","The above-description of conventional idle mode operation for the given UE is described with respect to one particular SIM that is associated with the given UE. However, it is becoming more common for UEs to be deployed with multiple SIM cards (e.g., dual-SIM cellular telephones, triple-SIM cellular telephones). UEs with multiple SIMs or SIM cards (\u201cmulti-SIM UEs\u201d) can be allocated multiple phone numbers, with each SIM capable of supporting a different phone number by which a given multi-SIM UE can be reached.","Accordingly,  illustrates a conventional PLMN camping process for a UE provisioned with a plurality of SIMs  . . . N. Referring to , it may be assumed that N>1. Referring to , it may also be assumed that the UE enters into idle mode and that the UE is not currently camped on PLMN(s) of the RAN  for any of SIMs  . . . N, A. For example, the UE's entry into idle mode in A can be the result of an initial power-up procedure by the UE, or alternatively as a result of an Out-of-Service (OOS) condition (e.g., the UE loses contact with a current cell on which the UE was camped).","After A, the given UE initiates a camping procedure by which the given UE attempts to camp on a given cell of a given PLMN for each of SIMs  . . . N. The camping procedure is performed in an iterative or sequential manner for each of SIMs  . . . N. Accordingly, the given UE scans one or more bands within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs that are associated with SIM  among SIMs  . . . N, A. For example, each of SIMs  . . . N can be associated with a given set of bands that are associated with PLMNs that are configured to support that particular SIM. As a further example, the given set of bands can be determined by the given UE via a query to a storage register within the non-volatile memory of the UE. The given set of bands for SIMs  . . . N can be provisioned per subscription (i.e., or per-SIM) in the non-volatile memory of the UE by the carriers, e.g., during or after activation of a particular SIM. The respective carriers for SIMs  . . . N can either provision the respective SIMs with different sets of bands (although the bands could overlap somewhat), or with identical sets of bands. After obtaining the given set of bands for SIM , the given UE can then scan or monitor the given set of bands in an attempt to detect PLMN IDs that are indicative of available PLMNs for SIM , as shown above in A.","After scanning the given set of bands for SIM , the given UE selects one of the detected PLMNs on which to attempt camping for SIM , A. The PLMN that is selected in A can be selected either manually or automatically, according to a predefined order of priorities. For example, instead of simply selecting the PLMN having a pilot or beacon signal with the highest signal strength, the given UE can be configured to select a PLMN by searching for PLMNs in a particular order (e.g., first CDMA, then EV-DO, etc.) and selecting the first PLMN, in the predefined order, that satisfies a threshold level of signal strength and\/or cell quality. After selecting the PLMN in A, assume that the given UE successfully camps SIM  on the selected PLMN, A. While not shown explicitly in , the camping procedure in A can include selecting a cell within the selected PLMN on which to camp for SIM , sending a location update to the selected PLMN and\/or other camping operations. After A, the camping procedure with respect to SIM  is complete and SIM  is successfully camped on the selected PLMN from A. Accordingly, the iterative camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N continues with respect to the next SIM, which in this case is SIM .","Accordingly, the given UE scans one or more bands within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs that are associated with SIM , A. The given set of bands associated with SIM  can be obtained in a manner that is similar to the manner described above by which the set of bands for SIM  are obtained. After obtaining the given set of bands for SIM , the given UE can scan or monitor the given set of bands in an attempt to detect PLMN IDs that are indicative of available PLMNs for SIM , as shown above in A. As will be discussed below in greater detail, it is possible that the set of bands for SIM  that are scanned in A overlap at least partially with the set of bands for SIM  that are scanned in A. Thus, at least a portion of the scanning of A can be said to be redundant in the sense that the camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N is scanning the same bands to detect PLMNs for two different SIMs.","After scanning the given set of bands for SIM , the given UE selects one of the detected PLMNs on which to attempt camping for SIM , A. The selection of A for SIM  can be similar to the selection of A for SIM . However, it is possible that SIM-specific PLMN-selection rules can result in a different PLMN being selected for SIM  in A as compared to the PLMN that was selected for SIM  in A.","After selecting the PLMN in A for SIM , assume that the given UE successfully camps SIM  on the selected PLMN, A. While not shown explicitly in , the camping procedure in A can include selecting a cell within the selected PLMN on which to camp for SIM , sending a location update to the selected PLMN and\/or other camping operations. After A, the given UE determines whether any additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N require camping, A. If the given UE determines that one or more additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N require camping in A, the iterative camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N continues by returning to A for the next SIM, which in this case is SIM . Otherwise, if the given UE determines that no additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N require camping in A, then each of SIMs  . . . N is camped on a respective PLMN, A.","As will be appreciated from the description of , the iterative manner in which bands are scanned to detect PLMNs for the plurality of SIMs  . . . N can result in overlapping or redundant scans of bands for PLMNs, which increases delays associated with the camping procedure and also increases power consumption by the given UE.","While  describes a conventional process relating to a camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N upon PLMNs when the SIMs  . . . N are not yet camped on any PLMN, it will be appreciated that the given UE can continue to scan for PLMNs even when SIMs  . . . N are each already camped on PLMN(s). Accordingly,  illustrates a conventional PLMN reselection process for a UE provisioned with a plurality of SIMs  . . . N. As in , in , it may be assumed that N>1.","Referring to , unlike A of , assume that the UE is currently camped on PLMNs of the RAN  for each of SIMs  . . . N, B. However, in B, further assume that each of the PLMNs on which SIMs  . . . N correspond to a Visited PLMN (VPLMNs for the respective SIMs. A VPLMN is any PLMN that serves a given SIM other than a home PLMN. Generally, SIMs will camp on VPLMNs when home PLMNs are not currently available.","While the SIMs  . . . N are camped on the respective VPLMNs, the given UE will periodically determine whether home or higher-priority PLMNs are available for reselection. Accordingly, in B, the given UE determines to execute a periodic PLMN reselection procedure. The periodic PLMN reselection procedure is similar in certain respects to the camping procedure described above with respect to . For example, similar to the camping procedure described above with respect to , the periodic PLMN reselection procedure is performed in an iterative or sequential manner for each of SIMs  . . . N, and begins with a PLMN scan for SIM .","Accordingly, the given UE scans one or more bands within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs that are associated with SIM  among SIMs  . . . N, B (e.g., as in A of ). After scanning the given set of bands for SIM , the given UE determines whether any PLMNs were detected that have a higher-priority than a current PLMN upon which SIM  is camped, B. If the given UE determines that no higher-priority PLMNs are detected for SIM  in B, the process advances directly to B. Otherwise, if the given UE determines that at least one higher-priority PLMN is detected for SIM  in B, the given UE selects one of the detected higher-priority PLMNs on which to attempt camping for SIM , B.","After selecting the higher-priority PLMN in B, assume that the given UE successfully camps SIM  on the selected higher-priority PLMN, B. While not shown explicitly in , the camping procedure in B can include selecting a cell within the selected higher-priority PLMN on which to camp for SIM , sending a location update to the selected higher-priority PLMN and\/or other camping operations. Further, while not shown explicitly in , once SIM  is successfully camped on the higher-priority PLMN, the connection of SIM  to its previous PLMN or VPLMN can be dropped or uncamped.","Next, the iterative camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N continues with respect to the next SIM, which in this case is SIM . Accordingly, the given UE scans one or more bands within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs that are associated with SIM , B (e.g., as in A of ). After scanning the given set of bands for SIM , the given UE determines whether any PLMNs were detected that have a higher-priority than a current PLMN upon which SIM  is camped, B. If the given UE determines that no higher-priority PLMNs are detected for SIM  in B, the process advances directly to B. Otherwise, if the given UE determines that at least one higher-priority PLMN is detected for SIM  in B, the given UE selects one of the detected higher-priority PLMNs on which to attempt camping for SIM , B.","After selecting the higher-priority PLMN in B, assume that the given UE successfully camps SIM  on the selected higher-priority PLMN, B. While not shown explicitly in , the camping procedure in B can include selecting a cell within the selected higher-priority PLMN on which to camp for SIM , sending a location update to the selected higher-priority PLMN and\/or other camping operations. Further, while not shown explicitly in , once SIM  is successfully camped on the higher-priority PLMN, the connection of SIM  to its previous PLMN or VPLMN can be dropped or uncamped.","After B, the given UE determines whether the periodic PLMN reselection procedure is to be applied to any additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N, B. If the given UE determines to apply the periodic PLMN reselection procedure to one or more additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N in B, the periodic PLMN reselection procedure for SIMs  . . . N continues by returning to B for the next SIM, which in this case is SIM . Otherwise, if the given UE determines to apply the periodic PLMN reselection procedure to one or more additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N in B, the process of  terminates.","As will be appreciated from the description of , the iterative manner in which bands are scanned to detect PLMNs for the plurality of SIMs  . . . N during the periodic PLMN reselection procedure can result in overlapping or redundant scans of bands for PLMNs, which increases delays associated with the periodic PLMN reselection and also increases power consumption by the given UE.","Embodiments of the invention are directed to reducing redundancy or overlap associated with scanning bands for PLMNs for a multi-SIM UE. As will be described in greater detail below, scanning bands to detect PLMNs in accordance with embodiments of the invention can be performed via scanning a combined band-range associated with each of SIMs  . . . N (e.g., in  and\/or A), or alternatively via an iterative scanning process that excludes searches within bands that have already been searched in an earlier iteration (e.g., as in ).","Accordingly,  illustrates a PLMN camping process for a UE provisioned with a plurality of SIMs  . . . N in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the embodiment of , assume that N>1. Referring to , further assume that the UE enters into idle mode and that the UE is not currently camped on PLMN(s) of the RAN  for any of SIMs  . . . N, A. For example, the UE's entry into idle mode in A can be the result of an initial power-up procedure by the UE, or alternatively as a result of an Out-of-Service (OOS) condition (e.g., the UE loses contact with a current cell on which the UE was camped).","After A, the given UE initiates a camping procedure by which the given UE attempts to camp on a given cell of a given PLMN for each of SIMs  . . . N. Unlike , the camping procedure in  is not performed in an iterative or sequential manner for each of SIMs  . . . N. Rather, in A, the given UE generates a \u2018combined\u2019 band (or band-range) for each of SIMs  . . . N. As an illustrative example, assume that N=3, that SIM  is associated with bands ,  and , SIM  is associated with bands ,  and  and SIM  is associated with bands  and . In this case, the combined band determined in A includes bands  through  and also bands  and . As will be shown below, the camping procedure of  scans each band within the combined band with a single scan-iteration. By contrast, under the same assumptions with respect to , the overlap of bands  and  in association with SIMs  and  would result in a redundant scan of these bands. As discussed above, the set of bands associated with each particular SIM can be determined via query to a storage register within the non-volatile memory of the UE, in an example. The set of bands for SIMs  . . . N can be provisioned per subscription (i.e., or per-SIM) in the non-volatile memory of the UE by the carriers, e.g., during or after activation of a particular SIM. The respective carriers for SIMs  . . . N can either provision the respective SIMs with different sets of bands (although the bands could overlap somewhat), or with identical sets of bands (in which case \u2018combining\u2019 the sets of bands will result in the same set of bands).","Accordingly, in A of , the given UE scans the combined band within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs. For example, A can include the given UE scanning or monitoring the combined band in an attempt to detect PLMN IDs that are indicative of available PLMNs for SIMs  . . . N. As will be appreciated, any results (or identified PLMNs) from the scan of A can be validated based on a timer or counter.","After scanning the combined band in A, the given UE selects one of the detected PLMNs on which to attempt camping for each of SIMs  . . . N, A. The PLMNs that are selected in A can be selected either manually or automatically, according to a predefined order of priorities. In an example, the manner in which the PLMNs are selected can vary from SIM to SIM, such that different PLMNs are selected for different SIMs. In another example, the same PLMN can be selected for two or more of SIMs  . . . N in A. For example, for one or more of SIMs  . . . N, instead of simply selecting the PLMN having a pilot or beacon signal with the highest signal strength, the given UE can be configured to select a PLMN by searching for PLMNs in a particular order (e.g., first CDMA, then EV-DO, etc.) and selecting the first PLMN, in the predefined order, that satisfies a threshold level of signal strength and\/or cell quality.","In a further example, it will be appreciated that, for any particular SIM, the combined band can include bands that are not provisioned to the particular SIM by the carrier. In this case, the PLMN for the particular SIM is restricted to the particular SIM's own set of bands. Thus, if the combined band corresponds to bands  through , and the set of bands for the particular SIM corresponds to bands  through , then the PLMN selected for the particular SIM in A will be selected from a PLMN identified on bands  through , even though bands  through  were also searched during the \u2018combined\u2019 PLMN band-scan.","After selecting the PLMNs for SIMs  . . . N in A, assume that the given UE successfully camps each of SIMs  . . . N on their respective, selected PLMN, A. While not shown explicitly in , the camping procedure in A can include selecting a cell within each selected PLMN on which to camp the associated SIM, sending a location update to the selected PLMN for each SIM and\/or other camping operations. After A, as shown at A, the camping procedure with respect to SIMs  . . . N is complete and each of SIMs  . . . N is successfully camped on their respective, selected PLMN from A.","As will be appreciated from the description of , the combined search for each band associated with SIMs  . . . N in A reduces the redundancy associated with band-searches for PLMN detection as discussed above with respect to . The reduction of the redundancy results in both time-savings for the camping procedure illustrated in , as well as power-consumption savings at the given UE.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5B"],"b":["1","120","1","500","500"]},"After B, the given UE initiates a camping procedure by which the given UE attempts to camp on a given cell of a given PLMN for each of SIMs  . . . N. Unlike , the camping procedure is not performed in a \u2018combined\u2019 manner, but rather an iterative or sequential manner for each of SIMs  . . . N. However, the iterative or sequential implementation of the camping procedure in  differs from the conventional process described above with respect to .","Accordingly, the given UE scans one or more bands within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs that are associated with SIM  among SIMs  . . . N, B. As discussed above, in an example, the one or more bands for SIM  can be obtained provisioned at the UE by a given carrier within non-volatile memory during or after activation of SIM . As will be appreciated, any results (or identified PLMNs) from the scan of B can be validated based on a timer or counter. After obtaining the scan-results in B (e.g., such as a list of detected PLMN-IDs that are indicative of available PLMNs), the given UE stores the scan-results for the bands searched in B for SIM  in a scan-result file or register, B. In an example, the scan-result file or register includes a list of bands that have been searched thus far during the camping procedure (e.g., bands , ,  and ) as well a list of PLMN-IDs detected in each of the scanned-bands (e.g., PLMN-ID # detected in band , PLMN-ID # detected in band , etc.).","After storing the scan-results in B, the given UE selects one of the detected PLMNs on which to attempt camping for SIM , B. The PLMN that is selected in B can be selected either manually or automatically, according to a predefined order of priorities. For example, instead of simply selecting the PLMN having a pilot or beacon signal with the highest signal strength, the given UE can be configured to select a PLMN by searching for PLMNs in a particular order (e.g., first CDMA, then EV-DO, etc.) and selecting the first PLMN, in the predefined order, that satisfies a threshold level of signal strength and\/or cell quality. After selecting the PLMN in B, assume that the given UE successfully camps SIM  on the selected PLMN, B. While not shown explicitly in , the camping procedure in B can include selecting a cell within the selected PLMN on which to camp for SIM , sending a location update to the selected PLMN and\/or other camping operations.","After B, the camping procedure with respect to SIM  is complete and SIM  is successfully camped on the selected PLMN from B. Accordingly, the iterative camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N continues with respect to the next SIM, which in this case is SIM .","Accordingly, if necessary, the given UE scans one or more bands within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs that are associated with SIM  excluding the band(s) that were already searched in an earlier iteration of the camping procedure (i.e., in this case, at B for SIM ), B. As discussed above, in an example, the one or more bands for SIM  can be provisioned at the UE by a given carrier within non-volatile memory during or after activation of SIM . As will be appreciated, any results (or identified PLMNs) from the scan of B can be validated based on a timer or counter. For example, in B, the given UE can determine the set of bands associated with SIM , load the list of bands that have already been searched earlier in the camping procedure from the scan-result file or register, remove any overlapping bands from the set of bands to be searched and then perform the PLMN scan for the \u2018reduced\u2019 set of bands. As will be appreciated, if SIM  is associated with a set of bands that overlap in part with SIM 's set of bands, the scan at B can be reduced in scope. Further, if SIM  is associated with a set of bands that are each contained in SIM 's set of bands, the scan at B can be skipped entirely. If the set of bands for SIM  does not overlap with the set of bands for SIM , then the PLMN scan within the set of bands for SIM  is performed in a \u2018normal\u2019 or non-reduced manner.","After obtaining the scan-results for SIM 's non-overlapping band(s) in B (e.g., such as a list of detected PLMN-IDs that are indicative of available PLMNs in SIM 's non-overlapping band(s)), the given UE adds the scan-results for SIM 's non-overlapping bands to the scan-result file or register, B. Thus, if N>2 and the iterative camping procedure will be applied to additional SIM(s), the subsequent band-scans for SIMs  . . . N can be further reduced.","Referring to , the given UE selects one of the detected PLMNs on which to attempt camping for SIM , B. As will be appreciated, the selection of B can be based upon both (i) the detected PLMNs listed in the scan-result file or register for previous SIM(s) and\/or (ii) PLMNs detected by the scan conducted at B for SIM  (if the scan of B is performed). Aside from the manner in which the given UE populates the list of PLMNs that are available for selection, the selection of B for SIM  can be similar to the selection of B for SIM . However, it is also possible that SIMs  and  can each be associated with different SIM-specific PLMN-selection rules. Also, it will be appreciated that SIM  (as well as other SIMs among SIMS  . . . n) is restricted to its own particular set of bands. As will be appreciated, it is possible that SIM  includes bands that are not included in SIM 's set of bands. In this case, while the results for SIM 's exclusive bands can be stored in the scan-result file or register, these results will be ignored during the PLMN selection procedure for SIM  in B. Thus, if SIM 's set of bands includes bands  through , and the set of bands for SIM  corresponds to bands  through , then the PLMN selected for SIM  in B will be selected from a PLMN identified on bands  through , even though results for bands  through  are also within the scan-result file or register. Also, because bands  through  would have been scanned for SIM  at B, the scanning operation at B for SIM  can be skipped entirely in this example.","After selecting the PLMN in B for SIM , assume that the given UE successfully camps SIM  on the selected PLMN, B. While not shown explicitly in , the camping procedure in B can include selecting a cell within the selected PLMN on which to camp for SIM , sending a location update to the selected PLMN and\/or other camping operations. After B, the given UE determines whether any additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N require camping, B. If the given UE determines that one or more additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N require camping in B, the iterative camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N continues by returning to B for the next SIM, which in this case is SIM . Otherwise, if the given UE determines that no additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N require camping in B, then each of SIMs  . . . N is camped on a respective PLMN, B.","As will be appreciated from the description of , the reduced-scope of bands to be searched during later iterations of the camping procedure reduces the redundancy associated with band-searches for PLMN detection as discussed above with respect to . The reduction of the redundancy results in both time-savings for the camping procedure illustrated in , as well as power-consumption savings at the given UE.","While  each describe a process relating to a camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N upon PLMNs when the SIMs  . . . N are not yet camped on any PLMN, it will be appreciated that the given UE can continue to scan for PLMNs even when SIMs  . . . N are each already camped on PLMN(s). Accordingly,  each illustrate a PLMN reselection process for a UE provisioned with a plurality of SIMs  . . . N in accordance with embodiments of the invention.","Referring to , as in , assume that the UE is currently camped on PLMNs of the RAN  for each of SIMs  . . . N, A. Also, in A, further assume that each of the PLMNs on which SIMs  . . . N corresponds to a Visited PLMN (VPLMN) for the respective SIMs. As discussed above, a VPLMN is any PLMN that serves a given SIM other than a home PLMN. Generally, SIMs will camp on VPLMNs when home PLMNs are not currently available. While  is directed to an example whereby each of SIMs  . . . N are camped on VPLMNs, it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to implementations whereby at least one and less than all of SIMs  . . . N are camped on VPLMNs. In this case, the processes described below with respect to each of SIMs  . . . N can instead be applied only with respect to the SIMs that are actually camped on VPLMNs (e.g., the combined scanning procedure described below with respect to  can correspond to a merged set of bands only for SIMs that are camped on VPLMNs, etc.).","While the SIMs  . . . N are camped on the respective VPLMNs, the given UE will periodically determine whether home or higher-priority PLMNs are available for reselection. Accordingly, in A, the given UE determines to execute a periodic PLMN reselection procedure. The periodic PLMN reselection procedure of  is similar in certain respects to the camping procedure described above with respect to . For example, similar to the camping procedure described above with respect to , the periodic PLMN reselection procedure is performed based on a \u2018combined\u2019 band for SIMs  . . . N.","Referring to , the given UE generates a \u2018combined\u2019 band (or band-range) for each of SIMs  . . . N, A. As an illustrative example, assume that N=3, that SIM  is associated with bands ,  and , SIM  is associated with bands ,  and  and SIM  is associated with bands  and . In this case, the combined band determined in A includes bands  through  and also bands  and . As will be shown below, the periodic PLMN reselection procedure of  scans each band within the combined band with a single scan-iteration. By contrast, under the same assumptions with respect to , the overlap of bands  and  in association with SIMs  and  would result in a redundant scan of these bands. As discussed above, the set of bands associated with each particular SIM can be determined via query to a storage register within the non-volatile memory of the UE. The set of bands for SIMs  . . . N can be provisioned per subscription (i.e., or per-SIM) in the non-volatile memory of the UE by the carriers, e.g., during or after activation of a particular SIM. The respective carriers for SIMs  . . . N can either provision the respective SIMs with different sets of bands (although the bands could overlap somewhat), or with identical sets of bands.","Accordingly, in A of , the given UE scans the combined band within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs. As will be appreciated, any results (or identified PLMNs) from the scan of A can be validated based on a timer or counter. For example, A can include the given UE scanning or monitoring the combined band in an attempt to detect PLMN IDs that are indicative of available PLMNs for SIMs  . . . N.","After scanning the combined band in A, the given UE determines, for each of SIMs  . . . N, whether any PLMNs were detected that have a higher-priority (and also satisfy threshold levels of signal strength and\/or cell quality) than a current PLMN upon which the respective SIM is camped, A. If the given UE determines, for each of SIMs  . . . N, that no higher-priority PLMNs are detected for the respective SIM in A, the process returns to A until the given UE determines to execute a next periodic PLMN reselection procedure. Otherwise, if the given UE determines that at least one higher-priority PLMN is detected for one or more of SIMs  . . . N in A, the given UE selects one of the detected higher-priority PLMNs on which to attempt camping for the one or more of SIMs  . . . N, A. As will be appreciated, it is possible that the one or more of SIMs  . . . N for which the higher-priority PLMN(s) are detected can correspond to less than all of SIMs  . . . N.","In a further example, it will be appreciated that, for any particular SIM, the combined band can include bands that are not provisioned to the particular SIM by the carrier. In this case, the PLMN for the particular SIM is restricted to the particular SIM's own set of bands. Thus, if the combined band corresponds to bands  through , and the set of bands for the particular SIM corresponds to bands  through , then the PLMN selected for the particular SIM in A will be selected from a PLMN identified on bands  through , even though bands  through  were also searched during the \u2018combined\u2019 PLMN band-scan. In other words, higher-priority PLMNs for the particular SIM would be ignored if detected in bands outside the particular SIM's set of bands.","After selecting the PLMN(s) in A, assume that the given UE successfully camps each of the one or more of SIMs  . . . N on their respective, selected higher-priority PLMN(s) in A. While not shown explicitly in , the camping procedure in A can include selecting a cell within each selected higher-priority PLMN on which to camp the associated SIM, sending a location update to the selected higher-priority PLMN for each SIM and\/or other camping operations.","As will be appreciated from the description of , the combined search of each band associated with SIMs  . . . N in A reduces the redundancy associated with band-searches for PLMN detection as discussed above with respect to . The reduction of the redundancy results in both time-savings for the periodic PLMN reselection procedure illustrated in , as well as power-consumption savings at the given UE.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6B"],"b":["1","120","1","600","600","1","1","1","1"]},"While the SIMs  . . . N are camped on the respective VPLMNs, the given UE will periodically determine whether home or higher-priority PLMNs are available for reselection. Accordingly, in B, the given UE determines to execute a periodic PLMN reselection procedure. The periodic PLMN reselection procedure of  is similar in certain respects to the camping procedure described above with respect to . For example, similar to the camping procedure described above with respect to , the periodic PLMN reselection procedure is performed in an iterative manner for SIMs  . . . N, whereby duplicative band-scans are reduced or avoided.","Accordingly, the given UE scans one or more bands within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs that are associated with SIM  among SIMs  . . . N, B. As discussed above, in an example, the one or more bands for SIM  can be obtained provisioned at the UE by a given carrier within non-volatile memory during or after activation of SIM . As will be appreciated, any results (or identified PLMNs) from the scan of B can be validated based on a timer or counter.","After obtaining the scan-results in B (e.g., such as a list of detected PLMN-IDs that are indicative of available PLMNs), the given UE stores the scan-results for the bands searched in B for SIM  in a scan-result file or register, B. In an example, the scan-result file or register includes a list of bands that have been searched thus far during the periodic PLMN reselection procedure (e.g., bands , ,  and ) as well a list of PLMN-IDs detected in each of the scanned-bands (e.g., PLMN-ID # detected in band , PLMN-ID # detected in band , etc.).","Referring to , the given UE determines whether any PLMNs were detected that have a higher-priority (and also satisfy threshold levels of signal strength and\/or cell quality) than a current PLMN upon which SIM  is camped, B. If the given UE determines that no higher-priority PLMNs are detected for SIM  in B, the process advances directly to B. Otherwise, if the given UE determines that at least one higher-priority PLMN is detected for SIM  in B, the given UE selects one of the detected higher-priority PLMNs on which to attempt camping for SIM , B. The PLMN that is selected in B can be selected either manually or automatically, according to a predefined order of priorities. For example, instead of simply selecting the PLMN having a pilot or beacon signal with the highest signal strength, the given UE can be configured to select a PLMN by searching for PLMNs in a particular order (e.g., first CDMA, then EV-DO, etc.) and selecting the first PLMN, in the predefined order, that satisfies a threshold level of signal strength and\/or cell quality. After selecting the PLMN in B, assume that the given UE successfully camps SIM  on the selected PLMN, B. While not shown explicitly in , the periodic PLMN reselection procedure in B can include selecting a cell within the selected PLMN on which to camp for SIM , sending a location update to the selected PLMN and\/or other camping operations.","After the decision block B determines that no higher-priority PLMNs are available for SIM  or SIM  is successfully camped on the higher-priority PLMN in B, the iterative camping procedure for SIMs  . . . N continues with respect to the next SIM, which in this case is SIM .","Accordingly, if necessary, the given UE scans one or more bands within its local wireless environment for signals advertising PLMNs that are associated with SIM  excluding the band(s) that were already searched in an earlier iteration of the camping procedure (i.e., in this case, at B for SIM ), B. As discussed above, in an example, the one or more bands for SIM  can be provisioned at the UE by a given carrier within non-volatile memory during or after activation of SIM . As will be appreciated, any results (or identified PLMNs) from the scan of B can be validated based on a timer or counter. For example, in B, the given UE can determine the set of bands associated with SIM , load the list of bands that have already been searched earlier in the camping procedure from the scan-result file or register, remove any overlapping bands from the set of bands to be searched and then perform the PLMN-search within any remaining non-overlapping bands. As will be appreciated, if SIM  is associated with a set of bands that overlap in part with SIM 's set of bands, the scan at B can be reduced in scope. Further, if SIM  is associated with a set of bands that are each contained in SIM 's set of bands, the scan at B can be skipped entirely. If the set of bands for SIM  does not overlap with the set of bands for SIM , then the PLMN scan within the set of bands for SIM  is performed in a \u2018normal\u2019 or non-reduced manner.","After obtaining the scan-results for SIM 's non-overlapping band(s) in B (e.g., such as a list of detected PLMN-IDs that are indicative of available PLMNs in SIM 's non-overlapping band(s)), the given UE adds the scan-results for SIM 's non-overlapping bands to the scan-result file or register, B. Thus, if N>2 and the iterative camping procedure will be applied to additional SIM(s), the subsequent band-scans for SIMs  . . . N can be further reduced.","Referring to , the given UE determines whether any PLMNs were detected that have a higher-priority than a current PLMN upon which SIM  is camped, B. If the given UE determines that no higher-priority PLMNs are detected for SIM  in B, the process advances directly to B. Otherwise, if the given UE determines that at least one higher-priority PLMN is detected for SIM  in B, the given UE selects one of the detected higher-priority PLMNs on which to attempt camping for SIM , B. As will be appreciated, the selection of B can be based upon both (i) the detected PLMNs listed in the scan-result file or register for previous SIM(s) and\/or (ii) PLMNs detected by the scan conducted at B for SIM  (if the scan of B is performed). Aside from the manner in which the given UE populates the list of PLMNs that are available for selection, the selection of B for SIM  can be similar to the selection of B for SIM . However, it is also possible that SIMs  and  can each be associated with different SIM-specific PLMN-selection rules. Also, it will be appreciated that SIM  (as well as other SIMs among SIMS  . . . n) is restricted to its own particular set of bands. As will be appreciated, it is possible that SIM  includes bands that are not included in SIM 's set of bands. In this case, while the results for SIM 's exclusive bands can be stored in the scan-result file or register, these results will be ignored during the PLMN reselection procedure for SIM  in B. Thus, if SIM 's set of bands includes bands  through , and the set of bands for SIM  corresponds to bands  through , then the higher-priority PLMN selected for SIM  in B will be selected from a higher-priority PLMN identified on bands  through , even though results for bands  through  can also be within the scan-result file or register. Also, because bands  through  would have been scanned for SIM  at B, the scanning operation at B for B can be skipped entirely in this example.","After selecting the PLMN in B, assume that the given UE successfully camps SIM  on the selected PLMN, B. While not shown explicitly in , the periodic PLMN reselection procedure in B can include selecting a cell within the selected PLMN on which to camp for SIM , sending a location update to the selected PLMN and\/or other camping operations. After B, the given UE determines whether to apply the periodic PLMN reselection procedure to any additional SIMs among SIMs  . . . N, B. If the given UE determines to apply the periodic PLMN reselection procedure to any additional SIMs in B, the iterative periodic PLMN reselection procedure for SIMs  . . . N continues by returning to B for the next SIM, which in this case is SIM . Otherwise, if the given UE determines not to apply the periodic PLMN reselection procedure to any additional SIMs in B, the process terminates.","As will be appreciated from the description of , the reduced-scope of band-searches during the iterative periodic PLMN reselection procedure reduces the redundancy associated with band-searches for PLMN detection as discussed above with respect to . The reduction of the redundancy results in both time-savings for the periodic PLMN reselection procedure illustrated in , as well as power-consumption savings at the given UE.","While references in the above-described embodiments of the invention have generally used the terms \u2018call\u2019 and \u2018session\u2019 interchangeably, it will be appreciated that any call and\/or session is intended to be interpreted as inclusive of actual calls between different parties, or alternatively to data transport sessions that technically may not be considered as \u2018calls\u2019. Also, while above-embodiments have generally described with respect to PTT sessions, other embodiments can be directed to any type of communication session, such as a push-to-transfer (PTX) session, an emergency VoIP call, etc.","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Further, those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.","The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The methods, sequences and\/or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal (e.g., access terminal). In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.","In one or more exemplary embodiments, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if the software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions, steps and\/or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore, although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete appreciation of embodiments of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings which are presented solely for illustration and not limitation of the invention, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
