---
title: Portable assembly of stackable drawers of rotating cylindrical rollers
abstract: An apparatus for curing cylindrical shaped elements having a liner, especially a liner of a rocket motor sleeve, where the cylindrical shaped elements are cured during rotation in a horizontal orientation. Horizontal rotation produces a liner with a substantially uniform thickness. The apparatus is mobile, compact, and has built-in robust safety mechanisms not compromised by the heat used to effect a cure. The cylindrical rollers are easily cleaned with minimal cross-contamination of one lot to another. Dripping of elastomeric materials from one assembly of rollers onto a stackable assembly of rollers below is eliminated. Each stackable assembly of rollers is independently controlled where each assembly is driven by its own motor, so rotation of one assemble does not affect another assembly of rollers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08978223&OS=08978223&RS=08978223
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08978223
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111020
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to a roller assembly, and in particular to an apparatus that is a portable assembly of stackable drawers of cylindrical rollers, where the apparatus is suitable for rotating, for example, a liner of a rocket motor sleeve and other cylindrical shaped elements during curing.","2. Description of the Prior Art","The background teaches that assemblies of rotating cylindrical rollers can be used to uniformly heat hot dogs. U.S. Pat. No. 6,800,314 to Evans et al. teaches an offset multi-tier rotary grill for grilling and heating food items such as hot dogs, sausages, melts and similar food items. The rotary grill includes heated rollers that are arranged in vertically spaced apart roller tiers. The prior teaches that assemblies of rollers are fixed, and offset multiple tiers. In cooking, the food is typically visible at all times, presumably to entice a customer visually.","The invention is an apparatus for curing cylindrical shaped elements having a liner, especially a rocket motor sleeve with a liner of a rocket motor sleeve, where the cylindrical shaped elements are cured as they are rotated in a horizontal orientation. Horizontal rotation during curing generally produces a sleeve having a liner with a more uniform thickness.","An aspect of the invention is that the apparatus can accommodate a production lot of motor tubes. Another aspect of the invention is that the apparatus is mobile, compact, and has built in robust safety mechanisms that are not compromised by the heat used to effect a cure.","Another aspect of the apparatus is that the cylindrical rollers used to rotate a production lot of motor tubes are easily cleaned, and that there is minimal cross-contamination of one lot to another lot of materials generated during a cure cycle. For instance, cross-contamination caused by the dripping of elastomeric materials from one assembly of cylindrical rollers on a stackable assembly of cylindrical rollers below an upper assembly, which, may be loaded with a production lot of motor tubes, is substantially eliminated.","A further differentiating aspect of the invention is that each stackable assembly of cylindrical rollers is independently controlled, that is each assembly is driven by its own motor, so that rotation of one assemble does not affect another assembly of cylindrical rollers. Independent control has the benefit that production lots can be started and stopped independently. If there is a failure by one assembly, it generally will not affect adjacent assemblies.","An advantage of the disclosed anti-tip safety mechanism, beyond the advantage that tip-over is eliminated, is that the mechanism may be tested by simply pulling out a drawer containing an assembly of cylindrical rollers. If the mechanism is working properly, there will be some resistance tension on the drawer to pull the drawer back to the closed, stacked position. The tension also does not increase as the drawer is pulled out further. However, the tension will dramatically increase when the anti-tip safety mechanism reaches the stop position. This dramatic increase in tension is accompanied by preventing more than one drawer from being capable of being pulled out.","The naming convention employed in this disclosure utilizes the accepted notation that articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d can denote one or more, and are not limited to a single number.","The invention is an apparatus that is an assembly of cylindrical rollers, where, in one exemplary embodiment, the assemble is in a frame, where the frame constitutes stackable drawers of cylindrical rollers that are individually driven. The apparatus is suitable for rotating and may be used for curing a liner of a rocket motor sleeve and other cylindrical shaped elements during curing. Generally, rocket motor sleeves are substantially case bonded grain sleeves that are grit blasted, and lined with a curing fire retardant liner. In one case, the liner has an oligomeric material, such as hydroxypolybutadiene, (sometimes referred to as R45-HT and was made by ARCO) or carboxypolybutadiene that is cured into a polymeric material. The curing process is augmented through the application of heat, where the temperature is generally on the order of 150\u00b0 F.-200\u00b0 F., and more particularly about 165\u00b0 F. As shown in , the ends of the sleeves are fitted with flanged ring shaped masks forming a doughnut-shaped surface, which serves to exclude the liner from the ends of the cylindrical shaped element and elevate the sleeves so that the sleeves need not actually come into contact with cylindrical rollers . Therefore, the diameter of the masks generally define the design diameter such that adjacent masks do not contact each other upon rotation. A gear motor  with a powered sprocket  drives a chain , which is connected to a sprocket  (shown as either motor\/right or opposing\/left) on a cylindrical roller . In the illustrated embodiment each cylindrical roller  has a pair of sprockets, where a sprocket on one end is connected to the cylindrical roller on the right, and on the other end the sprocket is connected to the cylindrical roller on the left. As shown, the second cylindrical roller is connected to the third cylindrical roller, and on the other end the second cylindrical roller is connected to the first cylindrical roller. The first cylindrical roller is driven by the motor . The net effect of this sequential assembly is that all cylindrical rollers turn in the same direction, there are no long lengths of chain, and the cylindrical rollers rotate at substantially the same speed as established by the gear motor with the gear sprocket.","This arrangement may alternately be described as having a first sprocket on one end and a second sprocket on an opposing end, where the first sprocket on the first cylindrical roller is connected with a first chain to the driven sprocket on the gear motor. The second sprocket on the first cylindrical roller is successively connected through a second chain to a second sprocket on a next roller, such that the next roller is driven by the first cylindrical roller. Subsequently, therein making the next cylindrical roller a second driven cylindrical roller, which has a first sprocket that successively drives a following cylindrical roller, where the pattern repeats until all cylindrical rollers are driven and all rotate in the same direction. The chain length is limited to two sprockets, therefore the profile (height) of a drawer may be kept low as there is minimal chain sag, no intervening gears are necessary, little contamination, fewer parts, less weight and the assembly is capable of being easily reconfigured to handle larger diameter motor sleeves.","As shown in other drawings, each drawer of assembly of cylindrical rollers has its own individual gear motor. This configuration enables individual drawers to be processed at different rotational speeds.","In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, the cylindrical rollers are substantially parallel and separated by a distance that is sufficiently wide to ensure that the masks , which have a known OD diameter  on one sleeve , do not contact the masks on an adjacent sleeve. The masks may be selected so they fit the sleeve ID  and OD . The ID  of the mask may be a consideration as it may influence air through the sleeve  during curing. The distance separating the cylindrical rollers must be sufficiently close to retain the sleeves when rotated. The cylindrical rollers ,  are generally covered by a protective coating  (Heat shrink PTFE tubing), and this feature needs to be considered in determining the distance that the cylindrical rollers are separated.","As will become further evident, the invented apparatus is compact, having high product density; there are numerous aspects that reduce cross contamination; and a safety cable system prevents tip over by allowing only one drawer to be opened fully at a time.","A perspective view of an embodiment of the apparatus  is illustrated in , which includes a vertical rack  on a cart  carrying multiple stackable drawers , where each drawer has an assembly of driven cylindrical rollers . In the illustrated embodiment there are eight stackable drawers. The drawers are loaded in the vertical rack stack in a manner similar to drawers in a chest-of-drawers. As seen in the open drawer , the assembly of driven cylindridal rollers  may, in an exemplary embodiment, include twenty six driven individual cylindrical rollers  in the drawer . A pair of adjacent cylindrical rollers rotate one cylindrical sleeve , and therefore, the assembly of cylindrical rollers  in one drawer may, in an exemplary embodiment, turn thirteen rocket motor sleeves . Assuming, in an exemplary embodiment, all eight drawers have thirteen cylindrical sleeves , the apparatus may have the capacity to rotate and cure one hundred and four solid rocket motor sleeves  or a comparable number of similar sized cylindrical elements.","The illustrated open drawer  has a catch tray  to contain any generated material (such as curing polymer) to a single drawer; and a face plate  with a left handle mount , a right handle mount , and a handle . On an outside surface of the face plate  is mounted a guard support  to which is attached an explosion proof CPP plug , and a gear motor  with a motor sprocket (not visible), where the gear motor  has a gear motor screen .","The guard support  is shown in  and in detail in . The guard support  is mounted to the right handle mount  which is mounted to the face plate . The guard support  supports the gear motor  and the CPP Plug (explosion proof) . The illustrated guard support  is a single piece, having a guard base section for mounting the guard support  to the handle mount . The guard support  further includes a substantially cylindrical section for mounting the gear motor , a substantially linear section for an electrical chord for the CPP plug , and substantially rectilinear section with a circular opening for storing the CPP plug .","As shown when the second drawer is opened the CPP plug  has been turned to the unlock position and unplugged from the corresponding receptacle  mounted on the vertical rack. When the drawer is closed the CPP plug  is handy, and it can be plugged back into the receptacle. An explosion proof switch box  with a switch  and a pilot light  is mounted proximate to the receptacle , connected by conduit . When all drawers are closed, the face plates cumulatively form a thermal barrier, isolating the gear motors  from exposure to heat. The face plates function as a door to retain heat and move air. The top cover  (shown in ) includes panels and , which also function to protect the contents within the apparatus and to provide some degree of insulation.","Each drawer  has a left angle element  and a right angle element . The left and right angle elements ,  are oriented such that they cover the sprockets and chains, as well as support the drawer. The back of the drawer has a drawer cross bar  (not visible in , see ). As illustrated in , the drawer cross bar  is supported by a left extension  on the opposing side projecting from the left angle element , and a right extension  projecting from the right angle element  on the motor side. The right extension  has a V-grooved retaining roller  and a stud mounting track wheel  that is corrosion resistant. Likewise, the left extension  has a V-grooved track retaining roller  and another stud mounting track wheel  that is corrosion resistant. As may become apparent in forthcoming drawings, the V-grooved retaining rollers  intersect a constraint cable assembly  that is a component of an anti-tip mechanism . Other elements of the drawer are best viewed in and , which are end-on side views. Substantially, each individual cylindrical roller  has two sprockets, a motor side sprocket and an opposing side sprocket . The sprockets on each side are connected in pairs with a chain , such that all cylindrical rollers are driven by a motor sprocket  (shown in ghost with dashed lines) and all cylindrical rollers  rotate in the same direction. The illustrated chain has a connecting link and is typically composed of a polymeric material, such as acetal. The composition of the chain is not a limitation.","In an exemplary embodiment, a sprocket is shown in , and . As previously stated substantially each cylindrical roller  has two sprockets , which are substantially identical, differing only in their location. A sprocket on the motor-side or right is numbered , and those sprockets on the opposing or left side are numbered .  is a perspective view of an exemplary sprocket . The sprocket  includes teeth  on a hub  with a bore . The bore  includes an inside diameter . The sprocket is generally mated with an end of a cylindrical roller  with a bolt. Generally, the sprocket  does not also serve as a bearing for the cylindrical roller, but it is anticipated that this configuration may be possible.","Referring again to , each of the cylindrical rollers  of the cylindrical roller  is covered with heat shrink PTFE tubing  (one tube is shown as a pair of dashed lines). The tubing is transparent-trimmed to cover the cylindrical roller . PTFE is a synthetic fluoropolymer of polytetrafluoroethylene. The PTFE protects the cylindrical rollers, and makes them easy to clean and cleaning is less frequent as PTFE is a low stick material. Additional low stick material are anticipated.","The front of the apparatus , as shown in detail in , has a of pair miniature screw jacks , with a fixed saddle (generally 3 ton capacity, 4\u2033 max height). The screw jacks enable the cart to be elevated and substantially locked into position. Miniature screw jack  extends from a lift plate  (front motor side), and miniature screw jack  extends from a lift plate  (front opposing side) that is respectively attached to a right front angle and a left front angle (best seen in ). The base  is largely hidden by the front skirt plate . Note, that in  all drawers , and in an exemplary embodiment eight drawers, are closed, and all CPC plugs  are plugged into their respective receptacles .","As shown partially in , and in greater detail in , the cart  has a mechanism to facilitate movement. The exemplary embodiment includes four swivel casters  attached to a base-plate , where the casters have a hard rubber tread such as, Nylon, or polyurethane or another tough elastomeric material that is non-abrasive. The caster  may also have a stop  that sets the direction and freedom of the caster to move. It is anticipated that in some exemplary embodiments casters may not be used. For instance, the apparatus may be loaded on a heavy duty pallet and moved with a fork lift, or the apparatus may be on a rail carrier.","In , all the drawers are removed exposing the components of the cart , which includes a vertical rack  mounted on the base  with an anchor shackle . The shackle is used to tow the apparatus, and is generally covered by front plate skirt  (shown in ).","The base is substantially a rectangular I-beam assemblage. The rack  provides support and movement for the drawers and the vertical components of the rack have portals  to accommodate drawer extensions , (see ). Air can flow can easily move side-to-side across the cylindrical rollers  and the sleeves  rotating on the cylindrical rollers (previously identified in ). The vertical rack  is largely built on the base , which support a rack of tracks  based on a C-channel or C-shaped channel. In an exemplary embodiment, there are eight C-channel tracks on the left and eight C-channel tracks on the right. The top and bottom tracks are numbered. The rack includes a left front angle , a right front angle , a left rear angle , a right rear angle , a rack cross bar , a left rear support , a right rear support , a top front angle , a left front support , a right front support , multiple V-grooved track rollers , , and front plate skirt  (shown in ). The left rear support and the right rear support and formed so as to be contiguous with the channel, therein forming portions of the rack of tracks.","The V-grooved track rollers , are permanently lubricated, and function as bearings for a drawer , providing support for an lower edge of drawer angle elements , (shown in ). The track wheels , (see ) on the drawer extensions , move through the C-channel track , through the support portions and in the illustrated variation through portals  (more of this later , -right and -left). The same V-grooved rollers  also function as guide pulleys  for the cable in the anti-tip mechanism . The adaptation of the same element, such as V-grooved rollers , to perform multiple tasks demonstrates consideration and inventiveness that makes the apparatus more commercially viable and a conservation of inventoried items.","Referring to , which is an enlarged partial view of the rack shown in . There is no drawer, and the cable in the anti-tip safety mechanism  has not been strung. The view is of the track for the bottom drawer. The track is C-channel , which abuts the left rear support . The left rear support is mounted on the left rear angle . The left rear angle has a portal  for each track, which provides an opening to accommodate drawer extensions ,. A drawer constraint cable  has been added to the drawing to illustrate its path around the V-grooved roller  on drawer extensions ,, as illustrated in . Access to the track from the back of the vertical rack, in this embodiment, the eighth track, is marked by an upper V-grooved roller -U and a lower V-grooved roller -L mounted on the left rear support . The extension V-grooved roller shown in ghost is labeled -E, to differentiate its closed drawer position between the upper V-grooved roller -U and a lower V-grooved roller -L. When the drawer is opened, the cable is extended and the V-grooved roller -E moves to a new position.","Referring to , a weight constraint cable  has been added to the drawing to illustrate its path around the V-grooved roller  attached to the base . The drawing furthermore illustrates the relative close proximity of the weight constraint cable  to the right rear angle and the right rear support ","Referring to , the miniature screw jack  enables the cart to be elevated and substantially locked into position. The base  of the jack may be, in an exemplary embodiment, an hexagonal shaped jack, and therefore easily turned with a wrench. Miniature screw jack  extends from the lift plate  (front motor side). Lift plate  is fasten to the bottom front of the right front angle . A similar arrangement is on the left side with right front angle (see ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["200","220","205","100","100","1","100","2","9","9","9","130","132","22","22","1","22","2","205","220","205","22","1","22","2","22","203","100","1","203","203","205"],"i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["22","22","14","220","178","220","220","203","205"],"i":["a","b "]},"Referring to , the counter weight  is positioned on the cable, with a wire rope grip fitting , which locks the weight at a specific position on the cable and joins ends of the weight constraint cable (assembly) . The wire rope grip fittings  also are used to tension the weight constraint cable . The wire rope grip fittings  are separated by \u201cA\u201d, the width of the counter weight .","Referring to and , which are essentially mirror images of each other. The ends of the drawer constraint cable  is generally connected to a left side and a right side of the rack or base (not shown). In an exemplary embodiment, the connection is effected using swivel leveling mount fitting , hex locknuts , and wire rope grip fittings . The drawer constraint cable  and the weight constraint cable  is routed through a plurality of V-grooved rollers.","The apparatus  is shown from the rear in . The drawer constraint cable  loops, in an exemplary embodiment, four times from the cross bar  to the weight . All of the drawers are closed so the start position is around the sixth drawer. The sixth drawer portals are labeled -right, -left, accommodating extensions  and . When a drawer is opened, the counter weight  moves through a vertical path defined by the weight constraint cable . The upper most wire rope grip fittings  on the weight constraint cable  will eventually impact the V-grooved rollers  on the rack cross bar  as the counter weight  moves up. This point of impact is a stop position as there is no further vertical distance for the counter weight .","Also shown in  is a left v-grooved roller -left on the top rack cross bar , another left v-grooved roller -left near a bottom of the left rear angle , a left wire rope grip fitting . (see ) The left wire rope grip fitting  locks a left end of the counter weight at a specific position on the cable and joins ends of the weight constraint cable so that the joined left weight constraint cable -left is a left taut closed loop. The left taut closed loop circles the left v-grooved roller on the top rack cross bar and the left v-grooved roller near the bottom of the left rear angle, where the left end of the counter weight is guided by the left taut closed loop. A right v-grooved roller -right on the top rack cross bar , a right v-grooved roller -right near a bottom of the right rear angle , and a right wire rope grip fitting . (see ). The right wire rope grip fitting  locks a right end of the counter weight at a specific position on the cable and joins ends of the weight constraint cable so that the joined right weight constraint cable -right is a right taut closed loop. This right taut closed loop circles the right v-grooved roller on the top rack cross bar and the right v-grooved roller near the bottom of the right rear angle, where the right end of the counter weight is guided by the right taut closed loop.","The anti-tip safety mechanism  is a robust mechanical system, that can easily withstand, and anticipates, curing temperatures of about 150\u00b0 F.-about 200\u00b0 F. Furthermore, the anti-tip safety mechanism  works independent of the drawer of rollers, whether the rollers are turning or stationary. If there is failure in one of the drawers, the anti-tip safety mechanism  is unaffected. Based on this mechanism, it is relatively simple to take a drawer out-of-service, and install a replacement drawer. For instance, to replace drawer two, one would simply disengage the drawer's constraint cable  from the V-grooved rollers -d on extensions , . One would slide in the replacement drawer and reengage the drawer constraint cable  onto the replacement drawer's V-grooved rollers -d on extensions ,. The anti-tip safety mechanism  may be tested, by simply pulling out a drawer. If the mechanism is working properly, there will be some pulling tension on the drawer to draw the drawer back to the closed, stacked position. The tension does not increase as the drawer is pulled out further. However, the tension may dramatically increase when the counter weight reaches it stop position, which generally corresponds to more than one drawer being pulled out.","It is anticipated that the drawer configuration and the anti-tip safety mechanism  may be modified so that more than one drawer may be pulled out. For instance, the vertical rack  and anti-tip safety mechanism  may be configured to hold four drawers, and these racks may be stacked on each other, or stacked side-by-side.","In , the apparatus  is positioned inside and flush with an integral oven . Cumulatively the face plates  function as a door to the oven . The front angle top , the left front angle , the right front angle and the front plate skirt  serve as flashing. When the whole apparatus is rolled into place in the oven, the swivel mount fittings -left, -right mounted on left rear angle and right rear angle (also shown in and ) hits a stop with hard point in the oven (not shown on any drawing).","The apparatus may be on a floor , where the floor  may be in a temperature and humidity controlled room. If the room may attain sufficiently high temperature, then the room may be used as the oven, enabling greater production, where no integral oven  will be required.","It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific exemplary embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof, and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art, without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention, which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.","Finally, any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations (for example, by using the term \u201cabout\u201d) that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the embodiments of the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing invention will become readily apparent by referring to the following detailed description and the appended drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 10","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","a","b","a ","b "],"b":["135","138","139","14","168","168","12","16","16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":"b ","b":"22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"a ","b":["220","224"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"i":["b ","c "],"b":["203","205"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":"144"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"i":["b ","a","b","b; "],"b":["7","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]},"In  is a perspective frontal overhead view of the apparatus positioned inside and flush with an integral oven ."]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
