---
title: Monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish/subscribe messaging environment
abstract: A message published by a publisher device and associated with a subscription topic hosted by a publish/subscribe message tracking device is received at the publish/subscribe message tracking device. A determination is made to monitor action completion processing of the message by at least one subscriber device. The message is sent to the at least one subscriber device that is registered to the subscription topic and configured to report action completion processing of the message. The action completion processing of the message by the at least one subscriber device is monitored. Monitoring results of the monitored action completion processing are published.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09372739&OS=09372739&RS=09372739
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09372739
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110420
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/031,224 titled \u201cMESSAGE PUBLICATION FEEDBACK IN A PUBLISH\/SUBSCRIBE MESSAGING ENVIRONMENT,\u201d which was filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Feb. 20, 2011; this application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/031,225 titled \u201cCRITERIA-BASED MESSAGE PUBLICATION CONTROL AND FEEDBACK IN A PUBLISH\/SUBSCRIBE MESSAGING ENVIRONMENT,\u201d which was filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Feb. 20, 2011; and this application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/031,226 titled \u201cFAILURE-CONTROLLED MESSAGE PUBLICATION AND FEEDBACK IN A PUBLISH\/SUBSCRIBE MESSAGING ENVIRONMENT,\u201d which was filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Feb. 20, 2011, each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety as if fully set forth herein.","The present invention relates publish\/subscribe systems. More particularly, the present invention relates to monitoring subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment.","Publish\/subscribe (pub\/sub) systems allow information producing devices (e.g., publishers) to create topics. Message broker devices host the topics. Information consuming devices (e.g., subscribers) may subscribe to topics hosted by the message broker devices. Publishers may post messages to topics hosted by the message broker devices. The message broker devices may forward posted topic messages to each subscriber device that has subscribed to the topic.","A method includes receiving, at a publish\/subscribe message tracking device, a message published by a publisher device and associated with a subscription topic hosted by the publish\/subscribe message tracking device; determining to monitor action completion processing of the message by at least one subscriber device; sending the message to the at least one subscriber device that is registered to the subscription topic and configured to report action completion processing of the message; monitoring the action completion processing of the message by the at least one subscriber device; and publishing monitoring results of the monitored action completion processing.","A system includes a communication module; and a processor programmed to receive, via the communication module, a message published by a publisher device and associated with a hosted subscription topic; determine to monitor action completion processing of the message by at least one subscriber device; send, via the communication module, the message to the at least one subscriber device that is registered to the subscription topic and configured to report action completion processing of the message; monitor the action completion processing of the message by the at least one subscriber device; and publish monitoring results of the monitored action completion processing.","A computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium including computer readable program code, where the computer readable program code when executed on a computer causes the computer to receive a message published by a publisher device and associated with a hosted subscription topic; determine to monitor action completion processing of the message by at least one subscriber device; send the message to the at least one subscriber device that is registered to the subscription topic and configured to report action completion processing of the message; monitor the action completion processing of the message by the at least one subscriber device; and publish monitoring results of the monitored action completion processing.","The examples set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures, those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.","The subject matter described herein provides monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment. Monitoring of subscriber device (e.g., destination) processing of messages in a publish\/subscribe environment\/system as described herein involves tracking processing (e.g., action completion) of one or more published messages by one or more subscriber devices and publishing tracked processing and\/or action completion results to the publisher device and\/or administrator devices or other devices configured for subscriber message processing notifications. Messages delivered to subscribers may be configured with one or more report destination identifiers that indicate one or more devices to which to report message processing information in response to internal processing of message(s) received by subscriber devices. Both positive and negative action completion notifications (e.g., PACN\/NACN) may be generated by subscriber devices to communicate successful\/unsuccessful completion, respectively, of processing of action(s) requested, instructed, or configured in association with messages delivered to subscriber devices. Message processing and action completion status may also be provided using the technology described herein as appropriate for a given implementation.","Hereinafter, publish\/subscribe environments or systems may be referred to as \u201cpub\/sub\u201d environments or systems for convenience. It should be noted that the phrases \u201csubscriber message processing,\u201d \u201caction completion processing,\u201d or similar phrases utilized herein refer to internal subscriber device message processing for consumption and action completion based upon content of messages as opposed to processing for delivery or receipt of messages. As such, delivery confirmation and delivery monitoring is distinguishable from the monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment described herein. Additionally, the term \u201cprocessing\u201d associated with messages at subscriber devices may be used interchangeably with the term \u201caction completion\u201d herein, as convenient for the particular examples provided below. Further, \u201csubscriber devices\u201d may include any form of device suitable for use as a subscriber in publish\/subscribe systems or environments, including embedded devices (e.g., heart monitors, train\/railway track monitors, etc.) used in telemetry applications or other embedded applications, or non-embedded devices as appropriate for a given implementation.","Tracking processing and\/or action completion of one or more published messages by one or more subscriber devices may include several variations of technology and technological permutations. For example, subscriber devices may inform messaging engines asynchronously when the subscriber devices consider messages to be either completely processed or that processing of a particular message has failed. Alternatively, a new application programming interface (API) call may be utilized to allow subscriber devices to provide action completion notifications to messaging engines. As another alternative, subscriber devices may put\/place action report messages onto message destinations (e.g., queues) read by messaging engines. As a further alternative, subscriber devices may perform a \u201cget\u201d of subscribed messages transactionally (e.g., as a transaction with a messaging engine), and the messaging engine may treat published messages that are read as successfully processed when the transaction is committed by the subscriber device. As yet another alternative, tracking of processing and\/or action completion of one or more published messages by one or more subscriber devices may be performed by a combination of the above example implementations. Status of failed or partially-completed message processing by subscriber devices may also be conveyed to a messaging engine via any suitable mechanism. Many other variations on tracking processing and\/or action completion of one or more published messages by one or more subscriber devices are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter.","Publishing tracked processing and\/or action completion results to the publisher device and\/or administrator devices or other devices configured for subscriber message processing notifications may also include several variations of technology and technological permutations. For example, an action report message may either be placed on\/sent to a queue that may be specified by the publisher device within the message, to an administrator, or to other devices configured for subscriber message processing notifications. Alternatively, topic-based processing may be utilized and action report messages may be published by subscriber devices to a report topic using message identifiers (e.g., \/publicationreports\/msg\/<msgid>). The report topic may be subscribed to by publisher devices and administration devices and action report messages may be distributed under one or more such subscriptions. As another alternative, an action report message may be provided to callers of a new reporting API call that the publisher device calls to receive action completion notifications. As a further alternative, the action completion notifications and\/or information may be exposed\/provided by a combination of the above example implementations. Again, status of failed or partially-completed message processing by subscriber devices may also be published by a messaging engine via any suitable mechanism. Many other variations on publishing tracked processing and\/or action completion results to the publisher device and\/or administrator devices or other devices configured for subscriber message processing notifications are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter.","Information provided in association with publishing tracked processing and\/or action completion results may include several information elements. For example, a unique identifier (e.g., a message identifier (ID)) associating a specific report with a message published by a publisher device may be used in association with action report messages generated by subscriber devices to report action completion information. Additionally or alternatively, a total number of subscribers eligible to receive published messages (e.g., subscribing to the specified topic and meeting all other requirements\u2014e.g. message \u201cselectors\u201d) may be maintained by messaging engines and a total number of subscriber devices that have successfully processed a message may be reported. A total number of subscriber devices that have attempted to process the message but failed may also be tracked and reported. A total number of subscriber devices that have yet to process a message may be tracked and reported.","The action report messages may be forwarded by a messaging engine to one or more configured recipients of action completion notifications or action report messages from multiple subscriber devices and may be aggregated into a combined\/aggregated action report message to reduce bandwidth and processing requirements at both a message engine and at configured recipients of action completion notifications.","This action reporting may further be configured based upon other criteria, such as device type\/configuration or other criteria as appropriate for a given implementation. For example, tracking and reporting of action completion by subscriber devices may be configured based upon whether subscriber devices are configured for durable (e.g., to receive all messages for a topic) or non-durable subscriptions (e.g., to only receive messages when actively connected and able to receive messages). Additionally, tracking and reporting of action completion by subscriber devices may be configured for subscriber devices that are registered at message publication time or for subscriber devices that are sent retained publication messages to provide additional granularity. Further, tracking and reporting of action completion by subscriber devices may be configured based upon whether subscriber devices are currently connected to the messaging engine, or alternatively whether subscriber devices are not currently connected to the messaging engine. As another configuration alternative, an \u201cimportance rating\u201d may be implemented such that if a subscriber device is configured with an \u201cimportance\u201d rating or other tag or a particular level, the subscriber action report information may be included into a report. Any error information associated with delivery to this subscriber (e.g., subscriber input queue full) may be reported. As such, a variety of statistics may be maintained and reported and message tracking filtering based upon a variety of criteria may be implemented as appropriate for a given implementation. Message tracking filtering may reduce processing bandwidth and overhead for certain implementations.","Determining what information to report for each published message and when to report on the processing\/action completion status for a published message may be complicated by several factors. For example, a time taken by subscriber devices to process a published message may be unbounded. Further, a time taken by different subscriber devices to process the same published message may be different. As such, action report messages may be generated at a fixed time after publication of a message by either the messaging engine and\/or the subscriber device(s). Action report messages may also be generated repeatedly at fixed time intervals, in response to changes of any information associated with action reporting, or in direct response to a request for the information via an API call. Many other variations on what information to report for each published message and when to report on the processing\/action completion status for a published message may be implemented as appropriate for a given implementation.","Tracking and publication of subscriber message processing\/action completion status may be configured dynamically (e.g., enabled\/disabled), such as via configuration settings (e.g., one or more configuration flags) associated with a messaging engine and\/or subscriber devices. Because of the performance overhead of such monitoring, performance may be improved by processing certain published messages using a variety of statistical message selection variations, as described above. Dynamic enablement of tracking and publication of subscriber message processing\/action completion status may be turned on and off (e.g., enabled\/disabled, respectively) by publisher devices (e.g., by setting\/clearing a flag at message publication), such as via data associated with a published message. Publisher devices may be configured with a tracking and publication privilege rating, such that only privileged publisher devices of a certain publication privilege rating may be allowed to set the flag and enable tracking and publication. The publication privilege rating may be dynamically adjustable based upon message traffic, processor consumption, or other factors as appropriate for a given implementation. Alternatively, dynamic enablement of tracking and publication of subscriber message processing\/action completion status may be set\/configured by the administrator based upon a variety of criteria, such as all publications above\/below a certain priority level, mission critical\/urgent versus non-mission critical\/urgent messages, telemetry applications\/data versus non-real-time critical applications\/data, etc. Dynamic enablement of tracking and publication of subscriber message processing\/action completion status may be inferred by a messaging engine and\/or subscriber devices from other setting (e.g., all messages published with a \u201cquality of service\u201d greater than a threshold, etc.).","The tracking and publication of subscriber message processing\/action completion status information may be consumed by the publishing application. However, it should also be noted that a monitoring tool\/device may be implemented for administrative use to check on the status of particularly important publications, for statistical metrics of publication processing, and for other uses as appropriate for a given implementation. Notifications of statistics and\/or message processing failures may be made to a user\/administrator to allow appropriate corrective action for unprocessed or unsuccessfully processed publications.","It should be noted that conception of the present subject matter resulted from recognition of certain limitations associated with conventional pub\/sub systems and messaging environments. For example, the present subject matter improves pub\/sub systems and messaging environments by providing for subscriber acknowledgement of processing\/action completion by subscriber devices through a variety of acknowledgement mechanisms, as described above and in more detail below. As such, improved end-to-end information flow regarding message processing\/action completion within pub\/sub systems and messaging environments may be obtained through positive and negative action completion notifications (PACN\/NACN) from subscriber devices using a variety of acknowledgement techniques. Configuration of reporting granularity may be adjusted as appropriate for bandwidth, processor consumption, message priority, or other factors as appropriate for a given implementation.","The monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe (pub\/sub) messaging environment described herein may be performed in real time to allow prompt monitoring of message processing by subscriber devices. For purposes of the present description, real time shall include any time frame of sufficiently short duration as to provide reasonable response time for information processing acceptable to a user of the subject matter described. Additionally, the term \u201creal time\u201d shall include what is commonly termed \u201cnear real time\u201d\u2014generally meaning any time frame of sufficiently short duration as to provide reasonable response time for on-demand information processing acceptable to a user of the subject matter described (e.g., within a portion of a second or within a few seconds). These terms, while difficult to precisely define are well understood by those skilled in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","1","102","104","106","108","108","1","110","112","106","108","108","108","114","108","108","102","104","108","102","104","108","116","116","108","116"]},"As will be described in more detail below in association with  through , the message broker and tracking server  provides automated monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment, such as the system . The automated monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment is based upon coordinating processing confirmation responses from subscriber devices, such as any of the subscriber device_  through the subscriber device_M . The automated monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment may be implemented in a variety of technological permutations. Several example technological permutations have been described above and certain of those examples are described in more detail below. It is understood that many other possibilities exist for monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter.","It should be noted that the message broker and tracking server , the subscriber device_  through the subscriber device_M , the publisher device_  through the publisher device_N , and the administration server  may be any computing device capable of processing information as described above and in more detail below. Further, these devices may be portable computing devices, either by a user's ability to move the respective devices to different locations, or by the respective devices' association with a portable platform, such as a plane, train, automobile, or other moving vehicle. For example, the message broker and tracking server , the subscriber device_  through the subscriber device_M , the publisher device_  through the publisher device_N , and the administration server  may include devices such as a personal computer (e.g., desktop, laptop, etc.) or a handheld device (e.g., cellular telephone, personal digital assistant (PDA), email device, music recording or playback device, etc.), or any other device capable of processing information as described in more detail below. Further, the subscriber device_  through the subscriber device_M  may include telemetry devices, such as embedded heart monitors, train\/railway track monitors, and other devices used in telemetry-type applications or non-embedded devices as appropriate for a given implementation.","The network  may include any form of interconnection suitable for the intended purpose, including a private or public network such as an intranet or the Internet, respectively, direct inter-module interconnection, dial-up, wireless, or any other interconnection mechanism capable of interconnecting the respective devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","200","108","1","110","112","1","102","104","116","200","202","200","204","200","206"]},"The display  may include any display device, such as a cathode ray tube (CRT), liquid crystal display (LCD), light emitting diode (LED), electronic ink displays, projection, touchscreen, or other display element or panel. The input device  may include a computer keyboard, a keypad, a mouse, a pen, a joystick, or any other type of input device by which the user may interact with and respond to information on the display .","It should be noted that the display  and the input device  are illustrated with a dashed-line representation within  to indicate that they may be optional components for the core processing module  for certain implementations. Accordingly, the core processing module  may operate as a completely automated embedded device without direct user configurability or feedback. However, the core processing module  may also provide user feedback and configurability via the display  and the input device , respectively.","A communication module  provides interconnection capabilities that allow the core processing module  to communicate with other modules within a system, such as the system  of . The communication module  may include any electrical, protocol, and protocol conversion capabilities useable to provide the interconnection capabilities. Though the communication module  is illustrated as a component-level module for ease of illustration and description purposes, it should be noted that the communication module  may include any hardware, programmed processor(s), and memory used to carry out the functions of the communication module  as described above and in more detail below. For example, the communication module  may include additional controller circuitry in the form of application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), processors, antennas, and\/or discrete integrated circuits and components for performing communication and electrical control activities associated with the communication module . Additionally, the communication module  may include interrupt-level, stack-level, and application-level modules as appropriate. Furthermore, the communication module  may include any memory components used for storage, execution, and data processing for performing processing activities associated with the communication module . The communication module  may also form a portion of other circuitry described without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.","A memory  includes a configuration storage area  that stores configuration information for subscriber message processing tracking and reporting. The configuration information may include information regarding configured recipients of (e.g., publisher devices, administration devices, etc.) and outstanding requests for action completion notifications. The configuration information may also include information regarding subscriber device configurations, message type configurations that identify message types for tracking, or other indicia for identifying which messages to track and\/or subscriber devices to monitor for message processing completion, as described above and in more detail below. The configuration information may further include information for dynamically enabling and disabling one or more configuration options, such as configuration settings (e.g., one or more configuration flags).","The memory  also includes a message tracking storage area  that stores message tracking information, such as subscriber messages, message routing information for outstanding (e.g., currently tracked\/monitored) subscriber messages, message identifiers for messages that are configured for monitoring, message processing reports (e.g., action report messages), message tracking timing parameters (e.g., action report generation periodicity or time intervals), message processing statistics, message queues for received messages and messages sent to other devices, or other message tracking information as appropriate for a given implementation. The message tracking information may also include quality of service (QOS) parameters and results.","It is understood that the memory  may include any combination of volatile and non-volatile memory suitable for the intended purpose, distributed or localized as appropriate, and may include other memory segments not illustrated within the present example for ease of illustration purposes. For example, the memory  may include a code storage area, an operating system storage area, a code execution area, and a data area without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.","A message tracking and response processing module  is also illustrated. The message tracking and response processing module  provides message management and processing completion coordination with one or more devices that implement the core processing module , as described above and in more detail below. The message tracking and response processing module  implements the automated monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe (pub\/sub) messaging environment of the core processing module .","Though the message tracking and response processing module  is illustrated as a component-level module for ease of illustration and description purposes, it should be noted that the message tracking and response processing module  may include any hardware, programmed processor(s), and memory used to carry out the functions of this module as described above and in more detail below. For example, the message tracking and response processing module  may include additional controller circuitry in the form of application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), processors, and\/or discrete integrated circuits and components for performing communication and electrical control activities associated with the respective devices. Additionally, the message tracking and response processing module  may include interrupt-level, stack-level, and application-level modules as appropriate. Furthermore, the message tracking and response processing module  may include any memory components used for storage, execution, and data processing for performing processing activities associated with the module.","It should also be noted that the message tracking and response processing module  may form a portion of other circuitry described without departure from the scope of the present subject matter. Further, the message tracking and response processing module  may alternatively be implemented as an application stored within the memory . In such an implementation, the message tracking and response processing module  may include instructions executed by the CPU  for performing the functionality described herein. The CPU  may execute these instructions to provide the processing capabilities described above and in more detail below for the core processing module . The message tracking and response processing module  may form a portion of an interrupt service routine (ISR), a portion of an operating system, a portion of a browser application, or a portion of a separate application without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.","A timer\/clock module  is illustrated and used to determine timing and\/or date information, such as a timing for action completion notifications and other timing aspects, as described above and in more detail below. As such, the message tracking and response processing module  may utilize information derived from the timer\/clock module  for information processing activities, such as the monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment described herein.","An administrative processing module  is also shown. As described above, the core processing module  may be implemented in association with any of the devices described within , as appropriate for a given implementation. The administrative processing module  provides for configuration of a core processing module, such as the core processing module  of the message broker and tracking server , and provides one example of a device for alternative action completion reporting (e.g., other than reporting to publisher devices) as described above and in more detail below. Other alternative action completion reporting scenarios are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter. The administrative processing module  may be utilized, for example, by the administration server  to configure the monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe messaging environment described herein. Alternatively, the administrative processing module  may be implemented in association with the message broker and tracking server  for self-configuration and\/or administrative interaction and processing. The administrative processing module  is shown in a dashed-line representation within  to indicate that it may be an optional component for the core processing module  for certain implementations.","The subscription registry database  is also shown in association with the core processing module  and provides storage capabilities for information as described above. The subscription registry database  is also shown in a dashed-line representation within  to indicate that it may be an optional component for the core processing module  for certain implementations. For example, the message broker and tracking server  may incorporate the subscription registry database  within the core processing module to improve access and performance. Alternatively, the message broker and tracking server  may access the subscription registry database  as an external device, such as shown within , or may access the subscription registry database  via a network connection, such as the network .","The CPU , the display , the input device , the communication module , the memory , the message tracking and response processing module , the timer\/clock module , the administrative processing module , and the subscription registry database  are interconnected via an interconnection . The interconnection  may include a system bus, a network, or any other interconnection capable of providing the respective components with suitable interconnection for the respective purpose.","While the core processing module  is illustrated with and has certain components described, other modules and components may be associated with the core processing module  without departure from the scope of the present subject matter. Additionally, it should be noted that, while the core processing module  is described as a single device for ease of illustration purposes, the components within the core processing module  may be co-located or distributed and interconnected via a network without departure from the scope of the present subject matter. For a distributed arrangement, the display  and the input device  may be located at a point of sale device, kiosk, or other location, while the CPU  and memory  may be located at a local or remote server. Many other possible arrangements for components of the core processing module  are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter. It should also be understood that the information stored within the subscription registry database  may also be stored within the memory  without departure from the scope of the present subject matter. Accordingly, the core processing module  may take many forms and may be associated with many platforms.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["216","200","202"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","300","304","300","306","300","308","300","310","300"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4B","FIG. 4A"],"b":["400","108","400","400","402","400","1","102","104","404","400","406","400","1","110","112"]},"At decision point , the process  makes a determination as to whether to monitor action completion processing of the message by subscriber devices. This determination may be made, for example, based upon subscriber device types (e.g., telemetry devices, etc.), whether certain subscribers to the topic are configured to process requests for action completion notifications, whether message processing monitoring is configured\/enabled at the message broker and tracking server, whether the message includes an indicator added by the publisher device requesting monitoring of action completion by subscriber devices, or any other factor appropriate for a given implementation. This determination may further be made based upon an indicator or indicia within the message itself indicating that the publisher device has requested monitoring of action completion by one or more subscriber devices. Subscriber devices may be indicated within the indicia based upon subscriber device types, topic, or any other indicia appropriate for a given implementation.","In response to determining at decision point  not to monitor action completion processing of the message by subscriber devices, the process  sends the message to the subscriber devices that are registered\/subscribed to the subscription topic at block  and returns to decision point  and iterates as described above. In response to determining at decision point  to monitor action completion processing of the message by subscriber devices, the process  determines any configured monitoring criteria at block . Configured monitoring criteria may include, for example, a proportion\/percentage of subscribed devices to monitor, a criticality level of messaging to certain subscriber devices, whether to monitor message processing by durable subscriber devices that may presently be off-line, whether to monitor processing only for subscriber devices that are registered at the time of publication versus those devices that are sent retained publication messages, whether subscriber devices are currently connected to the message broker and tracking server, subscriber features such as an \u201cimportance\u201d rating or other factor associated with subscriber devices, or any other factor appropriate for a given implementation. As such, the process  may determine that at least one subscriber device configured to report action completion processing of the message includes a subscriber device that is at least one of configured for durable subscription message delivery and currently connected to the message broker and tracking server for subscription processing.","At block , the process  identifies subscriber devices configured to report processing completion based upon the configured monitoring criteria. At block , the process  selects subscriber devices from the configured subscriber devices to be monitored for message processing completion. As such, the process  may select a subset of available configured subscriber devices for message processing completion monitoring. As described above, selecting a subset of possible devices to monitor may assist with reducing processing or bandwidth, such as for example with messages of lower criticality or for subscriber devices with a lower importance level.","At block , the process  stores notification criteria for the message. Notification criteria may include an identifier of the publisher devices that sent the message so that that publisher device may be notified of message processing completion and status. Additionally, other devices, such as the administration server , may be configured to receive notifications of message processing completion and status. These additional or alternative devices may be identified within data created by the publisher device that published the message and sent as part of the message or may be a configuration option at the publish\/subscribe message tracking device that may be enabled for example by such an administration device.","At decision point , the process  makes a determination as to whether to configure the message to instruct the selected subscriber devices to report message processing completion and status. It should be noted that the message may already be configured to instruct subscriber devices to issue report messages by the publisher device that published the message. As such, the process  may determine whether the message includes an indicator requesting monitoring of action completion by subscriber devices added by the publisher device. Alternatively or additionally, the publish\/subscribe message tracking device may add additional reporting instructions to the message. It should be noted that the determination at decision point  may be considered optional and affirmative processing responsive to such a determination may be omitted for certain implementations. For example, for a two-phase transaction protocol implementation, subscribers may already be configured for transaction processing to get messages and then perform a commit as part of the transaction in response to completion of message processing. In such an implementation, the decision point  and any affirmative processing may be omitted.","In response to determining to configure the message to instruct the selected subscriber devices to report message processing completion and status, the process  configures the message with an instruction to report the action completion processing of the message and action completion processing report criteria to instruct the selected subscriber devices to report message processing completion and status at block . The action completion processing report criteria may include time-based constraints, such as a fixed time after publication, fixed time intervals, when any of the information in the report changes, or any other action completion processing report messaging constraint appropriate for a given implementation. As such, monitoring the action completion processing of the message by subscriber devices may include monitoring the action completion processing of the message based upon the configured action completion processing report criteria. It should be noted that reporting by subscriber devices may be configured to instruct the subscriber devices to invoke an API call for status reporting or via any other messaging interface as appropriate for a given implementation without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.","It should further be noted that any subscriber devices that are not capable of reporting message processing completion and status may ignore the instruction and process messages as they are configured to process messages, or subscriber devices that are not configured for report processing may be sent messages with configuration instruction either removed (if from the publisher device) or not inserted by the publish\/subscribe message tracking device. As such, the present subject matter may be integrated into systems with legacy devices without impact on other devices.","In response to completion of configuring the message at block  or in response to determining at decision point  not to configure or further configure the message, the process  sends the configured message to the selected subscriber devices that are designated to report message processing completion and status at block . It should be noted that sending the configured message to the configured devices may include sending the configured message to at least one subscriber device as a two-phase commit protocol implementation of the automated monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe (pub\/sub) messaging environment described herein. As such, the process  may send the message a subscriber device that is registered to the topic and configured to report action completion processing of the message by sending the message to at least one subscriber device as a two-phase commit transaction. In such an implementation, monitoring the action completion processing of the message by a subscriber device may include receiving an action report message from the subscriber device that includes a commit status indicating the action completion processing by at least one subscriber device, where the commit status includes a commit indicator or a rollback indicator. Alternatively, status may be provided by the respective subscriber devices as described in more detail below.","At block , the process sends the message to other subscriber devices (e.g., non-selected devices or legacy devices). At block , the process  sets a timer, such as the timer\/clock module . The process  transitions to the processing shown and described in association with .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["400","108","430","400"]},"In response to determining not to publish a report for action completion processing by subscriber devices at decision point , the process  makes a determination at decision point  as to whether an action report message has been received from at least one monitored subscriber device. It should be noted as described above that a message may be received as published by a subscriber device to an action completion processing report topic. As also described above, action report messages may be received in association with action reporting application programming interface (API) calls including a status (e.g., completed, processing pending, etc.) of the action completion processing by the at least one subscriber device, in association with a commit portion of a two-phase commit transaction for action report messaging, or any other technology as appropriate for a given implementation. In response to determining at decision point  that no action report messages have been received, the process  returns to decision point  and iterates as described above. In response to determining at decision point  that at least one action report message has been received, the process  processes the message at  and returns to decision point  and iterates as described above.","Returning to the description of decision point , in response to determining to publish a report for action completion processing by one or more subscriber devices, the process  determines notification criteria, such as notification criteria stored in association with block  described above, at block . At decision point , the process  makes a determination as to whether to formulate any statistics related to the subscriber message processing completion. For example, the process  may determine a total number of subscribers that have successfully completed processing of the message, a total number of subscribers that have attempted but failed to complete processing of the message, and a total number of subscribers that have not yet completed processing of the message, average processing times, or any other mathematical indicia appropriate for reporting within a given implementation. In response to determining to formulate statistics related to the subscriber message processing completion at decision point , the process  forms the configured statistics at block .","In response to forming the configured statistics at block  or in response to determining at decision point  not to form statistics, the process  publishes the monitoring results (e.g., action report messages or failure notifications) based upon the notification criteria (e.g., destination for report messages) of the monitored action completion processing at block . Publishing the monitoring results may include, for example, sending the monitoring results as an action report message to a first message queue specified within the original message by the publisher device, and publishing the monitoring results to a report topic subscribed to by the publisher device and designated for publication of report messages. As another alternative, for implementations where reports are to be published to multiple entities (e.g., the message publisher and another device such as an administration device), publishing of the monitoring results may include determining whether at least one other device is designated to receive published monitoring results and sending the monitoring results as an action report message to a second message queue accessible to an administration device in response to determining that the first message queue is not accessible to the administration device. Publishing the monitoring results may further include providing the monitoring results to callers of an action reporting application programming interface (API), where the callers include the publisher device and an administration device, or other forms of publication as appropriate for a given implementation. The published monitoring results may include, for example, a unique identifier associating the publishing monitoring results with the message, a total number of subscriber devices eligible to receive the message, a total number of subscribers that have successfully processed the message, a total number of subscriber that have attempted to process the message but failed, and a total number of subscribers that have yet to process the message, or any other information appropriate for a given implementation.","At decision point , the process  makes a determination as to whether any additional reports will be issued, such as where an incremental or intermediate report has been issued at block . In response to determining at decision point  that additional reporting will be performed, the process  makes a determination at decision point  as to whether to reset the timer. In response to determining not to reset the timer, the process  returns to decision point  and iterates as described above. In response to determining to reset the timer at block , the process  returns to the processing associated with  at block  and iterates as described above. In response to determining at decision point  that additional reporting will not be performed, the process returns to  at decision point  and iterates as described above.","As such, the process  monitors subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe (pub\/sub) messaging environment. Subscriber devices that are configured to report processing completion and status of messages are identified and subscribers are selected for monitoring of message processing completion. Message processing completion reports are generated based upon message reporting configurations, either as requested from publisher devices or as configured for a message broker and tracking server. Action report messages may include statistics associated with processing completion at different subscriber devices and iterative processing of action report messages may be integrated over time to provide dynamic granular reporting configurations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","1","102","104","502","500","500","504","500","506","502"]},"In response to determining to request subscriber monitoring for the message to be published, the process  configures the message with the request for subscriber monitoring at block . Configuring the message to request subscriber monitoring may include adding one or more identifiers to the message, such as time-based reporting requests, a preferred number of subscribers to monitor, statistical reporting requests (e.g., number of successfully processed messages, etc.), and other monitoring and\/or reporting criteria.","At block , the process  publishes the message to a publish\/subscribe message tracking device, such as the message broker and tracking server . At block , the process  sets a timer. The timer may be used by the publisher device to determine, for example, when to check for action report messages\/subscriber processing reporting. As described above, API calls may be made available to publisher devices for retrieving action report messages. Other reporting options are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter.","At decision point , the process  makes a determination as to whether any monitoring status has been received or is available (e.g., via an API call), as appropriate for the given implementation. To reduce complexity of the present example, this determination will be referred to below as a determination as to whether monitoring status has been received regardless of the particular implementation for obtaining or receiving the monitoring status.","In response to determining that no monitoring status has been received, the process  makes a determination at decision point  as to whether the timer has expired. In response to determining that the timer has not expired, the process  returns to decision point  and iterates as described above and in more detail below.","In response to determining at decision point  that monitoring status has been received, the process  makes a determination at decision point  as to whether final status or partial status has been received. Partial status may be provided by a publish\/subscribe message tracking device periodically or as requested within the published message. Final status may be received in association with completion of processing by all specified or configured subscriber devices or in response to a monitoring timeout and\/or failure of processing by one or more subscriber devices.","In response to determining that partial status has been received at decision point  (e.g, final status has not yet been received), the process  logs the received partial status at block  and returns to decision point  and iterates as described above and in more detail below. In response to determining at decision point  that final status has been received, the process  makes a determination at decision point  as to whether all subscribers have successfully processed the published message. In response to determining that all subscribers have successfully processed the published message, the process  returns to decision point  and iterates as described above and in more detail below.","Returning to decision point , in response to determining that the timer has expired, or in response to determining at decision point  that all subscribers have not successfully processed the published message, the process  logs an error at block  and returns to decision point  and iterates as described above.","As such, the process  allows publisher devices to request and process action report messages that indicate processing success for published messages. The process  may configure a message for monitoring by one or more subscriber devices and send the message to a publish\/subscribe message tracking device for implementation of the requested processing. As described above, the publish\/subscribe message tracking device may also implement message configuration to enhance and\/or change the requested processing monitoring. Any modifications by the publish\/subscribe message tracking device to processing monitoring may be communicated to the publisher device, for example, via one or more partial status messages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","1","110","112","602","600","108","600","600","604","600","606","602"]},"In response to determining that monitoring has been requested, the process  determines the requested action reporting at block . The requested action reporting may include partial (e.g., processing status) reporting. At block , the process  begins processing the message. At block , the process  sets a timer, such as for any requested reporting interval or for final action completion reporting. At decision point , the process  makes a determination as to whether the timer has expired. In response to determining that the timer has expired, the process  makes a determination at decision point  as to whether message processing has been completed. In response to determining that processing has not been completed, the process  generates a partial action status report at block . At block , the process  sends the partial action status report to the broker (e.g., publish\/subscribe message tracking device), and returns to block  to reset the timer and iterates as described above and in more detail below. As described above, action report messages may be sent to a publish\/subscribe message tracking device in a variety of manners, such as API calls available to the publish\/subscribe message tracking device or other mechanism as appropriate for a given implementation.","In response to determining at decision point  that message processing has been completed, the process  makes a determination at decision point  as to whether message processing has been successfully completed. In response to determining that message processing has been successfully completed, the process  generates a final action completion report with a successful completion status indicator at block . For a two-phase protocol implementation, the process  may create a commit message including a commit status indicating commitment to indicate the action completion processing by the subscriber device. At block , the process  sends the final action completion report with the successful completion status indicator to the broker by a mechanism appropriate for the given implementation and returns to decision point  and iterates as described above and below.","In response to determining at decision point  that message processing has not been successfully completed, the process  generates an action processing error report at block . For a two-phase protocol implementation, the process  may create a rollback message including a non-commit status indicating rollback of the transaction to indicate failure of the message processing by the subscriber device. At block , the process  sends the error report to the broker by a mechanism appropriate for the given implementation and returns to decision point  and iterates as described above.","As such, the process  allows subscriber devices to respond to requests for message processing status and action report messages that indicate processing success for received messages. The process  determines requested action reporting criteria (e.g., periodicity, final, etc.) and sends action report messages to a publish\/subscribe message tracking device.","As described above in association with  through , the example systems and processes provide monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe (pub\/sub) messaging environment. Many other variations and additional activities associated with monitoring of subscriber message processing in a publish\/subscribe (pub\/sub) messaging environment are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter.","Those skilled in the art will recognize, upon consideration of the above teachings, that certain of the above examples are based upon use of a programmed processor, such as CPU . However, the invention is not limited to such example embodiments, since other embodiments could be implemented using hardware component equivalents such as special purpose hardware and\/or dedicated processors. Similarly, general purpose computers, microprocessor based computers, micro-controllers, optical computers, analog computers, dedicated processors, application specific circuits and\/or dedicated hard wired logic may be used to construct alternative equivalent embodiments.","As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system, method or computer program product. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.) or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a \u201ccircuit,\u201d \u201cmodule\u201d or \u201csystem.\u201d Furthermore, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium(s) having computer readable program code embodied thereon.","Any combination of one or more computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, or device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer readable storage medium would include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), an optical storage device, a magnetic storage device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document, a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain, or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein, for example, in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms, including, but not limited to, electro-magnetic, optical, or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate, propagate, or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium, including but not limited to wireless, wireline, optical fiber cable, RF, etc., or any suitable combination of the foregoing.","Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language such as Java\u2122, Smalltalk, C++ or the like and conventional procedural programming languages, such as the \u201cC\u201d programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user's computer, partly on the user's computer, as a stand-alone software package, partly on the user's computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario, the remote computer may be connected to the user's computer through any type of network, including a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), or the connection may be made to an external computer (for example, through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider).","Aspects of the present invention have been described with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems) and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer-readable storage medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer, other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that, in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","A data processing system suitable for storing and\/or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code, bulk storage, and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.","Input\/output or I\/O devices (including but not limited to keyboards, displays, pointing devices, etc.) can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I\/O controllers.","Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems, cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca,\u201d \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d and\/or \u201ccomprising,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","The corresponding structures, materials, acts, and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure, material, or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
