---
title: Video service manager
abstract: A method may include receiving a first order associated with processing a media file and estimating resources associated with fulfilling the first order. The method may also include generating a first logical circuit representing network elements to fulfill the first order and connections between the network elements. The method may further include allocating resources based on the first logical circuit and executing the order using the allocated resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09118431&OS=09118431&RS=09118431
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09118431
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111121
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND INFORMATION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Consumer demand for media is increasing. For example, consumers often watch and\/or listen to various media at home, while traveling, at work, etc. As a result, the number of communication channels for delivering media content and the number of different types of devices for playing the content has also increased.","The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also, the following detailed description does not limit the invention.","Implementations described herein relate to an infrastructure for processing media from a head end through various network elements, in accordance with customer orders. The network elements may include, for example, transcoders, encryptors, ad splicers, etc., that are involved in processing the media. The infrastructure may dynamically evaluate the customer's request and generate processing paths or logical flows\/circuits through the network elements that allow orders having various processing complexities to be processed in accordance with the customer's order.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","110","120","130","140","150"]},"Content creator  (referred to collectively as content creators  or individually as content creator ) may represent one or more creators of content that wish to package and\/or distribute the content to other parties, such as consumers . For example, content creators  may include movie or television studios, music companies, publishers, game developers, parties who generate user generated content (UGC), websites, blogsites, etc. Content creators  may provide content to DDC  for transcoding, packaging and\/or distribution, as described in detail below. The term \u201ccontent,\u201d as used herein, may include any type of media, such as video, audio, multi-media, textual data, etc. The term \u201ccontent\u201d may also be referred to herein as \u201cvideo assets\u201d or \u201cassets.\u201d","Advertiser  (referred to collectively as advertisers  or individually as advertiser ) may represent one or more parties that wish to insert advertising into media files. For example, advertiser  may contract with a content creator  and\/or digital media retailer  to insert an advertisement into a media stream provided to consumers . DDC  may insert the advertisement into the stream in accordance with the agreement between the parties.","DMR  may represent one or more business entities that receive media content from various parties and resell it to end users. For example, DMRs  may include broadcasters, cable companies, direct broadcast satellite (DBS) providers, Internet protocol television (IPTV) providers, mobile phone TV providers, online retailers, etc. DMRs  may receive media content from DDC  and sell\/provide the content to consumers .","Consumer  may represent one or more consumers  that receive content originally generated by or provided by content creators  and that has been processed by DDC . For example, DDC  may format and package content for distribution by DMRs  and\/or DDC  to consumers .","DDC  may include a server\/computing device or a set of servers\/computing devices associated with, for example, processing media content. For example, as described briefly above, DDC , also referred to herein as DDC platform , may provide an automated environment in which content from content creators  is transformed and packaged for distribution in any number of formats, based on the particular requirements associated with DMRs . In an exemplary implementation, DDC  may also aggregate various data and insert advertisements into the media content. DDC , consistent with implementations described herein, may also utilize flexible workflows to streamline the formatting and packaging of content for digital distribution.","As described above, the exemplary configuration illustrated in  is provided for simplicity. It should be understood that a typical network may include more or fewer devices than illustrated in . For example, it should be understood that network  may include a large number (e.g., hundreds or thousands) of different types of user devices associated with consumers , such as televisions, cellular telephones, personal computers (PCs), laptop computers, tablet computers, notebook computers, netbook computers, personal digital assistants (PDAs), etc.","It should also be understood network  may include one or more wired, wireless and\/or optical networks (not shown) that interconnect the components illustrated in  and enable the components in  to communicate with one another. For example, network  may include one or more public switched telephone networks (PSTNs) or other type of switched network. Network  may also include one or more wireless networks and may include a number of transmission towers for receiving wireless signals and forwarding the wireless signals toward the intended destination. Network  may further include one or more satellite networks, one or more packet switched networks, such as an Internet protocol (IP) based network, a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), an intranet, the Internet, or another type of network that is capable of transmitting data from a source device to a destination device.","Further, various functions are described below as being performed by particular components in network . In other implementations, various functions described below as being performed by one device may be performed by another device or multiple devices, and various functions described as being performed by multiple devices may be combined and performed by a single device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["150","150","210","220","230","240","250","270","290"]},"Databases  may store work unit definitions, workflows, parameters, tables that are associated with various components in DDC , intermediate or end results of processing performed by different processes in DDC , etc. The term \u201cwork unit,\u201d as used herein, may refer to a description of a set of one or more operations that a system may perform on content (e.g., overlaying subtitles on a video, inserting advertisements into a video, reformatting a video, etc.).","Order management system  may include one or more computing devices or servers for managing customer orders, generating reports, etc. In an exemplary implementation, order management system  may include client components that interface with components on DDC service operation management system . The client components (e.g., web browser) may receive customer orders, requests for reports, etc., and relay the received information to the components on DDC service operation management system  for the creation, validation, estimation, submission, approval, execution and reporting of activities associated with the customer orders, request for reports, etc. For example, a customer order may be completed by sending, to a component on DDC service operation management system , a selection of a particular workflow that will drive the processing of content associated with the order.","Data and security system  may include one or more computing devices or servers that provide for authentication and authorization of users having roles in DDC  and\/or for taking actions that are associated with the authorized roles (e.g., create user accounts, remove user accounts, generate an initial password, etc.). For example, when a user logs in as a DDC operator, the user may be authorized to design work units and\/or compose workflows. In an exemplary implementation, data and security system  may interface with order management system , DDC SOM system  and DDC support system .","DDC service operation management (SOM) system  may include one or more servers or computing devices to control the overall operation, configuration, and management of DDC . For example, DDC SOM system  may include operation management system  and SOM modules . Via a client component that communicates with operation management system , a user may control the configuration, administration and operation of DDC . For example, in one implementation, via a web browser or another client application, a user may control security, compose a workflow, administer accounts that are associated with content creator  or DMR , submit a work order, add data and storage to DDC , manage resources, manage DDC configuration (e.g., create a work unit), manage catalogs of content, run reports, monitor DDC work order (e.g., information associated with a work order), etc.","In providing each of such services to a client, operation management system  may employ SOM modules . SOM modules  may include components\/modules that correspond to the above-listed services. For example, SOM modules  may include a security manager, workflow manager, account manager, work order manager, data and storage manager, resource management module, configuration manager, asset management module, catalog management module, monitoring and reporting module, etc. DDC SOM system  may further include an operational graphical user interface (GUI) for interfacing with SOM modules.","DDC resource management system  may include one or more servers or computing devices that support the capacity management of resources associated with network elements (NEs) in DDC . As illustrated in , DDC resource management system  may include work order (WO) server , WO estimator , WO decomposer and optimizer , WO scheduler , runtime resource manager  and metrics collector . Components - may aid in scheduling and allocating resources associated with fulfilling customer orders, as described in detail below. DDC resource management system  may also include a circuit design component to generate logical circuits or paths that will be used to fulfill customer orders, as described in detail below.","WO server  may provide work order-related interfaces to operation management system  and\/or SOM modules , and may communicate with WO estimator , WO decomposer and optimizer , and WO scheduler  to submit, decompose, validate, and save work orders, and to estimate, schedule, and reserve resources during the order submission.","Work order estimator  may estimate the cost of completing a decomposed work order across work units of a workflow, based on resources that are associated with the work units for each resource type. Work order estimator  may store the cost in one of databases  in terms of resource capacity units (RCUs) and duration of time required to complete tasks or processes that are associated with the work order.","WO decomposer and optimizer  may break down an order into work units based on the workflow associated with the order. Furthermore, based on the decomposition, WO decomposer and optimizer  may generate work unit tasks, or simply \u201ctasks,\u201d assign task parameters, and create task connectors, which are described below.","WO scheduler  may match cost estimates for different resource types for a work order to available time slots in an allocation schedule across different network elements (e.g., hardware\/software components that perform underlying operations for a work unit). As a result of the scheduling, WO scheduler  may output start and end times for each of the work unit tasks and for resource reservations.","Runtime resource manager  may allocate network elements\/user groups to a process at the time of execution on behalf of a work unit. Runtime resource manager  may attempt to honor scheduled reservations of resources. However, if the resources are unavailable, runtime resource manager  may attempt to obtain replacement resources.","Metrics collector  may determine, for each work unit, actual time of completion and used\/consumed resources associated with the execution of the work unit. Based on previous actual execution measurements, metrics collector  may modify factors that are used to estimate the resource and time necessary to complete a task associated with a work unit for a particular asset.","In an exemplary implementation, resource management system  may represent the functions performed by various NEs used to execute work order tasks as resource types and represent the capacity of the NEs using resource capacity units (RCUs). The term \u201cresource type,\u201d as used herein, may include categories of consumable network resources used to schedule, reserve, bill and manage network capacity. Examples of resource types include bandwidth, storage, the ability to transcode an asset from one format into another format. Resource types may also include resources associated with humans involved in the processing of assets, such as a human's ability to review a movie asset, etc. The term \u201cRCU\u201d, as used herein, may include the unit of measure for a resource type. Examples of RCUs include megabits for bandwidth, gibabytes for storage, transcoding task units and\/or CPU processing time for transcoding operations, etc.","DDC work order execution (WOE) system  may include one or more servers or computing devices to manage the flow and execution of work units of a defined workflow associated with a work order. DDC WOE system  may include a workflow (WF) command processor  (also referred to herein as command processor ), work unit (WU) adapters , and network elements . For simplicity,  does not show other components of WOE system . Depending on the implementation, DDC WOE system  may include additional, fewer, or different components than those illustrated in . For example, WOE system  may include a work unit processor (not shown).","Command processor  may drive work order execution. Command processor  may include a WO manager and WO processor. The WO manager may provide interfaces to resource management system  for initiating an execution of a work order, retrieving the status of the work order, suspending\/resuming the work order execution, canceling the work order, etc. The WO processor may coordinate work unit tasks for completion of a work order. In coordinating different work unit tasks, the WO processor may sequence the tasks for optimum execution time and resource utilization. The WO processor may communicate with runtime resource manager  for allocation and de-allocation of resources. The work unit processor may dispatch processes\/threads to perform a work unit task.","Work unit adapter  may include interfaces for adapting network elements to perform media content processing corresponding to a work unit. In one implementation, each work unit adapter  may be versioned and may include Java code. Each work unit adapter  may monitor the corresponding network element to prevent over-allocation of the network element, maintain normal execution of logic associated with the network element, and provide real-time information to metrics collector .","Network elements  may include physical or logical network devices\/components for processing media content.","DDC support system  may include one or more servers or computing devices and\/or personnel to provide support services, such as creation of work units, composition of workflows, etc., billing support, contracting management, pricing, etc.","The configuration shown in  is for illustrative purposes. In other configurations and\/or implementations, functions that are associated with one component or system shown in  may be performed by one or more other components in , any of the components may be connected to any other of the components, and functions of one component may be included in another component. Accordingly, in the other configurations or implementations, DDC  may include additional, fewer, different, or a different arrangement of components than those illustrated in .","As described above, DDC  may provide an automated environment in which content from content creators  is transformed and packaged for distribution in any number of formats, based on the particular requirements associated with DMRs , consumers  and\/or other devices, systems, etc.  illustrates an exemplary configuration of a video service management system  of DDC  which controls the activation and de-activation of data streams (e.g., live streams or linear streams) through various network elements, such as ad splicers, transcoders, encryptors, etc., and outputs a stream in a desired format to, for example, DMR  or a media delivery fabric or switch.","Referring to , video service management system  includes video service manager , transcoder , ad inserter , digital rights management (DRM) module , quality assurance (QA) module , circuit design logic , switch  and switch . The components shown in  are provided for simplicity. It should be understood that video service management system  may include additional and\/or different elements than those illustrated in .","Video service manager (VSM)  provides instructions to network elements (NEs) responsible for processing a particular order. For example, VSM  may provide instructions to transcoder , ad inserter , DRM module  and QA module . In an exemplary implementation, VSM  interfaces directly with the relevant NEs by invoking the appropriate application programming interfaces (APIs). In cases where the API is not published, VSM  may rely on other components in DDC  to convert calls from VSM  to a proprietary standard that the NE can understand. In addition, in cases where a human intervention\/processing is required with respect to an order, VSM  may create a human task that may be needed to complete the order.","VSM  also interfaces with switches  and  to create stream routing paths. For example, VSM  may create a stream routing path between ad inserter  and transcoder  via switch . The routing path may be used when ad inserter  needs to insert advertisements in a transcoded media file.","Transcoder  may be a network element associated with transcoding a media file from one format into another format based on order requirements. For example, transcoder  may support adaptive streaming with multiple bit rates and various packaging\/chunking formats, such as Flash, HTTP live streaming (HLS), Silverlight, etc.","Ad inserter  may be a network element associated with splicing ads into a media file or media stream. For example, a media file\/stream may include insertion points for inserting advertisements. Ad inserter  may include logic for inserting particular ads at the ad insertion points. The inserted ads may be selected based on geographical location, a subscriber profile or other information.","DRM module  may be a network element associated with ensuring that digital rights management associated with digital use licenses for a media file are clearly documented for DMRs . For example, DDC , via DRM module , may issue digital use licenses to consumers within timeframes agreed upon with the content providers  and DMRs  that will distribute the content.","QA module  may represent a network element that performs quality assurance on a transcoded media file prior to forwarding the media file to a DMR  via switch . For example, QA module  may ensure that the file is encoded in the correct format, encrypted (if necessary), etc., before the file is forwarded to switch . QA module  may also package the content for delivery to end users.","Circuit design logic  may be a sub-component of resource management system  or may be located externally from resource management system . In either case, circuit design logic  identifies NEs and other elements (e.g., human elements) to fulfill a customer order for live and\/or linear streaming of content. Circuit design logic  may utilize a list of all NEs and device types used to support live\/linear streaming in DDC . For example, circuit design logic  and\/or resource management system  may include a memory storing a list of all NEs and their corresponding functions. In an exemplary implementation, circuit design logic  may also assign various NEs to \u201clogical functional zones.\u201d For example, each functional zone may be a collection of NEs responsible for performing a specific function in the order process (e.g., transcoding, ad splicing, encrypting, etc.).","Circuit design logic  may design logical connections between various NEs across functional zones to create live\/linear streams in accordance with formats\/requirements specified in the customer order. For example, circuit design logic  may design connections between a source feed from a head end (e.g., satellite network or other network that distributes content from content creators  or other entities to DDC , also referred to herein as a super head end) to the functional zones responsible for transcoding the content, splicing ads into the content and packaging the content for delivery, as described in more detail below.","Switch  may receive information from a head end associated with DDC . For example, switch  may receive content from a network (e.g., a satellite network, a wired network) and forward the content to components of DDC  for further processing.","Switch  may be associated with forwarding packaged content to end users, such as DMRs . For example, switch  may forward content associated with customer orders to DMRs , who may provide the packaged\/transformed content to consumers , as described in detail below.","The components of video service management system  illustrated in  interact with other components of DDC , such as order management system , resource management system , DDC work order execution system , etc., to control the processing of customer orders and the activation and de-activation of data streams, as described in detail below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","310","370","320","330","340","350","380","390","100","150","220","230","240","250","270","290"]},"Referring to , video service manager  (or any of the other components illustrated in ) may include bus , processor , memory , input device , output device  and communication interface . Bus  may include a path that permits communication among the elements of video service manager .","Processor  may include one or more processors, microprocessors, or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory  may include a random access memory (RAM) or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor . Memory  may also include a read only memory (ROM) device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and instructions for use by processor . Memory  may further include a solid state drive (SDD). Memory  may also include a magnetic and\/or optical recording medium (e.g., a hard disk) and its corresponding drive.","Input device  may include a mechanism that permits a user to input information, such as a keyboard, a keypad, a mouse, a pen, a microphone, a touch screen, voice recognition and\/or biometric mechanisms, etc. Output device  may include a mechanism that outputs information to the user, including a display, a printer, a speaker, etc.","Communication interface  may include a transceiver for communicating with other devices within DDC  via wired, wireless or optical mechanisms. Communication interface  may also include one or more radio frequency (RF) transmitters, receivers and\/or transceivers and one or more antennas for transmitting and receiving RF data via, for example, network . Communication interface  may also include a modem or an Ethernet interface to a LAN or other mechanisms for communicating with elements in a network or system, such as network  or another network\/system.","The exemplary configuration illustrated in  is provided for simplicity. It should be understood that devices in video service manager  (or any of the other components illustrated in ) may include more or fewer devices than illustrated in . In an exemplary implementation, one or more components of video service manager  may perform operations in response to processor  executing sequences of instructions contained in a computer-readable medium, such as memory . A computer-readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. The software instructions may be read into memory  from another computer-readable medium (e.g., a hard disk drive (HDD), SSD, etc.), or from another device via communication interface . Alternatively, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the implementations described herein. Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 5","FIG. 6A"],"b":["300","220","250","510","605"]},"Resource management system  may receive the request and forward the request to circuit design logic  (). Circuit design logic  may design a logical connection between the source feed (e.g., from the head end\/super head end) to the functional zone responsible for processing the order. For example, the order may include transcoding the content to MPEG-4 format, splicing ads into the content and packaging the content with the appropriate DRM licenses for distribution. In this case, circuit design logic  may design a logical connection that connects the source feed associated with the content to a functional zone associated with transcoding to MPEG-4, connects the output stream from the transcoder NE to an ad splicing functional zone, and connects the output of the ad splicing NE to the functional zone responsible for packing the content for delivery. The logical connections between the functional zones\/NEs are referred to herein as a \u201ccircuit\u201d and\/or logic\/logical circuit. In addition, the term \u201cconnection points\u201d (CPs) will be used to describe the logical connections that circuit design logic  establishes between various NEs in the functional zones.","Circuit design logic  may forward information to resource management system  identifying the functional zones needed for the order (block ; , ). Resource management system  may receive the functional zone information and \u201csoft lock\u201d the resources (block ). For example, resource management system  may temporarily reserve the resources needed to fulfill the order. Resource management system  may also provide the estimate to order management system  ().","Order management system  may receive the order estimate and determine whether to place the order. For example, if order management system  determines that the \u201ccost\u201d associated with the estimate is too high or the order cannot be processed in the desired time frame, order management system  may signal a customer associated with the order that the order cannot be fulfilled based on the customer's preferred parameters. In this example, assume that the order can be fulfilled. Order management system  forwards the order to resource management system  (). Resource management system  receives the order and locks the resources needed to fulfill the order.","Resource management system  and circuit design logic  may prioritize the usage of the most efficient NEs for the logical circuit that will be used to fulfill the order. For example, resource management system  may forward information to circuit design logic  inquiring whether a previously designed\/existing circuit may be used for the current order (block ; , ). Continuing with the example above, if a circuit exists that connects the source file to an ad splicer, connects the output from the ad splicer to a transcoder capable of transcoding the content to MPEG-4, and connects output from the transcoder to an encryptor for encrypting and delivering the processed content to the DMR, circuit design logic  may return information identifying circuit details of the previously used circuit (block ; , ).","If circuit design logic  is not able to identify a previously used\/existing circuit that can be used for the current order (block \u2014no), circuit design logic  may generate a new circuit to fulfill the order and forward the circuit details to resource management system  (block ; , ). For example, circuit design logic  may identify and prioritize the usage of the most efficient functional zones\/NEs for a logical circuit that will fulfill the order.","In either case, resource management system  receives the logical circuit design and determines whether the circuit\/NEs identified by circuit design logic  are available when allocating resources (block ). If the resources are available, resource management system  may utilize the available resources for fulfilling the order (block ). For example, resource management system  may forward information identifying the NEs to VSM  (). If, however, the resources\/NEs are not available (bock \u2014no), resource management system  may utilize the best available NEs to fulfill the customer order (block ). In this case, circuit design logic  may update its circuit design based on the NEs actually selected by resource management system .","After the circuit is designed\/selected, VSM  may connect with the functional zones\/NEs to fulfill the order. For example, VSM  may communicate with transcoder  via a multicast address assigned to a functional zone associated with transcoders identified in the logical circuit that can perform the desired transcoding (e.g., MPEG-4 transcoding in this example) (, ). The communication to transcoder  may also include a stream ID that allows the transcoder  to identify the appropriate media stream. In an exemplary implementation, VSM  may also ensure that the selected transcoder  is set up with the proper configuration prior to forwarding the stream ID to the selected transcoder . In some instances, if the selected transcoder  is not set up with the proper configuration, VSM  may communicate with the transcoder  to provide the proper configuration. After the transcoding is complete, transcoder  may send a successful acknowledgement to VSM  ().","VSM  may communicate with ad inserter  via a multicast address associated with the functional zone identified in the logical circuit and provide a stream ID for the partially processed stream that allows ad inserter  to identify the appropriate stream in which ads will be inserted (). Similar to the description above with respect to the selected transcoder\/NE , VSM  may also ensure that the selected ad inserter  is set up with the proper configuration prior to forwarding the stream ID to the selected ad inserter . In some instances, if the selected ad inserter  is not set up with the proper configuration (e.g., ad inserter  is not set up with the proper geographic information needed to insert local ads), VSM  may communicate with ad inserter  to provide the proper configuration. After ad inserter  inserts the desired ads, ad inserter  may send a signal\/communication to VSM  indicating that the ads were successfully inserted ().","VSM  may then communicate with the next functional zone\/NE identified in the logical circuit. For example, VSM  may communicate with DRM module  via a multicast address identified in the logical circuit and send a stream ID identifying the appropriate stream (). If the selected DRM module  is not set up with the proper configuration (e.g., based on DRM requirements associated with the DMR for which the order is being processed), VSM  may communicate with DRM module  to provide the proper configuration. After DRM module  inserts or appends the appropriate use\/license information to the stream, DRM module  may send a signal\/communication to VSM  indicating that the use\/license information was successfully inserted ().","VSM  may then communicate with the next functional zone\/NE identified in the logical circuit. For example, VSM  may communicate with QA\/packaging module  via a multicast address identified in the logical circuit and send a stream ID identifying the appropriate stream (). If the selected QA\/packaging module  is not set up with the proper configuration (e.g., based on requirements associated with the DMR for which the order is being processed), VSM  may communicate with QA\/packaging module  to provide the proper configuration. After QA\/packaging module  performs quality assurance checks and\/or performs various packaging associated with the order, QA\/packaging module  may send a signal\/communication to VSM  indicating that file\/stream was successfully processed (). VSM  may then forward a success acknowledgement to order management system  (). In this manner, video service management system  may facilitate efficient processing of media files, including live media streams, in accordance with customer orders.","As described above, circuit design logic  utilizes functional zones to generate circuits for executing orders.  illustrates a hierarchical graphical representation of a number of logic circuits and re-use of an existing circuit to process orders to different DMRs , labeled DMR , DMR , DMR  and DMR . Referring to , representation  includes a source  and NEs -. Representation  also illustrates a number of functional zones associated with performing various functions. For example, functional zone  corresponds to the source stream, functional zone  corresponds to ad splicing, functional zone  corresponds to transcoding and functional zone  corresponds to encrypting.","In this example, assume that an order associated with DMR  requires ad splicing, transcoding and encrypting of the source file . In this case, logical circuit  includes source file  connected to NE  in functional zone , NE  connected to NE  in functional zone , NE  connected to NE  in functional zone , and NE  sending the stream to DMR , as illustrated by the lines labeled  in .","Assume that a second order involves source file , ad splicing and MPEG-4 transcoding, but no encrypting. As illustrated in , circuit design logic  may generate or design a circuit  that re-uses the portion of existing circuit  labeled  and shown in bold in . Circuit design logic  may forward the output from NE  in functional zone  to DMR , as illustrated in .","Representation  illustrates logic circuits  and . More particularly, logic circuit  includes SRC  in functional zone  connected to NE  in functional zone  and NE  in functional zone . The output from NE  may be forwarded to DMR . Logic circuit  includes SRC  in functional zone  connected to NE  that spans functional zones  and . As illustrated, NE  is shown being located across functional zone  and functional zone . In this case, NE  performs functions associated with both functional zones  and  (i.e., ad splicing and transcoding). The output of NE  may for forwarded to DMR .","In this manner, a hierarchical structure generated by circuit design logic  may help eliminate creation of duplicate streams when servicing orders having similar requirements for multiple DMRs  and\/or other end users. In situations, when a live or linear stream circuit is no longer being used to service streams or files, circuit design logic  may purge that circuit. As a result, the use of the NEs in the functional zones may be rebalanced to provide optimal network element usage within DDC . That is, the NEs associated with the circuits being purged will be available to service other orders.","Implementations described herein provide an infrastructure for processing media from a head end through various network elements. The infrastructure may dynamically evaluate the customer's request, generate processing paths or circuits through the network elements and determine if any existing paths may be re-used. This allows the infrastructure to efficiently process customer orders.","The foregoing description of exemplary implementations provides illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the embodiments.","For example, features have been described above with respect to components of video service management system  performing various tasks to process requests and facilitate execution of customer orders. In other implementations, other components, systems, platforms, etc., in, for example, DDC  may perform some or all of these tasks. In addition, in some implementations, network  may include multiple video service management systems  and\/or DDCs .","Further, while series of acts have been described with respect to  and series of signal flows have been described with respect to , the order of the acts and\/or signal flows may be varied in other implementations. Moreover, non-dependent acts or signal flows may be implemented in parallel.","It will be apparent that various features described above may be implemented in many different forms of software, firmware, and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement the various features is not limiting. Thus, the operation and behavior of the features were described without reference to the specific software code\u2014it being understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the various features based on the description herein.","Further, certain portions of the invention may be implemented as \u201clogic\u201d that performs one or more functions. This logic may include hardware, such as one or more processors, microprocessors, application specific integrated circuits, field programmable gate arrays or other processing logic, software, or a combination of hardware and software.","In the preceding specification, various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto, and additional embodiments may be implemented, without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.","No element, act, or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the article \u201ca\u201d is intended to include one or more items. Further, the phrase \u201cbased on\u201d is intended to mean \u201cbased, at least in part, on\u201d unless explicitly stated otherwise."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0003","num":"0002"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
