---
title: Method and apparatus for sensory tags providing sound, smell and haptic feedback
abstract: Systems and methods for creating “feelings” from tangible objects in a responsive and cost efficient manner are provided. In accordance with such systems and methods, near field communication (NFC) tags are embedded into tangible objects, e.g., Compact Discs (CDs), books, posters, etc., where the NFC tags include feeling/sensory feedback parameters associated with the object in which the NFC tag is embedded. That is, such NFC tags are able to stimulate one or more senses, such as the human senses of sight, hearing, touch, smell, and taste. Thus, sensory feedback is provided via tangible objects, where only minimal cost (e.g., a few cents) is added to the production/manufacture of such objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08988198&OS=08988198&RS=08988198
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 08988198
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20110630
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS"],"p":["The present application relates generally to sensory feedback in electronic devices and, more particularly, to tags, such as, e.g., near field communication (NFC) tags that provide sound, smell, and\/or haptic feedback to a user.","Wireless or cellular service providers as well as device manufacturers are continually challegened to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing, e.g., compelling services, applications, and\/or content. One area of development relates to the integration of digital information and services with tangible objects, such as printed media, clothing, various physical products, etc. Historically, producers and manufacturers of such tangible objects have not been able to take advantage of the growing availability of digital information. However, with the development of low-cost radio frequency (RF) memory tags that can be associated with an object, digital information can be linked to any object tagged with such an RF memory tag.","In addition to RF memory tags, further development has revolved around near field communication (NFC) Forum type tags that may be incorporated into\/associated with tangible objects. The NCF Forum is an industry consortium geared to further developing and improving NFC technology. Based on NFC technology, the NFC Forum created the NFC Data Exchange Format (NDEF) and the NFC Forum type tag operation, where NDEF refers to a data format utilized for encapsulating and identifying application data exchanged between NFC-enabled devices.","An NFC device may refer to various electronic devices, such as mobile telephones, Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), personal computers (PCs), or any other suitable electronic device. An NFC tag may refer to a particular type of contactless card\/tag that is able to store NDEF-formatted data and is compatible with one of four currently implemented NFC Forum tag platforms, i.e., Type 1 tags, Type 2 tags, Type 3 tags, and Type 4 tags. The various tag types may differ in terms of memory size, communication speed, and\/or read\/write\/re-write capabilities. For example, a Type 1 tag may have a memory size of 96 bytes (expandable to 2 kbytes), read and re-write capabilities (and user-configurable to be read-only), and have a communication speed of 106 kbits\/s. Type 4 tags, in contrast, may have a variable memory size ranging from 4 kbytes to 32 kbytes, are pre-configured by the manufacturer to be read and re-writable or read-only, and communicate at speeds of up to 424 kbits\/s.","Application dat is typically stored inside an NFC tag by first encapsulating the application data into an NDEF message, and second, into the data structure specified by the NFC Forum Type tag platform. The NDEF message and platform identify the type of application data, e.g., Uniform Resource Locator (URL), v-Card, or image, etc., stored on the NFC tag. In operation, for example, a user may \u201ctouch\u201d his\/her mobile telephone to an object containing an NFC tag, such as a business card embedded with an NFC tag. The mobile telephone may then read the NFC tag and retrieve and save v-Card information stored on the NFC tag. Other currently-implemented uses for NFC tags include, e.g., retrieval of a web page link from the NFC tag, or establishing a Bluetooth connection to enable data transfer via a direct connection\/link. In this case, the Bluetooth link is established by bringing an NFC device in close proximity to another NFC device, and using NFC to pair the devices. However, larger amounts of data may not be transferred over an NFC connection since the NFC bandwidth is too slow for transferring large data amounts, hence the use of the Bluetooth connection.","Certain drawbacks arise in the context of NFC tags as currently\/conventionally implemented. For example, in a scenario where a URL is stored in an NFC tag, other additional connections are required, e.g., to access the Internet, or in the case of the aforementioned Bluetooth scenario, to another NFC device. Moreover, current implementations are not able to ensure that the desired content supposedly associated with the URL is actually still available. Further still, delays associated with such scenarios are simply too long for a positive user experience.","Additionally, NFC tags as currently implemented and\/or envisioned are not able to provide sensory feedback (e.g., sight, hearing, touch, smell, and taste) or \u201cfeelings\u201d associated with objects in a cost efficient and responsive manner. That is, current and conventional implementations of NFC tags fail to take advantage of the ever-improving audio speakers that are being implemented in electronic devices, haptic displays, and smell circuits. Furthermore, and in addition to the aforementioned lack of NFC bandwidth for large amounts of data, current NFC tags are too small to even store large audio clips or haptic touch maps.","Various aspects of examples of the invention are set out in the claims.","According to a first aspect, a method comprises detecting a memory tag embedded within an object; loading program code and at least one sensory parameter from the memory tag; and generating sensory feedback in accordance with the loaded program code and the at least one sensory parameter, wherein the sensory feedback reflects content of the object.","According to a second aspect, a computer-readable memory includes computer executable instructions, the computer executable instructions, which when executed by a processor, cause an apparatus to detect a memory tag embedded within an object; load program code and at least one sensory parameter from the memory tag; and generate sensory feedback in accordance with the loaded program code and the at least one sensory parameter, wherein the sensory feedback reflects content of the object.","According to a third aspect, an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory. The at least one memory includes computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform at least the following: detect a memory tag embedded within an object; load program code and at least one sensory parameter from the memory tag; and generate sensory feedback in accordance with the loaded program code and the at least one sensory parameter, wherein the sensory feedback reflects content of the object.","According to a fourth aspect, a method comprises receiving at least one of a user input parameter and a device input parameter; receiving at least one sensory feedback parameter; storing, in a compressed format, the at least one of the user input parameter and the device input parameter, and the at least one sensory feedback parameter in conjunction with a program code, the program code being configured to, upon execution, output sensory feedback reflective of content of an object.","According to a fifth aspect, a computer-readable memory includes computer executable instructions, the computer executable instructions, which when executed by a processor, cause an apparatus to receive at least one of a user input parameter and a device input parameter; receive at least one sensory feedback parameter; and store, in a compressed format, the at least one of the user input parameter and the device input parameter, and the at least one sensory feedback parameter in conjunction with a program code, the program code being configured to, upon execution, output sensory feedback reflective of content of an object.","According to a sixth aspect, an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory. The at least one memory includes computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform at least the following: receive at least one of a user input parameter and a device input parameter; receive at least one sensory feedback parameter; and store, in a compressed format, the at least one of the user input parameter and the device input parameter, and the at least one sensory feedback parameter in conjunction with a program code, the program code being configured to, upon execution, output sensory feedback reflective of content of an object.","Example embodiments and their potential advantages are understood by referring to  of the drawings.","Various embodiments are directed to creating \u201cfeelings\u201d from tangible objects in a responsive and cost efficient manner. In particular, NFC tags are embedded into tangible objects, e.g., Compact Discs (CDs), books, posters, etc., where the NFC tags include feeling\/sensory feedback parameters associated with the object in which the NFC tag is embedded. That is, NFC tags in accordance with various embodiments, are able to stimulate one or more senses, such as the human senses of sight, hearing, touch, smell, and taste. Thus, sensory feedback is provided via tangible objects, where only minimal cost (e.g., a few cents) is added to the production\/manufacture of such objects.","Although various embodiments may incorporate visual, audio, or haptic or tactile feedback technology that has already been developed, as well as smell circuits that are currently being developed, the various embodiments are not limited to these senses. That is, various embodiments contemplate incorporating any sense(s) that can be translated into data\/parameters that may be stored on an NFC tag, e.g., taste, balance and acceleration, temperature, pain, etc. It should also be noted that various embodiments are not limited to NFC tags, but any suitable contactless or other type of memory tag that may be used to provide sensory feedback.","As described previously, current\/conventional NFC tags lack the capacity necessary for storing larger audio clips or haptic touch maps. For example, a one minute MP3 compressed audio clip encoded at a 128 Kbit\/s bitrate results in a 960 kb file, while storing a static 8-bit haptic map with a WVGA resolution of 800\u00d7480 results in a 384 kb file. Additionally, data transfer times for large amounts of data using NFC technology may fall into the ten second or greater range.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","110","110","100","120","130","140","120","140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","220"]},"Different types of sensory feedback may be generated in accordance with various embodiments using input parameters along with, e.g., update intervals that can be adjusted or configured according to different needs. For example, it may be desired to convey a a sense of coldness in association with a particular object. In this case, haptics that convey a sense of temperature, such as \u201ccolder\u201d sounding music or sharper haptic feelings. In accordance with another embodiment, the NFC tag may be configured with olfactory feedback that is to be generated based on the time of day a user interacts with an object. That is, a book may be embedded with an NFC tag that stores data and parameters for generating an energizing audio and\/or scent in the morning, while in the evening, the more peaceful audio and smells may be generated.","Further still, sensors may be utilized in conjunction with various embodiments. In accordance with one embodiment, one or more acceleration sensors may sense motion associated with a particular object. Depending on whether the detected motion is fast or slow, appropriate sensory feedback, such as sound or smell may be generated. Another embodiment may result in the generation of louder audio during the day as opposed to softer audio at night. Still other embodiments may result in adjusting visual, audio, haptics, and smell feedback in accordance with the touching of a device screen, or adjusting microphone levels depending on a particular environment. Additionally, any sensory feedback may be adjusted in accordance with the capabilities of a particular user device. For example, a user device operating in an energy efficient mode may have haptics updated less frequently than in a user device operating at full power.","As alluded to previously, NFC tags are capable of storing URL such that upon detecting an NFC tag in an object, the user device retrieves the stored URL and presents it to the user. The user may then select the URL and begin web browsing. However, unlike conventional NFC tag implementations, various embodiments provide for the ability to also retrieve sensory feedback from the Web and provided to the user and\/or used in conjunction with other sensory feedback specified in the NFC tag as already described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","300","310","310"]},"Program parameters  may also be stored in\/received at the NFC tag . The program parameters  may include, e.g., sample parameters and patterns associated with sound feedback, haptic surface parameters\/maps associated with a haptics that are to be generated, and olfactory parameters for smell feedback. As illustrated in , input and program parameters  and , respectively, may be stored in\/received at the NFC tag . In turn, program code\/source code  utilizes the input and program parameters  and  to create output data , e.g., the desired sensory feedback, such as a particular sound(s), haptics, and\/or smell. The code format of the program code\/source code  may be a high level shading language, such as the OpenGL shader language referred to as GL Shader Language (GLSL) or kernel functions using, e.g., the Open Computing Language (OpenCL).","In contrast to conventional NFC tag implementations, the program source code and program parameters are stored in NFC tag using only a few kilobytes of data. To achieve this minimal data storage amount, the source code and parameters may be compressed using an appropriate file compression\/decompression software\/algorithm, such as, e.g., the GNU Project's GNU zip (gzip) program. Additionally, it should be noted that Javascript code is supported in NFC tags as a media type identifier.","Again, the program source code and program parameters are transferred from the NFC tag to the user device when the user touches the object embedded with the NFC tag or brings the user device in close proximity to the object. Upon the transfer of the program source code and parameters to the user device, the program source code may be compiled using any suitable application programming interfaces (APIs), preferably high performance APIs. For example, the OpenGL for Embedded Systems (ES) API, the OpenCL API, or the WebGL API may be used to compile the transferred program source code in the user device. Alternatively, and to execute programs without the need for compilation, embodiments may utilize interpreters for interpreted languages such as, e.g., Python or Javascript. It should be noted that with program source presentation, binary compatibility is not an issue. It should also be noted that implementation of various embodiments are not limited to merely those types of program source code and\/or APIs explicitly discussed herein, as any format (e.g., code and corresponding API\/interpreter\/etc.) may be utilized so long as the user device is capable of understanding the format, although naturally known code formats may be standardized to avoid any fragmentation.","In the user device, the program source code is executed using user data (e.g., touch position, time, etc.) alone or in conjunction with device data (e.g., time, tilt, temperature, acceleration sensor data, etc.) to generate corresponding ambient sounds, haptics, and smell based on the parameters stored in the NFC tag. As indicated previously, one or more NFC tags may be utilized in an object. Different NFC tags may produce different sensory feedback to a user to achieve, e.g., a desired mood, theme, or feeling associated with the object.","In accordance with embodiments where auditory feedback is to be generated, it should be noted that sound clips can be generated from, e.g., \u201csoftsynth\u201d programs. The NFC tag stores soft synthesizer code that outputs audio samples. For example, sounds and music can be created with an Attack-Decay-Sustain-Release (ADSR) synthesizer mixed with low\/high pass filters.","In embodiments where haptics are to be generated, a haptic map may be used to represent a surface \u201croughness\u201d of a display, i.e., a height of the surface at a sub-millimeter level. Haptics may also simulate other types of touch-related senses, e.g., temperature or vibration, without a need for physically touching or having a physical connection to an object. Haptic feedback is given to user when the user slides a finger on top of the display surface. Such haptic feedback may be generated using actuators, vibrators, electro-tactile haptic interfaces, or any other suitable interface provided or utilized by a user device.","As is the case with auditory feedback, the NFC tag stores program code which generates a haptic map from the aforementioned program parameters. Output from the haptic map code may be an 8-bit height field. illustrates an exemplary generated RGB color image, where the background  may be a first color, and the circles  may be a second color. illustrates a corresponding haptic map version of the color image illustrated in . That is, the background  shown in black may be assigned a value of 0 in an 8-bit range, representative of the lowest surface height. The white circles  may be assigned a value of 255 in the 8-bit range that represents the highest surface height of the display. Feedback is effectuated when a user's finger moves from the black background area  to the white circle  areas, where the user device's vibrator may be activated to indicate the change in surface height.","In the case of olfactory feedback, the NFC tag stores data and\/or parameters indicating that a particular smell should be emitted at, e.g., a certain time, in accordance with a particular temperature, based upon a user action, etc. Currently, manufacturers have been or have already developed mobile telephones that can emit one or more smells. For example, certain mobile telephones are able to be outfitted with a scented sheet that can be attached to the back panel of the mobile phone. In accordance with one embodiment, multiple scented sheets may be attached to a user device, each of which is embedded with an NFC tag. Based upon one or more input parameters, one of the multiple scented sheets may be triggered to release its scent. Other mobile telephones in development utilize a scent chip that relates smells relative to, e.g., a user's choice of text messages. In accordance with another embodiment, one or more NFC tags store data and\/or parameters that control when and\/or how the scent chip releases smells.","Various embodiments allow feelings to be experienced from objects in cost efficient way using one or more sensory feedback mechanisms. For example, any recognizable sense that can be translated or generated into mathematical\/synthetic content can be exploited by compressing the requisite data and storing such data on one or more memory tags, such as NFC tags. Once such data is retrieved from the one or more NFC tags, a user device may decompress the data and generate the sensory feedback, e.g., generating sound with varying quality, enabling parametric animation of feelings, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["10","10","10"]},"For exemplification, the system  shown in  includes a mobile telephone network  and the Internet . Connectivity to the Internet  may include, but is not limited to, long range wireless connections, short range wireless connections, and various wired connections including, but not limited to, telephone lines, cable lines, power lines, and the like.","The exemplary communication devices of the system  may include, but are not limited to, an electronic user device , in the form of a mobile telephone, a combination personal digital assistant (PDA) and mobile telephone , a PDA , an integrated messaging device (IMD) , a desktop computer , a notebook computer , etc. The communication devices may be stationary or mobile as when carried by an individual who is moving. The communication devices may also be located in a mode of transportation including, but not limited to, an automobile, a truck, a taxi, a bus, a train, a boat, an airplane, a bicycle, a motorcycle, etc. Some or all of the communication devices may send and receive calls and messages and communicate with service providers through a wireless connection  to a base station . The base station  may be connected to a network server  that allows communication between the mobile telephone network  and the Internet . The system  may include additional communication devices and communication devices of different types.","The communication devices may communicate using various transmission technologies including, but not limited to, Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA), Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP), Short Messaging Service (SMS), Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS), e-mail, Instant Messaging Service (IMS), Bluetooth, IEEE 802.11, etc. A communication device involved in implementing various embodiments of the present invention may communicate using various media including, but not limited to, radio, infrared, laser, cable connection, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIGS. 6 and 7","FIGS. 6 and 7"],"b":["12","12","30","32","34","36","38","40","42","44","46","48","52","54","56","58","56"]},"Various embodiments described herein are described in the general context of method steps or processes, which may be implemented in one embodiment by a computer program product, embodied in a computer-readable memory, including computer-executable instructions, such as program code, executed by computers in networked environments. A computer-readable memory may include removable and non-removable storage devices including, but not limited to, Read Only Memory (ROM), Random Access Memory (RAM), compact discs (CDs), digital versatile discs (DVD), etc. Generally, program modules may include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer-executable instructions, associated data structures, and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps or processes. Various embodiments may comprise a computer-readable medium including computer executable instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause an apparatus to perform the methods and processes described herein.","Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in software, hardware, application logic or a combination of software, hardware and application logic. The software, application logic and\/or hardware may reside on a client device, a server or a network component. If desired, part of the software, application logic and\/or hardware may reside on a client device, part of the software, application logic and\/or hardware may reside on a server, and part of the software, application logic and\/or hardware may reside on a network component. In an example embodiment, the application logic, software or an instruction set is maintained on any one of various conventional computer-readable media. In the context of this document, a \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d may be any media or means that can contain, store, communicate, propagate or transport the instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as a computer, with one example of a computer described and depicted in . A computer-readable medium may comprise a computer-readable storage medium that may be any media or means that can contain or store the instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as a computer. In one embodiment, the computer-readable storage medium is a non-transitory storage medium.","If desired, the different functions discussed herein may be performed in a different order and\/or concurrently with each other. Furthermore, if desired, one or more of the above-described functions may be optional or may be combined.","Although various aspects of the invention are set out in the independent claims, other aspects of the invention comprise other combinations of features from the described embodiments and\/or the dependent claims with the features of the independent claims, and not solely the combinations explicitly set out in the claims.","It is also noted herein that while the above describes example embodiments of the invention, these descriptions should not be viewed in a limiting sense. Rather, there are several variations and modifications which may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of example embodiments, reference is now made to the following descriptions taken in connection with the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 4","i":["a ","b "],"b":"4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
