---
title: Systems and methods for stabilizing laser frequency based on an isoclinic point in the absorption spectrum of a gas
abstract: Systems and methods for stabilizing laser frequency based on an isoclinic point of an atomic or molecular medium are provided herein. A system may include: a transmission cell containing a gas and configured to transmit light from the laser, the gas having an absorption spectrum with an isoclinic point; a photodiode generating an output based on an amplitude of transmitted laser light; and circuitry configured to tune the frequency of the laser to the isoclinic point of the absorption spectrum based on the output. The absorption spectrum may have first and second overlapping peaks respectively corresponding to first and second transitions of the gas, the isoclinic point being a saddle point between the first and second peaks. The first and second peaks may have substantially equal amplitude as one another and/or may broaden substantially equally as each other as a function of a physical parameter of the gas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442083&OS=08442083&RS=08442083
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08442083
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111025
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD","RELATED ART","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Overview","Isoclinic Points to Address Doppler Broadening","Isoclinic Points for Alkali Gases","Experiment","Alternative Embodiments"],"p":["This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/702,991, filed Feb. 9, 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8,050,301, the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.","This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N66001-09-C-2058 awarded by DARPA. The government has certain rights in the invention.","This application generally relates to systems and methods for stabilizing the frequency of a laser based on a feature in the absorption spectrum of a gas.","As is known to those of skill in the art, the frequency of light generated by a laser may change over time. For example, changes in temperature may change the cavity length of the laser, or variations in the driver current of diode lasers may cause the frequency to change rapidly. Because of such variations, it may be useful to stabilize the frequency in certain systems.","One system in which frequency stabilization may be useful is ultraminiature atomic physics (UAP), in which diode lasers are routinely used for spectroscopy and\/or optical pumping. The chip-scale atomic clock and the chip-scale atomic magnetometer are examples of UAP systems. Such systems are based on precision spectroscopy aimed at generating and accurately probing an atomic interaction over millimeter or smaller scales. One constraint for such systems, however, is that their overall size and power may be severely constrained. Moreover, the atomic phenomena may occur under physical conditions that may bring new and sometimes significant dimensions to the atomic physics as compared to macroscopic laboratory experiments. As such, the stability of the laser frequency in some circumstances may be critical, not only because variations in frequency yield variations in the spectroscopic signals of interest, but also because shifts in laser frequency may alter the atoms' energy level structure through the light-shift effect (e.g., the ac Stark shift).","In UAP, as well other types of laser-based systems, the laser frequency may be stabilized by locking the laser to an absorption line of an atomic gas.  schematically illustrates a prior art system  for stabilizing the frequency of a laser by locking the laser to an atomic absorption line. System  includes laser , gas cell , photodiode (PD) , and controller circuitry . Laser  generates light of frequency \u03c9, which is transmitted through gas cell . Gas cell  contains a gas having an absorption spectrum characterized by one or more peaks corresponding to atomic or molecular transitions. As the light from laser  transmits through cell , the light may interact with one or more transitions of the gas within cell . Specifically, if the frequency \u03c9of the laser light is resonant, or near-resonant, with a transition at frequency \u03c9, then that transition (which appears as a peak in the absorption spectrum of the gas) will at least partially absorb the laser light. Such an absorption reduces the irradiance of light transmitted through cell . Thus, the closer the laser frequency \u03c9is to the absorption peak \u03c9of the gas, the lower the transmitted irradiance. The photodiode  measures the irradiance of the transmitted light and generates an output that is fed into controller circuitry . Based on the output of photodiode , controller circuitry  determines whether laser frequency \u03c9is on-resonance with the transition (i.e., \u03c9is at the peak \u03c9of the absorption line for that transition), and if not, the circuitry sends an appropriate signal to laser  to cause the laser to bring \u03c9closer to resonance. Photodiode  then measures the irradiance of the new frequency \u03c9of laser light transmitted through cell , and the output is provided to circuitry , which may send further signals to laser  to bring \u03c9still closer to resonance, if required. In other words, a feedback loop may be used to lock laser  to a peak in the absorption spectrum of the gas within cell .","Specifically, the frequency difference between the laser frequency \u03c9and the frequency absorption peak \u03c9may be modulated, which causes modulation in the irradiance measured by photodiode . The output of the photodiode  provides a dispersive-shaped error signal: positive voltage when \u03c9>\u03c9, negative voltage when \u03c9<\u03c9, and zero voltage when \u03c9=\u03c9. The error signal is employed in a feedback loop to lock the laser frequency to a particular value, typically the frequency where the error signal is zero: \u03c9=\u03c9. The shape of the error signal is proportional to the derivative of the absorption spectrum, so that any physical changes leading to a change in the absorption frequency \u03c9will produce frequency shifts in the laser lock frequency \u03c9, as described in greater detail below.","As is familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art, circuitry  may include a lock-in amplifier that generates a sinusoidal signal, and a current controller that controls the driver current of laser . The lock-in amplifier provides the sinusoidal signal to the current controller, causing the current controller to sinusoidally vary the driver current of laser  about a central current selected to generate frequency \u03c9. This sinusoidal current variation causes the laser frequency to vary sinusoidally about frequency \u03c9, typically by a relatively small amount. The sinusoidal variation about frequency \u03c9causes the irradiance of light transmitted through cell  to similarly vary sinusoidally, as the variation periodically brings the frequency closer or further from the absorption peak \u03c9. Photodiode  records the sinusoidal variations in the irradiance of transmitted light, and the photodiode output is provided to the lock-in amplifier. The lock-in amplifier carries on-board circuitry that locks to the sinusoidally varying output signal. The current controller may then vary the central current so as to bring the central frequency \u03c9closer to the absorption peak \u03c9, which will be detected as a decreased signal at the photodiode . For further details, see the following references, the entire contents of each of which are incorporated by reference herein: Weel et al., Can. J. Phys. 80, 1449-1458 (2002); Furuta et al., Appl. Opt. 28(17), 3737-3743 (1989); Akiyama et al., U.S. Pat. No. 4,833,681; Telle, U.S. Pat. No. 5,553,087; and Tetu et al., IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 40(2), 191-195 (1991).","In one example, the gas within cell  is hydrogen cyanide (HCN), the absorption spectrum of which has a series of several spaced peaks between about 1525-1565 nm that correspond to rotational-vibrational transitions. Laser  may be locked to any one of these peaks. In another example, the gas within cell  is rubidium-87 (Rb), which may be successfully employed with a significantly lower vapor pressure (e.g., 2\u00d710torr) than hydrogen cyanide (e.g., about 10 torr), resulting in essentially collisionless conditions. As known to those of ordinary skill in the art, Rbhas four Delectronic transitions  illustrated in , corresponding to peaks A, B, C, and D in the atomic absorption spectrum  of Rbat 35\u00b0 C., illustrated in . Specifically, Rbhas four hyperfine electronic transitions: 5S(F=2) to 5P(F=1), corresponding to peak ; 5S(F=2) to 5S(F=2), corresponding to peak B; 5S(F=1) to 5P(F=1), corresponding to peak C; and 5S(F=1) to 5P(F=2), corresponding to peak . Note that although each of the transitions is characterized by a single frequency, the corresponding peak in the absorption spectrum is somewhat broadened because of Doppler broadening, leading to overlap between the peaks. The x-axis of , \u201claser detuning,\u201d refers to the frequency by which laser  may be detuned from the \u201ccenter of gravity\u201d of the optical spectrum (3.77\u00d710Hz) to match the absorption feature in the drawing.","As illustrated in , the laser is typically locked to frequency , which corresponds to the 5S(F=1) to 5P(F=2) electronic transition (the maximum of peak D). This frequency is typically selected because of the four illustrated absorption peaks A-D, peak D overlaps the least with an adjacent peak (peak C). However, as is familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art, the presence of overlapping peaks in the absorption spectrum \u201cpulls\u201d the laser frequency \u03c9 away from the true center of the desired peak. The breadth of each of peaks A-D may vary as a function of the gas temperature, due to Doppler broadening, and the relative amplitude of the peaks may also vary as a function of the gas temperature, because of the nonlinear nature of resonant absorption, e.g., because of Beer-Lambert exponential attenuation. As the breadths and\/or heights of the different peaks change, the amount of overlap\u2014and thus the amount of pulling\u2014may also increase or decrease with temperature, and as a consequence the peaks of the absorption lines may shift with the vapor's temperature. Note that according to the Beer-Lambert law, the transmitted irradiance I is equal to Ie, where N is the number density of atoms or molecules in the gas, \u03c3 is the absorption cross-section, and L is the gas length. The shape of the absorption spectrum (e.g., I versus the laser frequency \u03c9) will mimic the shape of the absorption cross section \u03c3 for optically thin gases, where N\u03c3L<<1. For optimized laser stabilization systems, where N\u03c3L\u02dc1, the detailed shape of the absorption spectrum may deviate from the absorption cross section \u03c3, and will depend on N. Specifically, the absorption spectrum will have a width that increases with N.","One way of reducing the change in the locking frequency is sub-Doppler spectroscopy. In such a technique, the apparent Doppler broadening is reduced by irradiating gas cell  with overlapping, counter-propagating laser beams. Each of the counter-propagating beams experiences an opposite Doppler shift as the other, canceling out the Doppler broadening effect. For further details, see Schawlow, Rev. Mod. Phys. 54(3), 697-707 (1982), the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. However, sub-Doppler spectroscopy may not be available to eliminate all sources of pulling. For example, it may be preferable to use linear absorption spectroscopy, instead of sub-Doppler spectroscopy, for UAP. Specifically, linear spectroscopy allows for simplicity (and thereby compactness) of design. Further, without the need of overlapped, counter-propagating beams these is less sensitivity to microphonics. Additionally, although sub-Doppler spectroscopy may reduce pulling due to Doppler broadening, it is ineffective to reduce pulling resulting from other types of broadening, such as pressure broadening.","Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for stabilizing laser frequency based on an isoclinic point in the absorption spectrum of a gas. An isoclinic point is defined to be \u201c[a] wavelength, wavenumber, or frequency at which the first derivative of an absorption spectrum of a sample does not change upon a chemical reaction or physical change of the sample.\u201d For many of the systems and methods disclosed herein, the isoclinic point is a point in the absorption spectrum of a gas that falls in between two overlapping absorption peaks of substantially equal amplitude, and which experience substantially the same broadening as a function of a physical parameter, e.g., as a function of temperature or pressure. Because the two peaks have substantially equal amplitude as one another, the isoclinic point is a saddle point (local minimum) in the region of overlap between the two peaks. As the peaks are evenly broadened due to a change in the physical parameter, the frequency of the isoclinic point does not significantly change, but instead remains at substantially constant frequency, independent of the physical parameter. As such, by locking the laser to the frequency of the isoclinic point, the laser is significantly less susceptible to frequency variations than if the laser were locked to an absorption peak, as was done in the prior art.","Under one aspect, a system for stabilizing the frequency of a tunable-frequency laser includes: a transmission cell containing a gas and configured to transmit light from the laser, the gas having an absorption spectrum with an isoclinic point; a photodiode configured to generate an output based on an irradiance of laser light transmitted through the cell; and circuitry configured to tune the frequency of the laser to the isoclinic point of the absorption spectrum based on the output.","In some embodiments, the absorption spectrum has first and second peaks respectively corresponding to first and second transitions of the gas, the first and second peaks overlapping with one another, the isoclinic point being a saddle point between the first and second peaks. The first and second peaks may have substantially equal amplitude as one another. The first and second peaks may broaden substantially equally with each other as a function of a physical parameter of the gas. The physical parameter may include temperature or pressure. The gas may include an atomic gas and the first and second transitions may be electronic transitions of atoms in the gas. The atomic gas may, for example, include an alkali selected from the group consisting of Rb, Li, Na, K, and K. In one embodiment, a fractional frequency of the isoclinic point varies by about 1.0\u00d710or less per degree Celsius.","In some embodiments, the circuitry includes a lock-in amplifier configured to receive the output of the photodiode and to generate an error signal based on the output; and a controller in operable communication with the laser and the lock-in amplifier, the controller configured to tune the frequency of the laser so as to minimize the error signal. The controller may tune the frequency of the laser by adjusting a driver current of the laser.","Under another aspect, a method of stabilizing the frequency of a tunable-frequency laser may include transmitting light from the laser through a cell containing a gas, the gas having an absorption spectrum with an isoclinic point; measuring an irradiance of the laser light transmitted through the cell; and based on the measured irradiance, tuning the frequency of the laser to the isoclinic point of the absorption spectrum.","Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for stabilizing laser frequency based on an isoclinic point in the absorption spectrum of a gas. As noted above, prior art systems for stabilizing laser frequency have typically been based on locking the laser frequency to an absorption peak of a gas. However, such a peak may be susceptible to pulling caused by lineshape overlap due to Doppler broadening, which can vary the frequency of the peak\u2014and the laser\u2014as a function of temperature. By comparison, the present inventors have recognized that the absorption spectra of some gases contain isoclinic points to which the laser can be locked, and that do not substantially change in frequency as a function of physical system parameters, such as temperature or pressure. As used herein, an isoclinic point is defined as \u201c[a] wavelength, wavenumber, or frequency at which the first derivative of an absorption spectrum of a sample does not change upon a chemical reaction or physical change of the sample.\u201d Such a definition is the same as that defined by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC), see 2ed. (the \u201cGold Book\u201d), Oxford (1997).","As described below, the inventors have discovered that isoclinic points exist for alkali atoms with nuclear spin I equal to 3\/2, and that the frequencies of these isoclinic points are effectively independent of gas temperature. That is, the derivative d \u03bd\/dT at the isoclinic point is spectroscopically insignificant, where \u03c5is the frequency at the isoclinic point and T is the gas temperature. The sensitivity of the alkali's isoclinic points to laser linewidth and optical pumping efficiency are also discussed further below. The practical conclusion is that isoclinic points in the spectra of alkali atoms may be useful reference frequencies for precision spectroscopy or laser-frequency stabilization, effectively eliminating slow temperature variations as a source of spectroscopic signal instability in UAP or other applications in which it is desirable to lock a laser to a frequency. It should be appreciated that although the discussion below is primarily directed to gases containing alkali atoms, that other types of atoms or molecules, including those in non-gas states, may also have absorption spectra with isoclinic points to which a laser can be locked. As such, the present invention applies to any system having an isoclinic point.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["30","32"],"sup":["87","7","23","39","41","2","2","2","2"],"sub":["1\/2 ","g","1\/2 ","e","1\/2 ","g","1\/2 ","e"]},"In one embodiment, the gas is Rb.  is a plot of the calculated absorption spectrum of Rbin the region of absorption peaks A and B at a temperature of 35\u00b0 C. Similar to  described above, the frequency of the center of gravity of  is set to zero. As described in greater detail below, peaks  and  of Rbcorrespond to 5S(F=2) to 5P(F=1) and the 5S(F=2) to 5P(F=2) transitions, overlap with one another due to Doppler broadening, have equal amplitude as one another, and broaden substantially equally as one another as a function of temperature, again due to Doppler broadening. As such, the sum  of the two peaks has an isoclinic point  that is positioned equidistant between peaks  and , and is a local minimum between the peaks. If the temperature of the gas fluctuates, then the breadth of peaks  and  may vary because of Doppler broadening. However, the lateral (frequency) position of isoclinic point  will remain substantially the same because the lateral frequency shift from each of the two peaks will cancel each other out. Instead, only a vertical shift in the position of isoclinic point  will occur. As the frequency of isoclinic point  is substantially insensitive to temperature, it can be used as a laser lock frequency to provide significantly greater stability than other points in the absorption spectrum. For example, as described above with respect to , if the maximum peak  were instead selected for the laser lock frequency, then if the temperature of the gas fluctuates, causing a change in the breadth and\/or amplitude of peaks  and , then the varying amount of overlap between peaks  and  would pull the laser lock frequency away from that maximum, causing instability in the laser lock frequency.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2B","FIG. 4","FIG. 2B"],"b":["51","52","42","42","42"],"u":["D","D","D"],"sup":["85 ","85"]},"The laser  and cell  may be arranged substantially as illustrated in . The laser may be any suitable laser, including a continuous-wave (CW) or pulsed laser, the frequency of which is tunable via any suitable mechanism. For example, the laser may be a diode laser, the frequency of which is tunable by adjusting the temperature of the diodes and\/or by adjusting the driver current applied to the diodes. A control module for making such adjustments may be internal to the laser, or may be external. In some embodiments, the frequency of the laser is tuned by adjusting the driver current applied to the diodes, using a suitable controller. Preferably, the laser is tunable through a variety of frequencies that correspond to one or more features of the absorption spectrum of the gas, including the isoclinic point. It should be noted that because different gases may have isoclinic points in widely different regions of the spectrum, the type of laser  and the type of gas used in cell  may be co-selected to respectively provide an output in the desired frequency range and an isoclinic point to which the laser frequency may be locked. In one embodiment, laser  is a vertical cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL), the frequency of which may be controllably selected by appropriately adjusting the temperature and\/or driver current of the laser.","Referring again to , the irradiance of laser light transmitted through the cell is then measured (). As described above with reference to , the transmitted irradiance depends, among other things, on the extent to which the laser light is absorbed by transitions of the gas. The transmitted irradiance can be measured, for example, using a suitable photodiode, such as photodiode (PD)  in .","Then, based on the measured irradiance, the frequency of the laser may be tuned to the isoclinic point in the absorption spectrum of the gas (). The general mechanism for such tuning may, for example, be similar to that described above with reference to , e.g., the frequency may be tuned using a feedback look that includes a lock-in amplifier and a current controller. However, it should be understood that while prior art systems have been directed to tuning the laser to the maximum of an absorption peak, the systems and methods provided herein instead tune the laser to a seemingly counterintuitive position in the absorption spectrum\u2014a local minimum, positioned between two equal-amplitude absorption peaks. As described in greater detail below, such a position is significantly less vulnerable to frequency changes as a function of physical parameters, such as temperature or pressure, than is the maximum of a peak.","A brief theoretical overview of the use of isoclinic points to address the problem of Doppler broadening will now be provided. Then, the specific case of isoclinic points in the alkali atoms, in particular Rb, is provided, including a consideration of the isoclinic point's sensitivity to the Rb\/Rbisotope ratio and laser linewidth. Finally, an experimental investigation of the RbDtransition is discussed, and the effects of optical pumping on the Disoclinic point described.","As noted above with respect to , peaks corresponding to electronic transitions may be Doppler broadened, leading to overlap that may cause a laser frequency to be pulled away from a desired frequency. To illustrate the problem more quantitatively, consider two neighboring Doppler-broadened transitions,  and , such as those illustrated in , where wis the Doppler-broadened full-width half-maximum (FWHM) of either peak  or . For a laser of frequency \u03c9tuned near these absorption lines, the irradiance I transmitted by a gas of length L can be expressed as:\n\n()=exp[\u2212(\u0394)+\u03c3(\u0394)]],\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere \u03c3(\u0394) is the cross section of the Jresonance and \u0394is the detuning from the true resonant frequency of the transition: \u0394=\u03c9\u2212\u03c9. Taking the derivative of Eq. (1) with respect to laser frequency \u03c9and setting this equal to zero, we find the extrema in the absorption spectrum:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"L"}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","L"]}}]},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mi":"NL"},{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","A"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","A"]}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","B"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","B"]}}}],"mo":"+"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"L"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","A"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","L"]}}]},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","B"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","L"]}}]}],"mo":"+"}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":"\u21d2","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","A"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","L"]}}]},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","B"]}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","L"]}}]}],"mo":"+"}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mn":"0."}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}}},"For the case of the extremum near absorption line , this yields the peak frequency of the  transition:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","pA"]},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","A"]},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","B"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03c3","pB"]},{"mi":["\u03c3","pA"]}]}}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u0394","B"]},{"mi":["w","D"]}],"mo":"\/"}},"mn":"2"}}}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\u2245","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","A"]},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03c9","A"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","B"]}],"mo":"-"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03c3","pB"]},{"mi":["\u03c3","pA"]}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03c9","A"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","B"]}],"mo":"-"}},"mo":"\/","msub":{"mi":["w","D"]}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}},"mo":","}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["pJ ","pA ","pA ","A ","1\/2 ","g","1\/2 ","e","o","AB ","A","B"],"sup":["th ","2","2","87"],"u":"A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b4\u03c9","pA"]},"mrow":{"mi":["\u03b4","T"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","B"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","AB"]}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","pA"]}}},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","AB"]},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["w","D"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["T","o"]}}}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"."}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u0394","AB"]},{"mi":["T","o"]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":{},"u":"A","figref":"FIG. 2B","sub":["pA","o"],"sup":"\u221211"},"Without wishing to be bound by any theory, the inventors believe that the temperature dependence indicated by Eq. (4) may arise from the fact that, near an absorption line's peak, one of the cross-section derivatives becomes effectively independent of temperature while the other retains its Doppler-broadening temperature sensitivity. Conversely, near the midpoint between the two resonances, both derivatives are temperature dependent. In particular, if \u03c9is defined to be the frequency corresponding to the local extremum near the midpoint, then for reasonably well-resolved, Doppler-broadened absorption lines,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","m"]},"mo":"\u2245","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03c9","A"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","B"]}],"mo":"+"},"mn":"2"}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mrow":{"mi":["p","A"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mi":["\u03c3","pB"]}],"mo":"-"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03c3","mrow":{"mi":["p","A"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},{"mi":["\u03c3","pB"]}],"mo":"+"}}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","AB"]},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["w","D"],"mn":"2"}},{"mrow":[{"mn":"4","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}},"msubsup":{"mi":["\u0394","AB"],"mn":"2"}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["w","D"],"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"-"}]},"mo":"."}}],"mo":"-"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["pA ","pB"]},"Notwithstanding the above discussion, for precision spectroscopy it is important to note that isoclinic points are idealizations. Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that no gas-phase atomic or molecular spectral feature will ever be insensitive to a \u201cphysical change of the sample\u201d to all orders. For example, in real systems, alkali isotopes often co-exist, and even in a vapor of \u201cpure\u201d Rbthere is always some fractional component of Rb(e.g., 10% residual Rb) with absorption lines ,  that overlap (albeit slightly) those of Rb, as illustrated in . This overlap implies that Eq. (1) may be augmented with a third absorption cross-section, complicating the simple argument leading to Eq. (5). Moreover, because single mode lasers may be dominated by white frequency fluctuations, producing lorentzian laser spectra with corresponding long tails, there also may be an interaction between Rbcontamination and laser linewidth. Finally, an alignment among the ground-state Zeeman sublevels produced by optical pumping may degrade the equality between the A and B cross-sections, thereby giving the isoclinic point an alternate path to temperature sensitivity. As noted above with respect to , the presence of residual Rbmay cause the frequency of the isoclinic point to vary with temperature; however the extent of such variation is expected to be significantly smaller than that for the maximum of an absorption peak. Issues associated with residual Rbare described in further detail below with reference to FIGS.  and A-B.","As may be derived from prior art atomic physics theory, the peak cross section for a Dtransition in the alkalies (i.e., excited and ground state electronic angular momenta, Jand J, respectively, equal to \u00bd) originating from the F=I+\u00bd ground-state hyperfine manifold (where I is the nucleus's spin angular momentum quantum number) may be expressed as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["F","g"]},{"mi":["F","e"]}],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","o"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":["J","g"]}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\u2329","\u232a"],"mrow":{"mover":[{"mi":"I","mo":"->"},{"mi":"S","mo":"->"}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}]}}},{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"I"},"mo":"+","mn":"3"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mn":"6","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"I"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"}}]},"mo":";"}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["F","e"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"I"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"}}]},"mo":";"}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["F","e"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"-","mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]}}},"mo":","}}]}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}},"br":{},"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00001","he":"3.56mm","wi":"1.02mm","file":"US08442083-20130514-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00002","he":"3.13mm","wi":"1.02mm","file":"US08442083-20130514-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}],"sub":["o ","1 ","o "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","o"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"\u03c0","mn":"2"},"msub":{"mi":["r","o"]},"mi":"fc"},{"msub":{"mi":["w","V"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mn":"1.065","mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"mn":"0.447","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["w","L"]},{"mi":["w","V"]}]}}},{"mn":"0.058","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["w","L"]},{"mi":["w","V"]}]}},"mn":"2"}}]}}}]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["o ","L","D","V "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["w","V"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["w","L"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msqrt":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":["w","L"],"mn":"2"},"mn":"4"},"mo":"+","msubsup":{"mi":["w","D"],"mn":"2"}}},"mo":"."}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}}},"Similarly, for the Dtransition originating from the F=I\u2212\u00bd hyperfine manifold,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["F","g"]},{"mi":["F","e"]}],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","o"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msub":{"mi":["J","g"]}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["\u2329","\u232a"],"mrow":{"mover":[{"mi":"I","mo":"->"},{"mi":"S","mo":"->"}],"mo":"\u00b7"}}},"mi":"I"}}},{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"I"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"}}]},"mo":";"}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["F","e"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"+","mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]}}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"I"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}},{"mn":"6","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"I"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"}}]},"mo":";"}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["F","e"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"-","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","2"]},"mo":"."}}}}]}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c3","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["F","g"]},{"mi":["F","e"]}],"mo":","}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","J"]}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["F","g"]},{"mi":["F","e"]}],"mo":","}}},{"mo":["{","}"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["w","L"]},{"mi":["w","V"]}]}}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mn":"4"},{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u0394","J"]},{"mi":["w","V"]}],"mo":"\/"}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["w","L"]},{"mi":["w","V"]}]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mrow":{"mn":"4","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u0394","J"]},{"mi":["w","V"]}],"mo":"\/"}},"mn":"2"}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["+","+"]}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":["1","62.5"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["w","L"]},{"mi":["w","V"]}]}}}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["w","L"]},{"mi":["w","V"]}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"0.4"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","J"]}},"mo":"\/","msub":{"mi":["w","V"]}}},{"mn":["9","4"],"mo":"\/"}]}}},"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mn":"10","mrow":{"mn":"10","mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":["\u0394","J"]}},"mo":"\/","msub":{"mi":["w","V"]}}},{"mn":["9","4"],"mo":"\/"}]}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["g","e "],"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2B"},"Note that the two cross sections originating from the F=I+\u00bd ground-state hyperfine manifold (expressed by Eq. (6)) will be equal when I=3\/2, corresponding to the stable alkali isotopes Li, Na, K, K, and Rb. Thus, there will be an isoclinic point midway between these transitions. Table I lists the Dtransition properties of various alkali isotopes that it is believed would show an isoclinic point at an extremum of the nS(F=2)\u2192nP(F=1,2) transitions. The temperatures were chosen to produce a vapor density of 10cm, and \u0394\u03bdcorresponds to the hyperfine splitting in the nP(first resonance) state. Note that only in the case of Rbwill the two Dtransitions be resolved relative to the Doppler width, which is given in the last column. Of these isotopes, as shown in Table I, Rbproduces the largest vapor densities at the lowest temperatures, which may be particularly useful for UAP applications. Conversely, the two peak cross sections originating from the F=I\u2212\u00bd ground-state hyperfine manifold (expressed by Eq. (9)) are only equal for the unphysical case of I=\u22125\/2. Thus, for the Dtransition of the alkalies, excitation from F=I\u2212\u00bd will not yield an isoclinic point at an extremum of the absorption cross section.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE I"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},{},"1Resonance \u03bb",{},"T,",{}]},{"entry":["Alkali","Abundance","D, nm","\u0394\u03bd, MHz","\u00b0 C.","\u0394\u03bd, MHz"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Li","93%","670.8","92","291","2872"]},{"entry":["Na","100%","589.6","189","114","1494"]},{"entry":["K","93%","769.9","58","53","806"]},{"entry":["K","7%","769.9","\u2014","53","786"]},{"entry":["Rb","28%","794.8","812","25","500"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Note that because of the relatively low natural abundance of Rb, it may be impracticable to completely isolate that isotope relative to Rb. As such, as illustrated in , the absorption spectrum  of Rbgas may contain a small amount of Rb, which exhibits absorption peaks  and . Because the Rbpeak  overlaps slightly with Rbpeak , variations in the amplitude or breadth of peak  as a function of temperature may cause the laser lock frequency to pull away from isoclinic point  as temperature varies. Using the above equations, the frequency of the local extremum midway between the 5S(F=2)\u21925P(F=1,2) absorption lines of Rb( and  in ), i.e., the isoclinic point, may be calculated as a function of the relative Rbconcentration. Briefly, the cross section for each transition may be computed at a given laser frequency, including the Rbcontribution, the cross-sections summed to evaluate the Beer's law attenuation of the laser, and finally the frequency determined near the midpoint where the derivative of the transmitted laser intensity is zero, i.e., near the isoclinic point. The extent to which the frequency of this local extremum is insensitive to vapor temperature is a measure of how well the extremum approximates an ideal isoclinic point. As used herein, the term \u201cisoclinic point\u201d may refer both to an ideal isoclinic point, and to a non-ideal isoclinic point of a real gas, such as Rb.","Defining \u03b7 as the fractional abundance of Rbin the vapor: \u03b7\u2245N(Rb)\/[N(Rb)+N(Rb)], the fractional-frequency change of the extremum (isoclinic point) is illustrated in  as a function of vapor temperature for \u03b7=0.01, 0.03, and 0.1. For comparative purposes, the fractional-frequency change of the local extremum corresponding to the peak of the 5S(F=1)\u21925P(F=2) absorption line (i.e., the maximum of peak  in ) is also illustrated. Of all the transitions in the RbDspectrum, peak  is the most well-isolated, having a relatively small overlap with peak . Note that, as illustrated in , even for a Rbabundance of 10%, the temperature sensitivity of the local extremum near the midpoint of the A-B transitions is two orders of magnitude smaller than that of the peak frequency associated with transition . Consequently, isotope ratio would appear to have little effect on the isoclinic nature of the midpoint extremum.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 7B","sup":"\u221212"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6","FIG. 8"],"b":["80","42","80","81","81","82","83","82","81","83","81","81","1","2","84","85","83","81","86","87","88","87","88","87","88","89","90","84","85","84","85","89","90","87","88","85","93","83","85"],"u":"D","sup":["87 ","85 ","87 ","85 ","87 ","85"],"sub":["L ","m ","m","m ","m ","L ","m ","m","2","L ","L "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9A"],"sub":["L ","2","1 "],"u":["D","D","C","D"],"b":["88","84","85","92","81","84","81","84","85","84","87","81","81"],"sup":"87 "},"The same experiment was repeated, but instead locking the laser frequency \u03c9to isoclinic point  illustrated in . The temperature of cell  was again increased to 43\u00b0 C. and allowed to cool to room temperature.  illustrates the results of this experiment, in which it can be seen that there is no perceptible change in the frequency of laser . Based on these results, the temperature sensitivity of isoclinic point  is estimated to be less than or equal to 25 kHz\/\u00b0 C., significantly lower that that for peak D. Note that the estimated temperature sensitivity of the isoclinic point is limited in this case by experimental error. Specifically, the calibrated output of LIA  merely provides an upper bound on the temperature sensitivity of any absorption feature in the DRbspectrum, including that of the isoclinic point . Calibration of the output of LIA  was obtained by tuning the laser frequency and measuring the output of LIA  under open-loop conditions. The temperature sensitivity of isoclinic point  may be more accurately characterized using additional experiments","For example, a similar experiment as above was used to more accurately determine the temperature sensitivity of both peak  and isoclinic point . The experiment used the same setup shown in , except cell  was replaced with a cell identical to cell . That is, both cells  and  contained Rbwith up to 1% residual Rb. The temperature of cell  was raised from 25\u00b0 C. to 31\u00b0 C. in 2\u00b0 C. steps, with enough time between temperature steps to equilibrate the temperature of cell . After the equilibration period, the difference between the error signals output from LIA  and LIA  was recorded by Labview DAQ module  for 100 seconds. This difference may be used as a measure of the frequency of laser  using calibrations obtained under open-loop conditions. This process was repeated for each temperature step. The results of this experiment are illustrated in , where the shift in the fractional frequency (y\u2245\u03b4\u03c9\/\u03c9) of laser  is shown as a function of temperature of cell . The slope of the data in  can be used to estimate the temperature sensitivity (\u03b4y\/\u03b4T). For the isoclinic point , the temperature sensitivity is estimated to be less than or equal to 1\u00d710\u00b0 C. For peak , the temperature sensitivity is estimated to be 4\u00d710\/\u00b0 C.","While preferred embodiments of the invention are described herein, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","sup":"87"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","sup":"87 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4","sup":"87"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2B","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sup":["87 ","85 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 6"],"sup":["85 ","87"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 2B","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 6","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 2B","FIG. 6","FIG. 8"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
