---
title: Methods and apparatus for searching with awareness of geography and languages
abstract: A system that automatically discerning the best combinations of a user query's geographical origin and language, retrieving and displaying search results accordingly. A record on the system are associated with a geographic location and a language. A record could be composed of two or more records, each of which associates with a location and a language. A record could be in rich media format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838632&OS=08838632&RS=08838632
owner: Namul Applications LLC
number: 08838632
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110705
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a Divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/403,157, filed Mar. 12, 2009, now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7,974,972 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/752,205 filed May 22, 2007, now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7,523,108 which claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60\/811,989 filed Jun. 7, 2006, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.","The field of the invention is searching technologies.","Globalization necessitates an audience of diverse languages and geographic locations. To satisfy a user's information need, relevance is necessarily a function of both language and location.","Consider a company whose potential clients are in different countries and regions, speaking difference languages. The company's web site contains pages that are relevant for different clients. For example, one page aims at potential English-speaking clients from Los Angeles (\u201cour sales office is a short distance from the Union Station . . . \u201d); another page aims at potential clients from Los Angeles speaking Spanish; still another page at clients from Los Angeles speaking Chinese; and still another page at clients from Shanghai speaking Chinese (a Chinese equivalent of the following message \u201cOur Shanghai office handles businesses throughout the Eastern China\u201d).","Now suppose all these web pages are searchable through a search engine.","A user query submitted to the search engine might originate from any part of the world, and the user composes the query in a language of her choice. If the search engine can automatically discern the origin, and the language, of the query, then the engine can match information in the most appropriate combination of location and language, and display accordingly. For example, a barber shop's information is typically relevant only to a user from the same or neighboring zip codes, a CPA from the same or neighboring cities, and a software developer maybe the same country, all preferentially speaking the same language as a potential client.","In searching, the state of the art is to use information contained in user's browser and the user query to detect the country (in prior art , for example), or the geographic location (in prior art , for example), or the preferred language (in prior art , for example). There is also prior art that uses information provided by user's browser to determine both the country and the language (in prior art , for example).","The state of the art is not satisfactory. For one reason, geographic locations are of different \u201cgranularities\u201d arranged in a hierarchical manner. It decidedly enhances relevance if the smallest possible granularity (many times much finer than \u201ccountry\u201d) is discerned, and used in searching. For example, the zip code 90024 corresponds to an area within the district of West Los Angeles, which in turn is within the city of Los Angeles, which in turn is part of the Greater Los Angeles, Southern California, California, America's West Coast, the United States of America, and North America. When the zip code 90024 is detected, search results associated with the zip code might be the most relevant, those associated with the district are less relevant, and in a decreasing order of relevance those associated with the city, the region, so on.","The state of the art is not satisfactory, for another reason, that sometimes there could be multiple detected locations. Further, sometimes there could be multiple detected languages. The state of the art uses only one pair of location and language, if that.","Further, the recent explosion of online videos for consumers, exemplified by contents on and visits to YouTube.com, leads to the contention that an explosion of online video for businesses is in the offing. Continuing the example above, suppose the company's web site features \u201cAbout Us\u201d videos that are dubbed in different languages aiming at different geographic locations. The need for a search engine to consider the best combinations of location and language is even more pronounced.","An observation from the example above is that many times a same piece of information exists in different languages for audiences in different locations, which calls for a means to identifying such relationships among records. Current state of the art does not speak to this.","The discussion above applies to records that comprise of Web pages, documents, catalogues, and advertisements.","This and all other extraneous materials discussed herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Where a definition or use of a term in an incorporated reference is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein, the definition of that term provider herein applies and the definition of that term in the reference does not apply.","What is still needed is methods that automatically discern geographic locations of the smallest possible granularity, determine the language or the languages of the user query, and evaluate the applicability of the geographic locations using at least the language or the languages. Once locations and languages are determined, best combinations of locations and language help retrieve and display records.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"1"},"A geographic origin is the geographic location from which the user is connected to a server in the contemplated system. A geographic location can be a zip code (or generally a postal code), an airport code, a city, a non-political region such as \u201cWest Los Angeles\u201d or \u201cNew England\u201d, a city, a county, metropolitan or micropolitan statistical areas as defined by the US Census (e.g., \u201cNorfolk-Virginia Beach-Newport News\u201d), a country, or a continent. In the discerning step, a smallest possible origin is sought out. For example, if \u201cLos Angeles\u201d can be discerning, it is preferred to \u201cCalifornia\u201d.","The discerning step utilizes information from user's connection, which could be via a Web browser, a cell phone, or a PDA, to name a few. The step also makes use of the user query, extracting information that is suggestive geographic locations. The result is a set of suspected origins to be further evaluated.","The use query is analyzed to find out the language, or sometimes languages, of the user query. The result is used in evaluating members of the set of suspected origins.","Once the origins and languages are determined, both help to guide retrieving of records. Records that match the origins and languages are preferred to those do not. When retrieved records contain at least two records each matching a different origin, with one embodiment, display is arranged so that records from two or more origins are concurrently displayed. Similarly, when retrieved records contain at least two records each matching a different language, with one embodiment, display is arranged so that records two or more languages are concurrently displayed.","Records are also partitioned so that different partitions are applied different functions in retrieving and displaying. For example, one partition of the records could comprise web pages from a company, and another partition could comprise advertisements in textual or rich media format from a same company.","Various objects, features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments of the invention, along with the accompanying drawings in which like numerals represent like components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["500","405","410","545","520"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 2-5","FIG. 6"],"b":["100","400","420","420","300","320","200","330","300","320","420","200","110"]},"Regarding  Records Repository, a record is associated with a geographic location, including but not limited to a postal code, a district, a non-political region, a city, a county, a metropolitan or micropolitan statistical areas for example, as defined by the US Census), a country, and a continent. For example, a post code could be \u201c90210\u201d or \u201c310013\u201d; a political district \u201cCentral, Hong Kong\u201d; a city \u201cLos Angeles\u201d or \u201cHong Kong\u201d; a county \u201cLos Angeles County\u201d; a non-political region \u201cWest Los Angeles\u201d or \u201cthe Greater Los Angeles\u201d or \u201cthe West Coast\u201d or \u201cNew England\u201d; a metropolitan or micropolitan statistical area \u201cNorfolk-Virginia Beach-Newport News\u201d; a country \u201cUnited States of America\u201d; a continent \u201cNorth America\u201d.","A record is also associated with at least one language. A language could be \u201cEnglish\u201d, \u201cAmerican English\u201d, \u201cBritish English\u201d, \u201cChinese\u201d, \u201cCantonese\u201d, \u201cChinese simplified\u201d, \u201cChinese traditional\u201d, or \u201cChinese Hong Kong\u201d. Further, a record comprises information in the form of text, or of rich media format (e.g. audio, video, image), or a combination.","Still further, a record could be a combination of other records. For example, a record labeled as \u201cRecord A\u201d could be about a company's general introduction, and is combined from three records, \u201cRecord A1\u201d, \u201cRecord A2\u201d, \u201cRecord A3\u201d, and \u201cRecord A4\u201d, where \u201cRecord A1\u201d is textual and associated with the geographical location \u201cChina mainland\u201d and the language \u201cChinese simplified\u201d, \u201cRecord A2\u201d is textual and associated with the geographical location \u201cCalifornia\u201d and the language \u201cUS English\u201d, \u201cRecord A3\u201d is a video with Chinese dubbing and associated with \u201cChina mainland\u201d and the language \u201cChinese simplified\u201d, and \u201cRecord A4\u201d is a video with English dubbing and associated with \u201cCalifornia\u201d and \u201cUS English\u201d.","Still further, records on  Records Repository are partitioned. For example, one partition of the records could comprise web pages from a company, and another partition could comprise advertisements in textual or rich media format from a same company.","Through out the discussion below, it is intended that a method applied to one partition might not be the same for another partition.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["500","509","405","410","502","504","506"]},"A user connection  preferably is from a computer (desktop, laptop, workstation, server, etc.), alternatively from a cell phone, or a PDA, or others. In prior art US 20040254932 A1, Gupta et al., Dec. 16, 2004, various such connections are disclosed in paragraph 0030.","In Step , different methods are applied to different connections, to name a few below.\n\n","In Step , the user query string is analyzed for information suggestive of geographical locations. Some of the methods are discussed below:\n\n","In Step , at least two sets of suspected origins are merged, and the goal is to find the set of \u201csmallest\u201d geographical locations, whose preferred definition is that the union of members covers the smallest possible geographical area. For example, given the following two sets: (i) {\u201cUnited States\u201d}, and (ii) {\u201cCalifornia\u201d, \u201cOregon\u201d, \u201cArizona\u201d}, the method finds the latter set. All suitable algorithms are contemplated, including but not limited to lookup tables, greedy search algorithms, and shortest path algorithms.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["520","405","410","523","525","527"]},"In Step , different methods are applied to different connections, to name a few below.\n\n","In Step  of detecting languages from the user query, some contemplated methods are listed below.\n\n","In Step , at least two sets of languages are merged into one set. The goal is to find a set of \u201cfinest\u201d languages. For example, given two sets, (i) {\u201cEnglish\u201d, \u201cChinese\u201d}; (ii) {\u201cAmerican English\u201d, \u201cChinese\u201d}, the former is found. All suitable algorithms are contemplated, including but not limited to lookup tables, greedy search algorithms, and shortest path algorithms. In step , the system derives at least one preferred language.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["540","529","509","545"]},"The system has knowledge on mapping from languages to geographical locations. One piece of knowledge could be (\u201cChinese simplified\u201d=>{(\u201cChina mainland\u201d, 0.9), (\u201cSingapore\u201d, 0.4), (\u201cChina Hong Kong\u201d, 0.1)}. This piece knowledge states that the language \u201cChinese simplified\u201d corresponds to three geographical locations each of which is associated with a confidence measure of 0.9, 0.4 or 0.1 respectively. Suppose there is a set of suspected geographical origins {\u201cChina mainland\u201d, \u201cChina Hong Kong\u201d, \u201cSingapore\u201d, \u201cTaiwan\u201d}, and a user query's language is identified as {\u201cChinese simplified\u201d}, then applying the above piece of knowledge to the set of origins could lead to the removal of the element \u201cTaiwan\u201d, and the remaining three elements are associated with confidence measures partially derided from the piece of knowledge.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["545","529","562","564","568"]},"In Step , general relationships among languages and locations are applies in order to evaluate combinations. Such relationships comprise commonly known language and location combinations that exist. For example, given the set of origins {\u201cLondon\u201d} and the languages {\u201cUS English\u201d, \u201cUK English\u201d}, then the combination of (\u201cLondon\u201d, \u201cUK English\u201d) is evaluated as a preferred one to (\u201cLondon\u201d, \u201cUS English\u201d). The system stores such relationships, with one embodiment in a lookup table.","In Step , non-general relationships among language and locations are applied. Some sets of such relationships are listed below.\n\n","Once the suspected origins, the languages, and the best combinations of the two, are derived, they are used in retrieving and displaying records.","As stated above, a record on  Record Repository has been associated with a geographic location and a language. The matching of a user's geographical origin and a record's geographical location is done at smallest geographical area possible. For example, if a set of origins is {\u201cCalifornia\u201d, \u201cArizona\u201d}, and a location is {\u201cLos Angeles\u201d}, then the matching is \u201cLos Angeles\u201d.","At Search Sub-system , the matching of a query's language and a record's language is at the finest possible. For example, if a query's language is \u201cChinese\u201d, and a record's language is \u201cChinese simplified\u201d, then the matching is \u201cChinese simplified\u201d. The Search Sub-system  retrieves those records whose geographical locations and languages match a user query with priority over those do not. Further, the best combinations  are applied in sorting the retrieved records. All suitable algorithms are contemplated, including but not limited to lookup tables, greedy search algorithms, and shortest path algorithms.","At Interface  where retrieved records are displayed, several methods are contemplated as below.\n\n","Thus, specific embodiments and applications of searching with awareness of locations and languages and related improvements have been disclosed. It should be apparent, however, to those skilled in the art that many more modifications besides those already described are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein. The inventive subject matter, therefore, is not to be restricted except in the spirit of the appended claims. Moreover, in interpreting both the specification and the claims, all terms should be interpreted in the broadest possible manner consistent with the context. In particular, the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d and \u201ccomprising\u201d should be interpreted as referring to elements, components, or steps in a non-exclusive manner, indicating that the referenced elements, components, or steps may be present, or utilized, or combined with other elements, components, or steps that are not expressly referenced. Where the specification claims refers to at least one of something selected from the group consisting of A, B, C . . . and N, the text should be interpreted as requiring only one element from the group, not A plus N, or B plus N, etc."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
