---
title: Compact handheld non-laser detector for greenhouse gasses
abstract: Techniques are disclosed relating to gas leak detection. The techniques can be deployed, for example, in compact, handheld portable devices usable for detecting leaks in space-confined applications. The devices generally include a non-laser light source and thermal imaging camera that allow for detection of a target gas (or gasses) that absorbs at least some of the light source's wavelengths of operation. The light source can be implemented, for example, with an incoherent infrared (IR) light source, such as a resonance lamp configured with a gas cell containing a volume of a gas that, when excited by electric discharge, emits a wavelength that is absorbed by the target gas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08134127&OS=08134127&RS=08134127
owner: Southwest Research Institute
number: 08134127
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110729
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/381,768, filed Mar. 16, 2009, and titled \u201cCompact Handheld Non-Laser Detector for Greenhouse Gasses\u201d which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The invention was made with United States Government support under contract DAAB07-03-D-B009 awarded by the U.S. Air Force, and the United States Government may have certain rights in this invention.","The invention relates to gas leak detection, and more particularly, to techniques that can be employed in compact, handheld devices for detecting leaks in relatively small spaces.","There is presently a great need to locate leaks of so-called \u201cgreenhouse\u201d gases such as sulfur hexafluoride (SF). As is generally known, higher concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere cause infrared (IR) radiation released from the earth to become trapped in the lower atmosphere. As a result of this trapped radiation, the lower atmosphere tends to warm, which in turn impacts the Earth's weather and climate. Other common greenhouse gasses generally caused by human activity include carbon dioxide (CO), methane (CH), chlorofluorocarbon (CFC), hydrofluorocarbon (HFC), and ozone (O).","In general, absorption techniques can be used to detect many such gases. However, there are a number of limitations associated with such conventional techniques. For instance, absorption techniques in the thermal IR range are not effective if the background temperature is similar to the temperature of the target gas to be detected, because there is almost no contrast between the background and the target gas. In addition, image contrast can be weak, caused by other factors, such as inhomogeneous illumination and weak absorption. Because of these problems, techniques to enhance the contrast have been proposed.","These conventional techniques generally increase the image contrast utilizing a laser illuminator. One such technique is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4,555,627, titled \u201cBackscatter Absorption Gas Imaging System,\u201d which describes absorption techniques to image hazardous gases. In particular, the disclosed technique uses a flying spot IR laser beam and video imaging system, and detects hazardous gases which are highly absorbed by the laser beam. Cameras based on similar techniques have been developed to detect SF(e.g. GasVue and GasVue II camera product lines). However, these cameras are large and bulky (typically shoulder mounted units that are coupled to power and cooling units via heavy cabling), and therefore are application limited. For instance, such techniques cannot be implemented inside confined spaces or otherwise close quarters, such as within the fuselage of an airplane or other vehicle that may be equipped with gas-containing gear (e.g., radar equipment).","There is a need, therefore, for gas leak detection techniques that can be deployed, for example, in compact, handheld devices usable for detecting leaks in space-confined applications.","One embodiment of the present invention provides a gas leak imaging system. The system includes a non-laser incoherent light source for providing a light beam having at least one wavelength that is absorbable by a target gas, and a thermal imaging camera having a field of view and for imaging absorption of the at least one wavelength by the target gas. In general, the word \u201clight\u201d is used herein to include any output wavelength, such as infrared. The system is contained in a handheld housing (e.g., hand-gun or telescope shaped housing or other form factor suitable for handheld operations). The target gas can be, for example, sulfur hexafluoride (SF), or any other detectable gas using the techniques described herein. The camera can be, for example, a longwave infrared camera. Other targets gasses and cameras will be apparent in light of this disclosure. In some cases, the light source may be further configured for expanding the light beam toward the field of view. In one specific case, the light source is a resonance lamp, including a cell that contains a volume of a gas (e.g., such as the target gas, or other gas or combination of gasses capable of emitting radiation that is in resonance with absorption lines of the target gas), an excitation coil wrapped with a number of turns around the cell, and an excitation source operatively coupled to the coil. In response to the excitation source energizing the coil, radiation is emitted from the cell that is in resonance with absorption lines of the target gas. In one specific such case, the resonance lamp is configured with a transmitting window for expanding the light beam toward the field of view, such that radiation emitted from the cell is transmitted by the transmitting window toward the field of view. The resonance lamp may further include a rear mirror for reflecting radiation within the cell toward the transmitting window. The transmitting window can be, for example, a germanium or zinc selenide diverging lens or flat window. In another such specific case, the volume of the target gas contained in the cell is the same as the target gas. The excitation source can be, for example, one of an RF oscillator or a pulse width modulation source or an RF waveguide excitation source. In another specific case, the non-laser incoherent light source is a modified laser. The laser can be modified, for instance, by replacing its output minor with a transmitting window for expanding the beam toward the field of view, and replacing its gaseous lasing medium with a gas capable of emitting radiation that is in resonance with absorption lines of the target gas. Thus, in one such example, the COof a COlaser could be replaced by SFor other suitable gas. Note that the replacement gas does not have to be the same as the target gas. Rather, the replacement gas can be any gas or combination of gasses which when excited emits a wavelength that is absorbed by the target gas.","Another embodiment of the present invention includes a gas leak imaging method. The method includes providing a light beam from a non-laser incoherent light source to a field of view, the light beam having at least one wavelength that is absorbable by a target gas. The method further includes expanding the light beam toward the field of view, and imaging absorption of the at least one wavelength by the target gas. The light source is contained in a handheld device (e.g., having a hand-gun or telescope shape, etc) that is capable of carrying out the method. In one such embodiment, the non-laser incoherent light source is a resonance lamp that includes a cell that contains a volume of a gas (e.g., target gas, or other gas or combination of gasses capable of emitting radiation that is in resonance with absorption lines of the target gas), an excitation coil wrapped with a number of turns around the cell, an excitation source operatively coupled to the coil, and a rear minor for reflecting radiation within the cell toward the transmitting window. In response to the excitation source energizing the coil, radiation is emitted from the cell that is in resonance with absorption lines of the target gas.","The features and advantages described herein are not all-inclusive and, in particular, many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings, specification, and claims. Moreover, it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes, and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.","Techniques are disclosed relating to gas leak detection. The techniques can be deployed, for example, in compact, handheld portable devices usable for detecting leaks in space-confined applications. The devices generally include a non-laser light source and thermal imaging camera that allow for detection of gas that absorbs at least some of their wavelengths of operation. The light source can be implemented, for example, with an incoherent infrared (IR) light source, such as a resonance lamp configured with a gas cell containing a volume of the target gas. The techniques are suitable for use, for instance, in detecting gas leaks within the fuselage of an airplane or other vehicle that may be equipped with gas-containing gear (e.g., radar equipment), which may be leaking. Other such confined-space applications will be apparent in light of this disclosure.","General Overview","Imaging the infrared absorption of gasses such as SFis generally known. However, as previously explained, such conventional detection techniques generally employ large units that are not suitable for space-confined applications. This longstanding design paradigm has generally not been challenged, as it is widely believed that gas leaks can be readily detected from a distance thereby allowing a nearby suitable and open space to be selected for the imaging and detection process to be carried out. Moreover, efforts to use smaller components (such as compact lasers) introduce a number of non-trivial problems.","For instance, conventional designs employ stabilized lasers which require cooling (e.g., water cooled lasers and air cooled lasers). Conventional cooling componentry tends to be bulky and heavy (e.g., cooling fans and\/or water), and ultimately limits the form factor of the overall system to a relatively large size. An unstabilized (uncooled) laser will eliminate the need for such bulky\/heavy cooling componentry associated with stabilized lasers, but is susceptible to wavelength hopping of the laser. In particular, an unstabilized laser may hop to a wavelength that is not absorbed by the target gas (e.g., SF, or other such greenhouse gas). The reason that the wavelengths hop around is because of thermal instabilities (given the lack of cooling). Another problem generally associated with using lasers in close quarters has to due with safety, and more specifically with the power density of the laser. For instance, there may be both a personnel hazard (e.g., eye safety) as well as a fire hazard.","Thus, and in accordance with one example embodiment of the present invention, a gas leak imaging system is provided that employs a relatively small non-laser light source that is not susceptible to wavelength hopping and\/or safety issues that might be associated with high power density laser light. The non-laser light source can be implemented, for example, with a resonance lamp or other suitable incoherent infrared (IR) light source. A transmitting window or lens can be provided on the output of the light source to expand the beam toward the field of view, and a thermal camera can be used to image the IR absorption of the target gas or gasses. The system is compact and can be implemented in a handheld unit (e.g., having a form factor similar to that of a hand-gun or telescope) that can be brought into small spaces and aimed at target areas to carryout inspection and leak detection. In some such embodiments, the light source can be implemented within the infrared camera. In a more general sense, the functional components making up the system can be integrated into a compact housing suitable for handheld applications or otherwise in close quarters.","By using an incoherent infrared light source to in place of laser light, the potential problems associated with lasers are avoided. Note that laser safety issues may not actually be serious issues (depending on laser power density, wavelength of operation, safety precautions taken, etc); however, there may be a perception of safety issues that are generally associated with laser light that is difficult to overcome, thereby impeding widespread usage of laser-based techniques. Therefore, embodiments of the present invention employ a non-laser IR light source capable of being used to image infrared-absorbing leaks.","System Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},"As can be seen, the system includes a thermal imaging camera  having a field of view (FOV) , and an incoherent IR light source . The system also includes a battery , which is connected to any components requiring power (e.g., camera , light source , and processor ). Battery  may also be operatively coupled to processor  for control purposes (e.g., power management scheme that is executed by processor ).","In operation, the gas leak imaging system can be used to detect gas leaks by directing a diverging beam of incoherent IR light from light source  toward the FOV of camera  and toward the background area  (which can be any area place leaks of the target gas might be). The IR light beam can be expanded by diverging optics included in the source . When the light beam is projected into the FOV , the infrared absorption of the leaking gas is imaged by the infrared camera  (e.g., ). The light source  can be, for example, a resonance lamp configured with a gas cell containing a volume of the target gas to be detected that can be excited using an electric discharge external to the cell containing the gas. The camera  can be, for example, a longwave infrared camera, thereby allowing the system to image the infrared absorption of a target gas absorbable within that range. In one such specific embodiment, the light source  is implemented with a resonance lamp configured with a gas cell containing a few Torr of SF, and the longwave IR camera  is implemented with a FLIR GasFindIR-LW, FLIR model 65HS (from FLIR Systems, Inc), or a Fluke model Ti55 (from Fluke Corporation). The light source  may include optics configured for the wavelength range of interest (e.g., 10.5 and 10.7 microns), and in one example case includes transmitting window in the form of a zinc selenide (ZnSe) diverging lens or flat window. Thus, the system can be implemented with a small non-laser IR light source and an IR camera. Other such suitable compact incoherent IR light sources and thermal imaging cameras can be used as well, depending on factors such as target gas to be detected. The battery  can be implemented with conventional technology (e.g., rechargeable NiMH or Li-ion batteries), and is capable of providing sufficient power to the system. In some embodiments, battery  may be distributed, wherein individual components making up the system each have their own battery. Conventional power conditioning techniques may also be employed, if so desired (e.g., regulation, filtering, etc). An AC adapter may also be provided for charging the battery  (or batteries). Numerous suitable variations and alternative power schemes can be used here.","Thus, a compact portable gas leak imaging system is provided. Any number of gas leaks can be detected depending on the system configuration. In one specific example embodiment, SFleaks can be detected on the order of 1 sccm (standard cubic centimeter per minute) or less using a resonance lamp having a SFgas cell and a zinc selenide transmitting window (for light source ), and a FLIR model 65 HS longwave infrared camera (for camera ). The entire system weighs about 10 lbs or less and can be easily handheld. Example form factors for the housing containing the system include a hand-gun or telescope shaped housing, although any number of suitable form factors can be used. Thus, handheld as used herein means that the system (or device, apparatus, etc) is small and light enough to be operated while an appropriate user holds it in one or both hands. An appropriate user may be, for instance, a man or woman capable of holding about 10 lbs in one or both hands (e.g., while arms are extended in front of the user or while the user's elbows are supported on a table or other suitable surface). Note that the system may optionally include, for example, a lanyard (cord worn around the neck and operatively coupled to the system) so that the system can hang from the lanyard during periods of non-use, and even while being used or otherwise manipulated by the user's hand or hands. A small tripod may also be used to support such a compact system, if so desired. The system can be operated, for example, to view targets in close proximity (e.g., less than a meter away), although viewing target areas at greater distances away (e.g., three meters or more) is possible as well using the appropriate optics, if needed and as will be apparent in light of this disclosure. In one specific such embodiment, the target wavelength operation is near 10.551 microns.","The system shown in also includes an optional processor , which can be used to enable or otherwise select certain modes of operation (e.g., by enabling light source  and\/or camera ), and\/or implement other functionality such as power conservation schemes for conserving power and report generation. The processor  may be implemented, for example, with a conventional processing environment such as a programmable gate array (e.g., ASIC or FPGA) or a microcontroller having a number of input\/output ports and executable routines for carrying out desired functionality. The processor  may operate in conjunction with a user interface that allows the user to configure a desired mode of operation. This interface can be, for example, hardware-based (e.g., toggle switches that can be set to enable\/disable modes of operation) or software-based (e.g., graphical user interface that can be manipulated to enable\/disable modes of operation). In one particular embodiment, the processor  responds to user input to activate the detection system (e.g., by enabling the light source  and\/or camera ). In addition, should the detection system remain dormant (unused) for a period of time, the processor  may be configured to implement a power conservation scheme, where light source  and camera  are disabled to a low-power (or no-power) consumption mode. Such conservation schemes will help preserve the life of battery . Numerous other such configurations and functions for processor  will be apparent in light of this disclosure.","Incoherent IR Light Source","The general concept of resonance lamps has been known for a long time. However, such lamps have not been used in the context of gas leak detection. is an example incoherent infrared light source  of the system shown in , configured as a resonance lamp in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As can be seen, the light source  includes a glass vacuum cell  that contains a gas , and optionally contains a buffer gas . The cell  is wrapped with a number of turns (e.g., 2 to 6 turns) of an excitation coil  (e.g., heavy wire), which is driven by an excitation source .","In operation, the gas  within cell  is heated by energizing the excitation coil  (with source ) so that enough of the gas  (typically millitorr) is vaporized in the glass cell  (or is already a vapor, as is the case with SFat room temperature). Gas  can be, for example, the same as the target gas. One advantage of such an arrangement is that the radiation emitted from the excited gas  is in resonance with absorption lines of the target gas. In other embodiments, gas  is not the target gas, but is any other gas or combination of gasses that, when excited by electric discharge, emits a wavelength that is absorbed by the target gas. In any such cases, the emitted radiation can be used to effectively illuminate a gas leak that includes the target gas, by way of imaging the absorption of emitted radiation by the gas leak. In addition, note that no tuning is needed, since many of the emission lines are in resonance with the absorption lines (assuming most of the gas is in the ground state). In some cases, further note that the temperature of the gas may slightly influence absorption. Conventional temperature control and management techniques can be used, if so desired. In any case, the radiation emitted from the cell  is transmitted by transmitting window  toward the FOV . The optional rear minor  can be used to reflect radiation within the cell  toward the transmitting window , so as to further optimize emission from the cell .","In one specific embodiment, the cell  contains SF(e.g., a few Torr). An optional inert buffer gas  may also be used (e.g., at a few Torr pressure), to help maintain a stable discharge. Neon or argon are examples of buffer gas . The excitation source  can be implemented, for example, with a 27-MHz RF oscillator, a 15-KHz pulse width modulation source, a Tesla coil excitation scheme, or other such suitable means for providing an electric discharge external to the cell  containing the gas  (and possibly gas ). Since the emission lines of interest in this example embodiment are in the infrared region, an infrared transmitting window  is provided. This transmitting window  can be implemented, for instance, as a diverging lens or flat window made of germanium (Ge) or zinc selenide (ZnSe) or other optically suitable materials.","In one such example embodiment, the light source  is implemented by modifying a small COlaser (e.g., an unstabilized RF excited nominal 10.6-micron COlaser, such as the Lasy-3 laser from Access Laser Company). In particular, the laser can be modified by replacing the COwith SF, and replacing the output mirror with a Ge or ZnSe transmitting window . Note that this modified version would no longer be a laser, but would now be an incoherent IR source. An advantage would be that most all of the emission lines of the light source  would be absorbed by the leaking SFgas (within the FOV ), and thus readily visible with the longwave thermal camera . This resonant lamp would be small and lightweight, estimated to be less than 4 lbs. As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure, the techniques described herein can be used with other gasses as well. Other such modification schemes will be apparent in light of this disclosure, wherein a laser source is modified by replacing its output mirror with a transmitting window for expanding the beam toward the FOV , and by replacing its gaseous lasing medium with the target gas (or some other appropriate gas or combination of gasses that, when excited by electric discharge, emits a wavelength that is absorbed by the target gas).","Other combinations of gases and excitation sources are possible, as will be apparent in light of this disclosure. For example, a metal gas container may be used with a RF waveguide excitation source. Any gas or combination of gases can be used in the container, so long as the excited gas in the container (whether the container is glass, metal, or other suitable material) emits radiation that is absorbed by the target gas. In some cases, note that the contained gas of the non-laser incoherent source may be different from the target gas. For instance, there may be cases where using the target gas in the cell is not the best choice, because of the various wavelengths that get excited by the various kinds of discharge (e.g., accidental resonances).","Handheld System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIGS. 2","FIG. 1"],"i":["a","b","c ","a"],"b":["2","2","200","200","203","205","201","200","211","105","211","200","211","200"]},"For instance, in one such example embodiment, when trigger  is pressed, an enable signal is provided directly to the light source  and camera  (and to any other supporting circuitry that needs to be enabled), so that leaks can be detected as described herein. In other cases, depressing the trigger  can be used to activate the optional processor , which then in turn enables the various components of the detection system to operate for leak detection purposes.","In any such cases, when the trigger  is pressed, a diverging beam of incoherent IR radiation from light source  passes through the aperture  to the target area within the FOV of camera . Should the target gas be present, that gas will absorb radiation of the non-coherent diverging IR beam, thereby allowing the thermal camera  to image the gas leak. The gas leak will then appear on the camera monitor  (which may be internal or external to camera ). As can be seen in , the various components of the detection system can be integrated into the handheld gun-like housing. Any number of suitable component layouts can be used, depending on factors such as included functionality and number of options employed as well as the housing form factor and amount of available space therein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIGS. 3","FIG. 1"],"i":["a","b","c ","a","a"],"b":["3","3","300","300","309","309","301","309","300","311","105","311","300","311","300"]},"For instance, in one such example embodiment, when switch  is pressed or otherwise turned on, an enable signal is provided directly to the light source  and camera  (and to any other supporting circuitry that needs to be enabled), so that leaks can be detected as described herein. In other cases, depressing the switch  can be used to activate the optional processor , which then in turn enables the various components of the detection system to operate for leak detection purposes. Note that the position of switch  can be moved to the side of the tube  (e.g., within the grip section ) for convenient access by user.","In any such cases, when the switch  is activated, a diverging beam of incoherent IR radiation from light source  passes through the aperture  to the target area within the FOV of camera . Should the target gas be present, that gas will absorb radiation of the non-coherent diverging IR beam, thereby allowing the thermal camera  to image the gas leak. The gas leak will then appear on the camera monitor  (which may be internal or external to camera ). As can be seen in , the various components of the detection system can be integrated into the handheld tubular housing . Any number of suitable component layouts can be used, depending on factors such as included functionality and number of options employed as well as the housing form factor and amount of available space therein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"i":"a","b":["209","101","209","313"]},"The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by the claims appended hereto."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["b ","a"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["b ","a. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"i":["c ","a"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["b ","a. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["c ","a"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"i":"a"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
