---
title: Methods, apparatuses and computer program products for provisioning applications to in vehicle infotainment systems with secured access
abstract: An apparatus for providing one or more applications to an IVI client device(s) may include a processor and memory storing executable computer code causing the apparatus to at least perform operations including providing an application(s) and associated data to a device in response to receipt of an indication of a selection associated with the application(s). The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to enable the application(s) to access requested data via a plurality of application programming interfaces during execution of the application. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to provide the requested data to the application in response to receipt of a message(s) generated by a first application programming interface of the interfaces that received a request for the requested data from a second application programming interface of the interfaces. Corresponding methods and computer program products are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08621483&OS=08621483&RS=08621483
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08621483
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20110620
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["An example embodiment of the present invention relates generally to wireless communication technology and more particularly, relates to an apparatus, method and a computer program product for facilitating an efficient and reliable mechanism of providing one or more applications to an in vehicle infotainment (IVI) system of one or more vehicles.","The modern communications era has brought about a tremendous expansion of wireline and wireless networks. Computer networks, television networks, and telephony networks are experiencing an unprecedented technological expansion, fueled by consumer demand. Wireless and mobile networking technologies have addressed related consumer demands, while providing more flexibility and immediacy of information transfer.","Current and future networking technologies continue to facilitate ease of information transfer and convenience to users. Due to the now ubiquitous nature of electronic communication devices, people of all ages and education levels are utilizing electronic devices to communicate with other individuals or contacts, receive services and\/or share information, media and other content. One area in which there is a demand to increase ease of information transfer relates to services for providing applications to IVI systems of vehicles.","Currently, in the Terminal mode (a new smartphone to car interface developed by Car Connectivity Consortium) an IVI system may utilize Virtual Network Computing (VNC) for replicating a user interface of a mobile phone to a display provided by a vehicle to enable users to utilize the latest or current applications provided by the mobile phone with a vehicle's (for example, an old car) IVI system. When using the VNC connection, the frame rate of an application may be limited by the bandwidth of an underlying network connection between the mobile phone and the IVI system. As such, it may be difficult to support applications that may require high frame rates such as, for example, videos, games, and user interfaces.","One challenge in executing applications downloaded from a mobile device to an IVI system may be the lack of a device application programming interface (API) provided by the IVI system. A device API may refer to a JavaScript API provided to web (e.g., HTML) applications for accessing data from a mobile phone where the application may be running. An example of device APIs may be associated with contacts, calendar, GPS location, etc. Since new device APIs are currently being developed every year, an IVI system developed years ago (for example, in older vehicles) may not have all device APIs necessary to execute an application downloaded from a mobile phone, which tends to support the latest or most current APIs available. Even if a corresponding device API is available via an IVI system, the device API may not be particularly useful for the application. For example, a calendar device API provided by an IVI system may not include a most recent schedule of a user, even though a mobile phone of the user may have a calendar with the user's most recent schedule. However, the user may desire to be able to access his\/her most recent schedule even if the application (e.g., a calendar application) is executed in the IVI system.","As a solution to this problem, a current mechanism for an IVI system to obtain device data from a mobile phone using a web interface may be dynamic translation of JavaScript code by replacing a caller of a device API into another code which may fetch necessary data from the mobile phone remotely. However, such a translation may take a long time depending on the amount of code being transmitted and translated. Another problem of current mechanisms for providing device data of a mobile device to an IVI system may involve lack of protection of a user's data. For example, sensitive data such as a user's calendar, contacts, and location may need to be protected to prevent malicious software running in an IVI system or other devices in the same network from accessing such data.","One solution to this issue may be to request a user to enter a password to access sensitive data, but this approach may be unrealistic for usage in vehicles. For example, when a vehicle is being driven by a user, it may be difficult and undesirable for the user to enter a password to access sensitive information. As such, a better mechanism for protecting sensitive data may be needed.","Another problem that may not be addressed by existing mechanisms of providing applications to IVI systems relates to driver distraction rules\/regulations. Currently, existing mechanisms may not adequately provide information indicating whether an application being sent to an IVI system meets driver distraction rules\/regulations and whether one or more functions of the application may be allowed while driving. As such, lack of such information related to driver distraction rules\/regulations may require IVI systems to allow downloaded applications only when a vehicle is completely stopped. However, this may not be the most efficient use of the IVI system and a user may become dissatisfied at being unable to access desired applications while in transit.","In view of the foregoing drawbacks, it may be desirable to provide a more efficient and reliable mechanism of enabling provision of one or more applications to an in vehicle infotainment system.","A method, apparatus and computer program product are therefore provided that may enable provision of one or more applications to an IVI client device in an efficient and reliable manner. In this regard, an example embodiment may enable applications on a mobile device to be provided in a secure manner to an IVI client device that may not initially have a most recent device API for accessing data associated with the applications.","An example embodiment may also enable an IVI client device to obtain information to decide whether a received application(s) is suitable for safe driving or not. An example embodiment may include a permission\/capability check for data access to prevent disallowed data access without a user's prior approval.","In addition, an example embodiment may protect private data of a user from malicious applications (e.g., malware). For example, by performing a device discovery and authentication mechanism to verify that a server and a browser being implemented in a communication device and an IVI client device, respectively are authentic and trustworthy an example embodiment may prevent malware in either device (e.g., the communication device, the IVI client device) from faking as an original application since such faking, if unchecked, may enable execution of a harmful application while a user is driving a vehicle or may result in undesirable retrieval of private data of a user.","In one example embodiment, a method for providing one or more applications to one or more IVI client devices is provided. The method may include enabling provision of at least one application and associated data to a device in response to receipt of an indication of a selection associated with the application. The method may further include enabling the application to access requested data via a plurality of application programming interfaces during execution of the application. The method may further include enabling provision of the requested data to the application in response to receipt of at least one message. The message may be generated by a first application programming interface that received a request for the requested data from a second application programming interface.","In another example embodiment, an apparatus for providing one or more applications to one or more IVI client devices is provided. The apparatus may include a processor and memory including computer program code. The memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the processor, cause the apparatus to at least perform operations including enabling provision of at least one application and associated data to a device in response to receipt of an indication of a selection associated with the application. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to enable the application to access requested data via a plurality of application programming interfaces during execution of the application. The computer program code may further cause the apparatus to enable provision of the requested data to the application in response to receipt of at least one message. The message may be generated by a first application programming interface that received a request for the requested data from a second application programming interface.","In another example embodiment, a computer program product for providing one or more applications to one or more IVI client devices is provided. The computer program product includes at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable program code portions stored therein. The computer-executable program code instructions may include program code instructions configured to enable provision of at least one application and associated data to a device in response to receipt of an indication of a selection associated with the application. The program code instructions may also be configured to enable the application to access requested data via a plurality of application programming interfaces during execution of the application. The program code instructions may also be configured to enable provision of the requested data to the application in response to receipt of at least one message. The message may be generated by a first application programming interface that received a request for the requested data from a second application programming interface.","An example embodiment of the invention may provide a better user experience since a user may be able to provide one or more applications on a communication device to an IVI client device of a vehicle in an efficient and reliable manner. As a result, device users may enjoy improved capabilities with respect to applications and services accessible via communication devices.","Some embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, various embodiments of the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. As used herein, the terms \u201cdata,\u201d \u201ccontent,\u201d \u201cinformation\u201d and similar terms may be used interchangeably to refer to data capable of being transmitted, received and\/or stored in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Thus, use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.","Additionally, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 refers to (a) hardware-only circuit implementations (e.g., implementations in analog circuitry and\/or digital circuitry); (b) combinations of circuits and computer program product(s) comprising software and\/or firmware instructions stored on one or more computer readable memories that work together to cause an apparatus to perform one or more functions described herein; and (c) circuits, such as, for example, a microprocessor(s) or a portion of a microprocessor(s), that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present. This definition of \u2018circuitry\u2019 applies to all uses of this term herein, including in any claims. As a further example, as used herein, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 also includes an implementation comprising one or more processors and\/or portion(s) thereof and accompanying software and\/or firmware. As another example, the term \u2018circuitry\u2019 as used herein also includes, for example, a baseband integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in a server, a cellular network device, other network device, and\/or other computing device.","As defined herein a \u201ccomputer-readable storage medium,\u201d which refers to a non-transitory, physical storage medium (e.g., volatile or non-volatile memory device), can be differentiated from a \u201ccomputer-readable transmission medium,\u201d which refers to an electromagnetic signal.","As referred to herein a device API(s) (also referred to herein as remote device API) may denote an application programming interface corresponding to a set of one or more rules and specifications that applications may utilize to communicate with each other. In this regard, a device API may serve as an interface between corresponding applications, software programs and the like and may facilitate interaction between the applications. Additionally, a device API(s) as referred to herein may serve to define vocabularies or terminologies and resource request conventions (e.g., function-calls) for corresponding applications. Moreover, a device API(s) as referred to herein may include data associated with specifications for routines, data structures, object classes, protocols and the like that may be used to communicate between a corresponding application(s) and the corresponding device API.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","10","20","30","25","10","20","25"]},"The network  may include a collection of various different nodes (of which the second and third communication devices  and  may be examples), devices or functions that may be in communication with each other via corresponding wired and\/or wireless interfaces. As such, the illustration of  should be understood to be an example of a broad view of certain elements of the system and not an all inclusive or detailed view of the system or the network . According to some example embodiments the network  may be capable of supporting communication in accordance with any one or more of a number of First-Generation (1G), Second-Generation (2G), 2.5G, Third-Generation (3G), 3.5G, 3.9G, Fourth-Generation (4G) mobile communication protocols, Long Term Evolution (LTE) or Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN), Self Optimizing\/Organizing Network (SON) intra-LTE, inter-Radio Access Technology (RAT) Network and\/or the like. According to some example embodiments, the network  may be a point-to-point (P2P) network.","One or more communication terminals such as the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be in communication with each other via the network  and each may include an antenna or antennas for transmitting signals to and for receiving signals from one or more base sites. The base sites could be, for example one or more base stations (BS) that is a part of one or more cellular or mobile networks or one or more access points (APs) that may be coupled to a data network, such as a Local Area Network (LAN), Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), a Wi-Fi Network, a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), and\/or a Wide Area Network (WAN), such as the Internet. In turn, other devices such as processing elements (for example, personal computers, server computers or the like) may be coupled to the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  via the network . By directly or indirectly connecting the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  (and\/or other devices) to the network , the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be enabled to communicate with the other devices or each other. For example, the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  as well as other devices may communicate according to numerous communication protocols including Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and\/or the like, to thereby carry out various communication or other functions of the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and , respectively.","Furthermore the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may communicate in accordance with, for example, Radio Frequency (RF), Cellular, Near Field Communication (NFC), Bluetooth (BT), Infrared (IR) or any of a number of different wireline or wireless communication techniques, including Local Area Network (LAN), Wireless LAN (WLAN), Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Ultra-Wide Band (UWB), Wibree techniques and\/or the like. As such, the mobile terminal  and the second and third communication devices  and  may be enabled to communicate with the network  and each other by any of numerous different access mechanisms. For example, mobile access mechanisms such as Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (W-CDMA), CDMA2000, Global System for Mobile communications (GSM), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) and\/or the like may be supported as well as wireless access mechanisms such as WLAN, WiMAX, and\/or the like and fixed access mechanisms such as Digital Subscriber Line (DSL), cable modems, Ethernet and\/or the like.","According to some example embodiments, the first communication device (for example, the mobile terminal ) may be a mobile communication device such as, for example, a wireless telephone or other devices such as a personal digital assistant (PDA), mobile computing device, camera, video recorder, audio\/video player, positioning device, game device, television device, radio device, or various other like devices or combinations thereof. The second communication device  and the third communication device  may be mobile or fixed communication devices. However, in one example, the second communication device  and the third communication device  may be servers, remote computers or terminals such as personal computers (PCs) or laptop computers.","According to some example embodiments, the network  may be an ad hoc or distributed network arranged to be a smart space. Thus, devices may enter and\/or leave the network  and the devices of the network  may be capable of adjusting operations based on the entrance and\/or exit of other devices to account for the addition or subtraction of respective devices or nodes and their corresponding capabilities.","According to some example embodiments, the mobile terminal as well as the second and third communication devices  and  may employ an apparatus (for example, apparatus of ) capable of functioning according to example embodiments of the invention. In some example embodiments, the second and third communication devices may, but need not, be IVI client devices. The IVI client devices may be embodied within respective vehicles.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["50","50","10","20","25","50","30","50","10"]},"Referring now to , the apparatus  may include or otherwise be in communication with a processor , a user interface , a communication interface , a memory device , a display , an optional server module  (also referred to herein as server ), a browser , an applications manager module , a terminal mode module  and a host operating system (OS) . The OS  may coordinate some activities associated with the apparatus . For example, the OS  may coordinate activities for sending one more applications and\/or associated data to one or more IVI client devices and may coordinate any other suitable activities. According to some example embodiments, the display  may be a touch screen display. The memory device  may include, for example, volatile and\/or non-volatile memory. For example, the memory device  may be an electronic storage device (for example, a computer readable storage medium) comprising gates configured to store data (for example, bits) that may be retrievable by a machine (for example, a computing device like processor ). In some embodiments, the memory device  may be a tangible memory device that is not transitory. The memory device  may be configured to store information, data, files, applications (e.g., Web applications (e.g., Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTML) applications, etc.)), instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with example embodiments of the invention. For example, the memory device  could be configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively, the memory device  could be configured to store instructions for execution by the processor . As yet another alternative, the memory device  may be one of a plurality of databases that store information and\/or media content (for example, pictures, videos, etc.).","The apparatus  may, according to some example embodiments, be a mobile terminal (for example, mobile terminal ) or a fixed communication device or computing device configured to employ example embodiments of the invention. According to some example embodiments, the apparatus  may be embodied as a chip or chip set. In other words, the apparatus  may comprise one or more physical packages (for example, chips) including materials, components and\/or wires on a structural assembly (for example, a baseboard). The structural assembly may provide physical strength, conservation of size, and\/or limitation of electrical interaction for component circuitry included thereon. The apparatus  may therefore, in some cases, be configured to implement embodiments of the invention on a single chip or as a single \u201csystem on a chip.\u201d As such, in some cases, a chip or chipset may constitute means for performing one or more operations for providing the functionalities described herein. Additionally or alternatively, the chip or chipset may constitute means for enabling user interface navigation with respect to the functionalities and\/or services described herein.","The processor  may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example, the processor  may be embodied as one or more of various processing means such as a coprocessor, microprocessor, a controller, a digital signal processor (DSP), processing circuitry with or without an accompanying DSP, or various other processing devices including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit), an FPGA (field programmable gate array), a microcontroller unit (MCU), a hardware accelerator, a special-purpose computer chip, or the like. In some example embodiments, the processor  may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory device  or otherwise accessible to the processor . As such, whether configured by hardware or software methods, or by a combination thereof, the processor  may represent an entity (for example, physically embodied in circuitry) capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the invention while configured accordingly. Thus, for example, when the processor  is embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor  may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively, as another example, when the processor  is embodied as an executor of software instructions, the instructions may specifically configure the processor  to perform the algorithms and operations described herein when the instructions are executed. However, in some cases, the processor  may be a processor of a specific device (for example, a mobile terminal or network device) adapted for employing embodiments of the invention by further configuration of the processor  by instructions for performing the algorithms and operations described herein. The processor  may include, among other things, a clock, an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) and logic gates configured to support operation of the processor .","In some example embodiments, the processor  may be configured to operate a connectivity program, such as a browser  (e.g., Web browser) or the like. In this regard, the connectivity program may enable the apparatus  to transmit and receive Web content, such as for example location-based content or any other suitable content (e.g., applications), according to a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) (e.g., an HTML Application Protocol), for example. In one example embodiment, the processor  may optionally be configured to operate a server module  (e.g., a Web server module) which may deliver content (e.g., one or more applications) to one or more devices. The content that may be delivered to one or more devices (e.g., a browser of a client device(s) (e.g., an IVI client device) may be accessed via a network (e.g., network  (e.g., Internet)) and\/or accessed from the memory device . In an example embodiment, the server module  may accept one or requests from a browser (e.g., browser , browser  of ) and may respond to the requests by sending applications (e.g., HTML applications (e.g., HTML5 applications)), Web pages, documents (e.g., HTML documents), files, etc. to the browser. In an alternative example embodiment, the processor  may execute the browser  to generate one or more requests that may be sent to an external network device (for example a server (e.g., Web server)) and the external network device may respond by sending applications (e.g., HTML applications), Web pages, documents (e.g., HTML documents), files, etc. to the apparatus .","The communication interface  may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware, a computer program product, or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and\/or transmit data from\/to a network and\/or any other device or module in communication with the apparatus . In this regard, the communication interface  may include, for example, an antenna (or multiple antennas) and supporting hardware and\/or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network (for example, network ). In fixed environments, the communication interface  may alternatively or also support wired communication. As such, the communication interface  may include a communication modem and\/or other hardware\/software for supporting communication via cable, digital subscriber line (DSL), universal serial bus (USB), Ethernet or other mechanisms.","The user interface  may be in communication with the processor  to receive an indication of a user input at the user interface  and\/or to provide an audible, visual, mechanical or other output to the user. As such, the user interface  may include, for example, a keyboard, a mouse, a joystick, a display, a touch screen, a microphone, a speaker, or other input\/output mechanisms. In some example embodiments in which the apparatus is embodied as a server or some other network devices, the user interface  may be limited, remotely located, or eliminated. The processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user interface, such as, for example, a speaker, ringer, microphone, display, and\/or the like. The processor  and\/or user interface circuitry comprising the processor  may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (for example, software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor  (for example, memory device , and\/or the like).","The terminal mode module  may be in communication with the processor  and the applications manager module . The terminal mode module  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software, configured to perform the corresponding functions of the terminal mode module , as described more fully below. For example, the terminal mode module  may be configured to discover a connection of the apparatus  to an IVI client device(s). The connection may, but need not be established via a Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) connection. Additionally, the terminal mode module  may perform authentication to verify that an IVI client device(s) may be trusted and is executing a browser or server. The terminal mode module  may perform authentication to determine whether an IVI client device(s) may be trusted by executing a Trusted Computing Group (TCG) protocol or alternatively performing a certificate based authentication according to Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) and\/or Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols as well as in any other suitable manner. In response to detection, by the terminal mode module , of a successful authentication, the terminal mode  may establish one or more secure channels between the apparatus  and the IVI client device(s) to exchange application specific information and device data as well as any other suitable data. The secure channels may but need not be Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) channels, Transport Layer Security (TLS) channels or any other suitable secure channels.","In some example embodiments, the processor  may be embodied as, include or otherwise control the applications manager module . The applications manager module  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (for example, processor  operating under software control, the processor  embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein, or a combination thereof) thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions of the applications manager module , as described below. Thus, in an example in which software is employed, a device or circuitry (for example, the processor  in one example) executing the software forms the structure associated with such means.","The applications manager module  may provide one or more applications (for example, HTML applications (e.g., HTML5 applications)) and\/or associated data to one or more IVI client devices to enable the IVI client devices to utilize the applications. For instance, an IVI client device(s) may not have a device API capable of enabling a corresponding application to be implemented by the IVI client device(s). In this regard, the applications manager module  may provide the IVI client device a corresponding device API. The applications and\/or data associated data provided by the applications manager module  to the IVI client device(s) may be stored in memory device  and\/or may be obtained via server module  or alternatively obtained from an external network device (e.g., a server).","The associated data corresponding to an application(s) that the applications manager module  may send to an IVI client device(s) may include one or more driver distraction rules\/regulations, permission data as well any other suitable data, as described more fully below. For example, the driver distraction rules\/regulations may be associated with data indicating rules as to whether an application(s) is allowed to be scrolled via a screen or display of an IVI client device, and may specify a minimum font sized for usage, a minimum response time of a user interface, and other suitable rules, as described more fully below. Also for example, the permission data may relate to an allowed capability or data access permission of an application(s). For purposes of illustration and not of limitation, the permission data may, but need not, indicate whether a corresponding application(s) may access location data of a user (e.g., location data of a vehicle that includes a corresponding IVI client device). The permission data may include data indicating any other suitable indications, allowed capabilities and\/or data access permission of one or more corresponding applications, as described more fully below.","Referring now to , a schematic block of an IVI client device according to an example embodiment is provided. According to some example embodiments, the IVI client device  may be embodied within a vehicle. In some example alternative embodiments, the IVI client device  may be a standalone device. The host operating system  may provide services for execution of various operations of the IVI client device. As shown in , the IVI client device  generally includes a processor  and an associated memory . The memory  may comprise volatile and\/or non-volatile memory, and may store content, data and\/or the like. For example, the memory may store content, data, information, and\/or the like transmitted from, and\/or received by, the IVI client device. Also for example, the memory  may store client applications, instructions, and\/or the like for the processor  to perform the various operations of the IVI client device in accordance with example embodiments of the invention, as described herein. The memory  may also store one or more applications (for example, Web applications (e.g., HTML applications)) and associated data (for example, driver distraction rules\/regulations, permission data, etc.) as well as any other suitable information.","In addition to the memory , the processor  may also be connected to at least one interface or other means for displaying, transmitting and\/or receiving data, content, and\/or the like. In this regard, the interface(s) may comprise at least one communication interface  or other means for transmitting and\/or receiving data, content, and\/or the like, as well as at least one user input interface . The user input interface , in turn, may comprise any of a number of devices allowing the network device to receive data from a user, such as a keypad, a touch display, a joystick or other input device. In this regard, the processor  may comprise user interface circuitry configured to control at least some functions of one or more elements of the user input interface. The processor and\/or user interface circuitry of the processor may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more elements of the user interface through computer program instructions (for example, software and\/or firmware) stored on a memory accessible to the processor (for example, volatile memory, non-volatile memory, and\/or the like).","The display  may be in communication with the processor . The display  may be configured to show data associated with one or more applications as well as any other suitable data (e.g., video data, image data, etc.). In an example embodiment, the display  may be a touch screen display. The terminal mode module  may be in communication with the processor  and the applications requestor module . The terminal mode module  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software, configured to perform the corresponding functions of the terminal mode module , as described more fully below. For example, the terminal mode module  may be configured to discover a connection of the IVI client device  to the apparatus . The connection may, but need not, be established via a UPnP connection. In this regard, in an instance in which the IVI client device  may be connected to a network (e.g., network ), the IVI client device  and the apparatus  may discover each other's presence on the network and may share\/exchange communications.","Similar to the terminal mode module , the terminal mode module  may perform authentication to verify that an apparatus  may be trusted and is executing a browser or server. The terminal mode module  may perform authentication to determine whether the apparatus  may be trusted by executing a TCG protocol or alternatively performing a certificate based authentication according to HTTPS and\/or TLS protocols as well as in any other suitable manner. In response to detection, by the terminal mode module , of a successful authentication, the terminal mode  may establish one or more secure channels between the apparatus  and the IVI client device  to exchange one or more applications and\/or associated data as well as any other suitable data. As described above, the secure channels may but need not be HTTPS channels, TLS channels or any other suitable secure channels.","The browser  (e.g., a Web browser) may request (e.g., an HTTP request) data from the apparatus . In an example embodiment, the browser  may request one or more applications (for example, Web applications (e.g., HTML applications)) and\/or associated data, a corresponding device API(s) and any other suitable data from the apparatus . The request(s) generated by the browser  may be received the server module  which may provide the requested data to the IVI client device . In another example embodiment, the request(s) may be received by the processor  and the processor  may obtain the requested data from a device (for example a network device (e.g. a server)) and may provide the data to the browser .","The applications may relate to applications that may not be stored in the memory  of the IVI client device . In instances in which a corresponding application(s) may be stored in memory , the received data may relate to a request to the apparatus  for a corresponding device API(s) to facilitate implementation of the corresponding application(s), for example.","In some example embodiments, the processor  may be embodied as, include or otherwise control the applications requestor module . The applications requestor module  may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software (for example, processor  operating under software control, the processor  embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein, or a combination thereof) thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions of the applications requestor module , as described below. Thus, in an example in which software is employed, a device or circuitry (for example, the processor  in one example) executing the software forms the structure associated with such means.","The applications requestor module  may receive indications (e.g., a list) of one or more applications stored by the apparatus , from the applications manager module , in response to detection of connection by the terminal mode module . In one example embodiment, the applications requestor module  may receive the indications of the one or more applications in response to the terminal mode module  discovering the apparatus , authenticating the apparatus  and establishing one or more secure connections between the IVI client device  and the apparatus . These indications may, but need not, correspond to visible indicia such as, for example, one or more corresponding icons shown on the display . In response to receipt of an indication of a selection (for example, by a user) of an item of visible indicia (e.g., an icon(s)), the applications requestor module  may generate a request that may be sent by the browser  to the apparatus  requesting that the apparatus  send the application corresponding to the selected item of visible indicia and\/or associated data.","In an example embodiment, the applications requestor module  may include data in the request specifying whether the IVI client device  has (for example, stored in memory ) a device API associated with the corresponding application. In an instance in which the applications requestor module  includes data in the request indicating that the IVI client device  does not have a corresponding device API, the applications manager module  may send a corresponding device API along with the corresponding application to the applications requestor module . As such, the apparatus  may provide a device API (for example, a remove device API (e.g., a JavaScript remote device API)) together with an application that is being requested based on a receipt of a selection of an icon associated with the application. In one example embodiment, the device API may correspond to a library which may include one or more call functions, routines, protocols associated with a corresponding application and any other suitable data.","By utilizing an example embodiment in instances in which the IVI client device  may store (e.g., pre-stored) some device APIs but not necessarily have a particular device API corresponding to a new desired application(s), the IVI client device  may obtain the device API and the corresponding desired application(s) from the apparatus , in the manner described above.","In an alternative example embodiment, in response to the terminal mode module  indicating to the applications requestor module  that the IVI client device  and the apparatus  are connected, the applications requestor module  may send indications of applications that are stored in memory  to the apparatus  and the applications manager module  may send indications of applications and associated data to applications requestor module  related to applications that are not stored in memory . In this regard, storage capacity of the memory  may be conserved by not sending, the applications requestor module , one or more indications of applications that may be stored by a memory (e.g., memory ) of the IVI client device .","As described above, the applications manager module  may provide data that is associated with an application(s) corresponding to a selected item of visible indicia (e.g., an icon) to the applications requestor module . In an example embodiment, the associated data may include but is not limited to one or more driving distraction rules\/regulations and\/or permission data, etc. The driving distraction rules\/regulations and the permission data may be maintained within a certificate (e.g., a digital certificate), which may be encrypted (for example, by using a digital signature (e.g., associated with a security key). In an example embodiment, the driving distraction rules\/regulations may be issued by a manufacturer of a vehicle and\/or one or may relate to one more laws of a country, state, city, or any other suitable entity, etc. The driving distraction rules\/regulations may relate to requirements that may need to be met by an application(s) in order for the application(s) to be utilized by the IVI client device  or at least to be utilized by the IVI client device  while a vehicle maintaining the IVI client device  is in transit. If the application does not meet one or more of the regulations, the applications requester module  may not execute the application(s) while the vehicle is being driven. Some examples of driving distraction rules\/regulations may include, but are not limited to, disallowing video associated with an application to be played, prohibiting automatically scrolling text shown on a display (e.g., display ), a font size of text not to exceed a certain size, a touch time response of a user interface that should occur within a certain time period, etc. In an instance in which the applications requestor module  determines that a corresponding application violates any of the driving distraction rules\/regulations, the applications requestor module , may not execute corresponding application at least not while the vehicle having the IVI client device  is being driven.","In an example embodiment, the applications requestor module  may determine whether a corresponding application violates any of the driving distraction rules\/regulations by communicating with the apparatus  and asking the applications manager module  to provide the applications requestor module  with the corresponding distraction rules\/regulations. In this regard, the applications manager module  may utilize a security key (e.g., a secret key, a public key, a private key, etc.) to access the distraction rules\/regulations in the certificate and may provide the distraction rules\/regulations to the applications requestor module . The applications requestor module  may analyze the distraction rules\/regulations to determine whether the corresponding application(s) meets the distraction rules\/regulations.","In an alternative example embodiment, the applications manager module  may provide the certificate to the applications requestor module  and the applications requestor module  may utilize a key (e.g., a secret key, a public key, a private key etc.) to access the certificate to determine the distraction rules\/regulations and for determining whether the corresponding application meets the distraction rules\/regulations.","The certificate may also include permission data indicating one or more permissions of usage for a corresponding application(s). The permission data may specify whether certain functions of a corresponding application(s) are allowed. For purposes of illustration and not of limitation, the permission data may indicate that a corresponding application(s) does not have permission to access location data and\/or may specify that a user is prohibited from interacting with a user interface associated with an application while a vehicle is being driven, etc. As such, the applications requestor module  may execute the corresponding application(s) according the permission data.","Referring now to , a diagram illustrating communications between an apparatus and an IVI client device according to an example embodiment is provided. The terminal mode module  and the optional server module  of the apparatus  are shown in the example of . Additionally, the terminal mode module  and the browser  of the IVI client device  are shown in the example embodiment of . In the example embodiment of , an overall architecture for generating initial steps to run\/execute one or more applications at the IVI client device  is provided. At operation 1, the service\/application discovery mechanism  may be implemented by the terminal mode module  to find or identify a server service (e.g., server module  (e.g., Web server) of the apparatus . Also, at operation 1, the service\/application discovery mechanism  may be implemented by the terminal mode module  to find or identify a browser (e.g. browser ) service of the IVI client device . The service\/application discovery mechanism  and the service\/application discovery mechanism  may utilize a UPnP device and\/or a service discovery\/advertisement to find or identify the web service and the browser.","Once matching services are found, at operation 2, the device attestation or mutual authentication modules ,  may verify each others trust and that the apparatus  and the IVI client device  are running an authentic web server or browser to ensure that the server and browser are not implementing malware. As an example, the device attestation or mutual authentication modules ,  may perform the verification based in part on implementing one or more attestation procedures defined by TCG or a certificate-based mutual authentication as defined in TLS or HTTPS. At operation 3, in response to a detection of a successful attestation\/authentication, the server module  and browser  may establish one or multiple secure channels to deliver one or more applications and\/or application specific information and device data between each other. In an example embodiment a secure channel may be a HTTPS channel, a TLS channel, or other suitable network connection with data encryption.","Referring now to , a system and method for providing one or more applications to an IVI client device according to example embodiment is provided. In the system of , the applications manager module  may include one or more applications  (also referred to herein as application(s) ), one or more device APIs  (also referred to herein as device API(s)  and one or more other APIs (also referred to herein as other API(s) . Additionally, the applications requestor module  may include one or more application(s) , (also referred to herein as application(s) ), one or more remote device API(s) (also referred to herein as remote device API(s)  (e.g., a JavaScript remote device API(s))), one or more other APIs (also referred to herein as other API(s)) and a remote communication API . In an example embodiment, the other API(s)  and the other API(s)  may be JavaScript APIs which may be either platform independent or platform dependent but not necessarily associated with data of a user. In one example embodiment, the other API(s)  and the other API(s)  may be one or more libraries such as, for example, respective math libraries which may have no dependency on an underlying platform. In another alternative example embodiment, the other API(s)  and the other API(s)  may be respective Web-based Graphics Library (WebGL) APIs which may provide standard APIs for accessing graphics hardware for one or more web applications.","At operation 1, an IVI client device  may request an application from an apparatus  (e.g., mobile terminal ). In this regard, the browser  of IVI client device  may generate a request for an application (e.g., a request for an application(s) ) and may send the request to the server module  of the apparatus . In response to receipt of the request for the application the server module  may retrieve information, including but not limited to, a type of the application being requested, one or more corresponding driving distraction rules\/regulations supported by the application, permission data and any other suitable information.","At operations 2 and 3, the server module  may transmit the requested application (e.g., an application(s)  which may correspond to an application(s) ) to the IVI client device . At operation 4, the remote device API (e.g., a JavaScript (JS) remote device API(s)) may correspond to the device API  of the apparatus . As such, in an example embodiment software code associated with the device API(s)  may, but need not be, the same as software code for the remote device API(s) . In an example embodiment, the remote device API(s)  may be pre-stored in a memory of the IVI client device  or the applications requestor manager . However, in another example embodiment, the remote device API(s)  may be received from the apparatus  (for example, from the server module ). As an example, the IVI client device  may receive the remote device API(s)  from the apparatus  in response to a request for a corresponding application in an instance in which the request, generated by the applications requestor module , may include information indicating that the IVI client device  does not have a corresponding remote device API(s).","The remote device API(s)  (e.g., a JS remote device API(s)) may request information (e.g., device data), that may be required or needed for execution of the received application and\/or for performing one or more functions of the received application, from the remote communication API  (e.g., a JS remote communication API) At operation 5, in response to receipt of the request, the remote communication API  may send a generated request to the apparatus  to fetch or retrieve the needed information (e.g., device data) from the apparatus . As such, the IVI client device  itself does not necessarily need to provide device data associated with the remote device API(s) . It should be pointed out that the remote communication API  may utilize a secure communication channel (a HTTPS channel, TLS channel, etc.) to ensure secure communication in an instance in which the remote communication API  may send a request to the apparatus  for needed information (e.g., device data).","Although the server module  may perform some functions of the system of , described above, associated with receiving requests for applications and associated data as well as needed information (e.g., device data), it should be pointed out that in an alternative embodiment, a processor (e.g., processor ) may receive the requests from the IVI client device . In this regard, the processor may retrieve corresponding information locally (e.g., from memory device ) or from an external device (e.g., a network device (e.g., a server)) and may provide the retrieved data to the IVI client device . In this regard, the processor may provide the requested applications and\/or associated data (e.g., driver distraction rules\/regulations, permission data, etc.) as well as needed information (e.g., device data) and any other suitable data to the IVI client device .","Referring now to , a diagram illustrating messages being exchanged between an apparatus and an IVI client device according to an example embodiment is provided. At operation 1, the browser (e.g., browser ) of an IVI client device (e.g., IVI client device ) may generate a request (e.g., a HTTP GET request) for an application such as, for example, a map application (also referred to herein as mapapp). At operation 2, a server (e.g., server module ) of apparatus  (e.g., mobile terminal ) may send the requested application (e.g., a mapapp html file) to the browser . At operation 3, the browser may request information associated with the application from the server. At operation 4, the server may respond with the requested information. In this regard, the server may provide the browser with information indicating an application type of the application (e.g., mapapp html file), a checksum of necessary files, one or more allowed permissions (or capabilities) of the application, one or more driver distraction rules\/regulations met by the application and any other suitable data.","The applications requestor module  may receive this information from the browser and may utilize the checksum to verify that all codes (e.g., software code) associated with the requested application are genuine and the browser may utilize the application type and driver distraction rules\/regulations (e.g., Rules a, b, c, etc.) to decide whether to allow the application to be utilized while a vehicle is being driven. At operation 5, the received application (e.g., mapapp html file) may be executed in the IVI client device (for example, executed by the processor  and\/or the applications requestor module ) and the executed application may request location data from a device API (e.g., remote device API(s) ). In this regard, the remote device API may generate a request for location data (e.g., data request=location, function=\u2018getLastLocation\u2019, etc.) and the generated request may be provided by the remote device API to a remote communication API (e.g., remote communication API ). The remote communication API may generate a message requesting the location data. The generated message may be provided by the remote communication API to the browser which may send the message to the server in operation 5. By enabling the remote device API (e.g., remote device API(s) ) to rely on the remote communication API (e.g., remote communication API ) for accessing at least some data, the following benefits may be achieved. The remote communication API, may maintain a secure connection between an IVI client device (e.g., IVI client device ) and an apparatus (e.g., apparatus  (for example, mobile terminal )) and as such the remote communication API may operate as a gatekeeper for critical data received from an apparatus by an IVI client device. Since the remote communication API may be embodied within an IVI client device, there is less chance for malware to override an API to access critical data of a user. Moreover, the remote communication API (e.g., remote communication API ) of an example embodiment may, but need not, be a standardized API, which may be shared across different platforms.","In an example embodiment, the message generated by the remote communication API may include data indicating that a corresponding application (e.g., mapapp html (also referred to herein as mapapp.html)) is requesting location data in given JavaScript (JS) context (e.g., js=mapapp.html:line ) and may indicate a function name (e.g., function='getLastLocation).","At operation 6, the server may enable verification that the application requesting the data has a valid permission to request the location data. For instance, the server may inform the applications manager module  that the IVI client device is requesting location data. As such, the applications manager module  may examine permission data in a certificate to determine whether the application is given permission to obtain location data. In an instance in which the applications manager module  determines that the permission data indicates that the application (e.g., mapapp html file) is allowed access to location data (e.g., latitude\/longitude coordinates 123.87, 30.00), the applications manager module  may notify the server and the server may send the requested location data to the browser. In response to receipt of the location data from the browser, the applications manager module  and\/or processor  may enable the application to utilize the location data.","It should be pointed out that in the example embodiment of  the messages exchanged between the server of the apparatus (e.g., apparatus ) and the browser of the IVI client device (e.g., IVI client device ) may be communicated across one or more secure channels (e.g., a HTTPS channel(s), a TLS channel(s), etc.) in operations 3-6. Although the messages of  may relate to a map application, for purposes of illustration and not of limitation, it should be pointed out that the messages may be associated with any other suitable applications (e.g., applications received from the apparatus ) without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.","Referring now to , a diagram illustrating messages for obtaining data requested by an application(s) according to an example embedment is provided. In the example embodiment of  an application(s)  may correspond to the application received from the server of . As described above, the received application (e.g., a mapping application (e.g., mapapp html)) may request data (e.g., location data) from a device API such as, for example, remote device API(s) . The request sent from the received application to the remote device API(s)  may relate to a function call such as, for example, getLastLocation. (See operation 1). In response to receipt of the request from the received application the remote device API(s)  may generate a request with data (e.g., data requesting that the function call getLast Location be performed) requesting that remote communication API  to obtain the requested data. In this regard, the generated request may be provided by the remote device API(s)  to the remote communication API . (See operation 2)","In response to receipt of the request from the remote device API(s) , the remote communication API  may analyze the data of the request to determine whether data being requested (e.g., location data) corresponds to an authorized or valid application. In an example embodiment, the remote communication API  may determine whether the requested data corresponds to a valid application in an instance in which the remote communication API  recognizes a function call (e.g., \u2018getLastLocation\u2019) of the request being sent by the remote device API(s)  as corresponding to data associated with the requesting application (e.g., the mapping application). In an instance in which the remote communication API  does not recognize a corresponding function call as corresponding to an application requesting data, the remote communication API  may stop the process of obtaining the requested data and may send a message to the processor  and\/or the applications requestor module  specifying that the requesting application should no longer be executed. The message may include data indicating that the requesting application may be invalid and unauthorized to operate on the IVI client device. In this regard, the remote communication API  may provide a security measure by denoting that an application may be invalid.","On the other hand, in an instance in which the remote communication API  recognizes the call function(s) in the request sent from the remote device API , the remote communication API  may determine that the requesting application (for example, application(s)  (e.g., mapapp html)) is valid or authorized. As such, the remote communication API  may generate and may send a message to the browser  requesting the browser  to retrieve the requested data from the server. (See operations 3 & 4). In response, the browser  may send the message to the server and may receive the requested data (e.g., location data (e.g., latitude\/longitude coordinates 123.87, 30.00)). (See operation 5) In response to receipt of the requested data from the server, the browser  may provide the requested data to the remote communication API . (See operation 6) Upon receipt of the requested data, the remote communication API  may provide the requested data to the remote device API  which may provide the requested data to the requesting application (e.g., application(s)  (e.g., mapapp html). (See operations 7 & 8). Upon receipt of the requested data, the requesting application may utilize the requested data (e.g., to provide coordinates of a vehicle maintaining the IVI client device).","Referring to , a flowchart of an example method for providing one or more applications to an IVI client device according to an example embodiment is provided. At operation , an apparatus (e.g., applications manager module ) may provide at least one application (e.g., application(s) ) and associated data (e.g., driver distraction rules\/regulations, permission data, etc.) to a device (e.g., IVI client device ) in response to receipt of an indication of a selection (e.g., a selection of an item of visible indicia (e.g., an icon)) associated with the application. At operation , an apparatus (e.g., applications manager module ) may enable the application to access requested data via a plurality of application programming interfaces (e.g., remote device API(s) , remote communication API ) during execution of the application. At operation , an apparatus (e.g., applications manager module ) may provide the requested data to the application in response to receipt of at least one message generated by a first application programming interface (e.g., remote communication API ) that received a request for the requested data from a second application programming interface (e.g., remote device API(s) ). The second application programming interface may have received a message requesting the requested data from the application (e.g., application(s) ).","It should be pointed out that  is a flowchart of a system, method and computer program product according to some example embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart, can be implemented by various means, such as hardware, firmware, and\/or a computer program product including one or more computer program instructions. For example, one or more of the procedures described above may be embodied by computer program instructions. In this regard, in some example embodiments, the computer program instructions which embody the procedures described above are stored by a memory device (for example, memory device , memory ) and executed by a processor (for example, processor , processor , applications manager module , applications requestor manager ). As will be appreciated, any such computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus (for example, hardware) to produce a machine, such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus cause the functions specified in the flowchart blocks to be implemented. In some example embodiments, the computer program instructions are stored in a computer-readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function(s) specified in the flowchart blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer-implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus implement the functions specified in the flowchart blocks.","Accordingly, blocks of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowchart, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based computer systems which perform the specified functions, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","In some example embodiments, an apparatus for performing the method of  above may comprise a processor (for example, the processor , the processor , the applications manager module , the applications requestor manager ) configured to perform some or each of the operations (-) described above. The processor may, for example, be configured to perform the operations (-) by performing hardware implemented logical functions, executing stored instructions, or executing algorithms for performing each of the operations. Alternatively, the apparatus may comprise means for performing each of the operations described above. In this regard, according to some example embodiments, examples of means for performing operations (-) may comprise, for example, the processor  (for example, as means for performing any of the operations described above), the processor , the applications manager module , the applications requestor manager  and\/or a device or circuitry for executing instructions or executing an algorithm for processing information as described above.","Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover, although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and\/or functions, it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and\/or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard, for example, different combinations of elements and\/or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
