---
title: Method for producing highly conformal transparent conducting oxides
abstract: A method for forming a transparent conducting oxide product layer. The method includes use of precursors, such as tetrakis-(dimethylamino) tin and trimethyl indium, and selected use of dopants, such as SnO and ZnO for obtaining desired optical, electrical and structural properties for a highly conformal layer coating on a substrate. Ozone was also input as a reactive gas which enabled rapid production of the desired product layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401231&OS=09401231&RS=09401231
owner: UCHICAGO ARGONNE, LLC
number: 09401231
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE VARIOUS EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The United States Government claims certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38 between the United States Government and the University of Chicago and\/or pursuant to DE-AC02-06CH11357 between the Untied States Government and UChicago Argonne, LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.","This invention relates to a method and system for producing transparent conducting oxides. More particularly the invention relates to methods and systems for producing a variety of highly conformal transparent conducting oxides, such as, indium oxide, indium tin oxide, indium zinc oxide and tin zinc oxide.","Transparent conducting oxides (\u201cTCOs\u201d) are important components for many applications, such as but not limited to: photovoltaic cells, flat panel displays, touch screens and architectural glass. Current methods of deposition, such as sputtering, are typically used; but production costs are in need of reduction; and quality of the product films need to be improved for various applications and also for providing layer uniformity over large areas. Previously, InOdeposition by ALD has been accomplished using InClwith either HO or HOas the oxygen source. Although useful for coating planar surfaces, this method suffers from several limitations. First, the InClchemistry requires high growth temperatures of 300\u00b0 C. to 500\u00b0 C., and yields a low growth rate of only 0.25-0.40 \u212b\/cycle. In addition, the InClhas a very low vapor pressure and must be heated to 285\u00b0 C. just to saturate a planar surface. Furthermore, the corrosive HCl by-product can damage the deposition equipment. But the greatest limitation of the InCl\/HO method, especially for coating nanoporous materials, is that InClcan etch the deposited InO. Consequently, nanoporous materials require very long precursor exposures that are likely to completely remove the InOfrom the outer portions of the nanoporous substrate.","An improved ALD process for InOhas also been sought for many years and a number of alternate precursors have been investigated including \u03b2-diketonates (In(hfac)(hfac=hexafluoropentadionate), In(thd)(thd=2,2,6,6-teramethyl-3,5-heptanedioneate), and In(acac)(acac=2,4-pentanedionate)) and trimethyl indium (In(CH)). Unfortunately, these efforts were unsuccessful. No growth was observed using \u03b2-diketonates with water or hydrogen peroxide, while trimethyl indium did not yield self-limiting growth.","An improved method and system for producing indium oxide (InO) and other transparent conducting oxides is provided by the instant invention. InOcan also be doped with tin to form indium tin oxide (\u201cITO\u201d) with improved electrical conductivity, high optical transparency and good chemical stability. Deposition of such materials is accomplished by using atomic layer deposition (\u201cALD\u201d) to deposit ITO (and other such transparent conducting oxides) over large areas with high uniformity to address selected commercial applications. The ALD method is used in conjunction with particular precursor materials, such as trimethyl indium (TMIn\u201d) due to its high vapor pressure, low cost and availability as a commodity. The ALD method is used with TMIn and O(ozone). In addition to ITO, other transparent conducting oxides can be prepared including, for example without limitation, doped ITO and tin zinc oxide. These and other features of the invention will be described in more detail hereinafter with reference to the figures described below.","In one form of the invention a system  is shown in  which illustrates a flow diagram of an atomic layer deposition (\u201cALD\u201d) process used to form layers of transparent conducting oxides. In the system,  various gas sources are provided, such as for example, precursor sources  and inert gas  which are selectively output to reaction chamber . Vacuum pump  enables control of the vacuum level and\/or pressure level of gases input to the reaction chamber .  illustrates an example of a cycle of gas level pulses during an ALD deposition cycle.  shows schematically one ALD cycle of gas pulsing and purges of the reaction chamber .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["60","60","70","80","90","100","110","120","130","70","110","120","130","60","140"],"sub":["3","2","2 ","2","3 ","2","3 ","3"]},"In a preferred embodiment, InOwas deposited using the system  by use of the precursors TMIn and O, and was compared to unproductive uses of HO, HOand O. This point is further amplified by reference to  showing InOgrowth rates under various conditions. The resulting InOlayers have highly desirable optical, electrical and mechanical\/structural properties; and various properties are shown in , including for example, refractive index, optical transmittance, resistivity (with and without annealing step), carrier concentration, Hall mobility and X-ray diffraction patterns are illustrative of crystalline\/amorphous structures (with and without annealing).  shows the various molecular orbital levels of the deposited InOlayers from an XPS scan.","In order to illustrate further the effectiveness of the use of Oto produce SnOdeposition along with InO,  illustrate growth curves for a variety of conditions, including co-deposition of InO, and data indicating achievement of SnOcontaining layers with desirable optical and electrical properties.","Other transparent conducting oxides can be deposited very effectively using O, such as Zn\u2014InO, using the system  with precursors ZnO and TMIn to produce doped InOlayers. In  are shown growth curves, again showing the effectiveness of the use of Owith precursors, to provide layers of InOdoped with ZnO. The resulting layers have excellent optical and electrical properties as shown by .","The preferred embodiments described hereinafter illustrate the advantageous features of forming transparent conducting oxides, such as InO(doped and undoped) by use of TMIn and TDMAStetrakis-(dimethylamino) tin and Oto produce layers with excellent optical, electrical and structural properties, contrary to conventional teachings. These layers enable application to a wide variety of commercial applications and produceable with greatly reduced cost and simplified system requirements.","The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed, and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments, and with various modifications, as are suited to the particular use contemplated."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","sub":["2","3 ","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","sub":["2","3 ","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4C","sub":["2","3 ","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4D","sub":"3 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 4E","FIG. 4D"],"sub":"3 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A","b":["1","5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","sub":["2","3 ","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sub":["2","3 ","3 ","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7A","b":["1","7","4"],"sub":["2","3 ","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8B","sub":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 9A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 9B","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 9C","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 10A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 10B","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 11A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 11B","FIG. 11A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 12A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 12B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 13A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 13B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 13C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 14A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 14B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 15A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 15B","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 15C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 16A","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 16B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 17A","FIG. 16A"],"sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 17B","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 18","sub":["2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 19","sub":["2 ","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIGS. 20A-20F","sub":["2","2 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 21","sub":["2","2 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 22","sub":["2 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 23A","sub":["2","3 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 23B","sub":["2","3 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 24A","sub":["2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 24B","sub":["2","3 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 24C","sub":["2","3 ","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 24D","sub":["2","2 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 24E","sub":["2","2 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 24F","sub":["2","2 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 25A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 25B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 25C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 25D","FIG. 25C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 25E","sub":["2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 25F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 25G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 26","sub":["2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 28","sub":["2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 29A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 29B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIGS. 30A-30F","sub":["2","3 ","2","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIGS. 31A-31E","sub":["2","3 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 32A","FIG. 32B"],"sub":["2","3 ","2","3","2","3 ","2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 32A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 34A","FIG. 33"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 34B","FIG. 33"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 34C","FIG. 33"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
