---
title: Image forming apparatus, data storing method, and non-transitory computer readable recording medium that stores data storing program
abstract: An image forming apparatus includes an interface, a reading unit, an internal storage, and a deletion control unit. The interface is configured to establish a connection with an external storage. The internal storage is configured to store the data read from the external storage. The deletion control unit is configured to delete the data stored in the internal storage on the basis of an operation related to releasing the connection with the external storage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08810845&OS=08810845&RS=08810845
owner: KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc.
number: 08810845
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110925
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","First Embodiment","Second Embodiment","Third Embodiment","Fourth Embodiment"],"p":["This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from the corresponding Japanese Patent Application No. 2010-217266, filed in the Japan Patent Office on Sep. 28, 2010, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","1. Technical Field","The present disclosure relates to a process, performed by image forming apparatuses, for restoring necessary data using external storage.","2. Description of the Related Art","Examples of typical image forming apparatuses include a multifunction peripheral having a plurality of functions such as a facsimile function and a network function, in addition to a printing function. In such an image forming apparatus, data, such as address book data, necessary for using various functions is registered.","An external storage can be used to register data. That is, by connecting an external storage to an image forming apparatus, the image forming apparatus can read data stored in the external storage and register the data.","On the other hand, when a user uses data that the user does not want to register in the image forming apparatus, the data needs to be input every time the user uses the image forming apparatus.","An image forming apparatus according to the present disclosure includes an interface, an internal storage, and a deletion control unit. The interface is configured to establish a connection with an external storage. The internal storage is configured to store the data read from the external storage. The deletion control unit is configured to delete the data stored in the internal storage on the basis of an operation related to releasing the connection with the external storage.","A data storing method according to the present disclosure includes the steps of: (i) an interface establishing a connection with an external storage; (ii) an internal storage storing the data read from the external storage; and (iii) a deletion control unit deleting the data stored in the internal storage on the basis of an operation related to releasing the connection with the external storage.","A non-transitory computer readable recording medium stores a data storing program executed by a computer of an image forming apparatus. The data storing program includes a first through third program codes. The first program code causes the computer to establish a connection with an external storage via an interface and to read data in the external storage. The second program code causes the computer to store the data read from the external storage in an internal storage. The third program code causes the computer to delete the data stored in the internal storage on the basis of an operation related to releasing the connection with the external storage.","Additional features and advantages are described herein, and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.","Embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"Referring to , at least a pair of image forming apparatuses  and  is provided in the present embodiment. Image forming apparatuses  and  have the same configuration.","Each of image forming apparatuses  and  includes controller , network interface , external interface , operation panel , embedded storage , and functional device .","Controller  is a control component such as a CPU (Central Processing Unit). Controller  controls various operations of image forming apparatus by executing software programs.","Network interface  is a network interface card connecting to a network such as a LAN (Local Area Network). Network interface  sends and receives data to and from other information processing terminals via a network.","Operation panel  is a touch panel liquid crystal display that receives operation instructions for image forming apparatus  or  and displays operational statuses.","External interface  is an interface card for allowing connection of USB (Universal Serial Bus) storage  as an external storage. Specifically, external interface  has an input\/output port  into which USB storage  is inserted so as to be connected. External interface , upon detection of the insertion and connection of USB storage  into and with input\/output port , outputs a detection signal.","Another type of storage or an HDD (Hard Disk Drive) that can be mounted or unmounted in image forming apparatuses  and  may be used as an external storage.","Embedded storage  includes volatile storage  as an internal storage and non-volatile storage , and stores software programs such as various application programs and data necessary for various functions. Note that examples of such data necessary for various functions include a database, address book data, settings data necessary for executing various functions, and image data.","Volatile storage  includes a RAM (Random Access Memory) that is a main storage. Non-volatile storage  includes a ROM (Read Only Memory) that is a main storage, and the HDD as an auxiliary storage, for example.","Functional device  includes printer  and facsimile device , for example. Printer  performs a printing process for data input through network interface  or external interface . Facsimile device  transmits and receives facsimile data to and from another facsimile device through network interface  or a telephone line.","Controller , by executing control programs such as a data storing program, operates as deletion control unit , data management unit  as a reading unit, USB control unit , panel control unit , network control unit , printer control unit , and facsimile control unit .","Deletion control unit  deletes data stored in embedded storage . Deletion control unit  deletes, from embedded storage , data that is the same as the data stored in USB storage  in response to the unmounting (connection release) of USB storage .","Data management unit  reads data stored in embedded storage  and writes the data into USB storage  connected to external interface . Data management unit  reads data in USB storage  connected to external interface  and stores the data in embedded storage .","USB control unit  controls USB storage  connected to external interface .","Panel control unit  controls the display and operation of operation panel .","Network control unit  transmits and receives data through network interface .","Printer control unit  controls the printing operation for printer .","Facsimile control unit  controls facsimile transmission and reception for facsimile device .","In a data storing process of the present disclosure, data in USB storage  is temporarily stored and used in image forming apparatus  or , and deleted after having been used.","In the case where address book data is stored, for example, address book data in non-volatile storage  of one of image forming apparatuses  and  is first stored in USB storage  (backup process). Then, the address book data in USB storage  is stored in volatile storage  of the other of image forming apparatuses  and . The address book stored in volatile storage  is deleted after having been used (restoring process).","Note that, in image forming apparatus  or  illustrated in , controller  is configured to implement deletion control unit  and data management unit  by executing a program in embedded storage . Instead, controller  may be configured to implement deletion control unit  and data management unit  by executing a program in USB storage .","With this configuration, a program in USB storage  is executed by controller  if the backup process or the restoring process is selected on operation panel  while USB storage  is connected to external interface . As a result of this execution, controller  operates as deletion control unit  and data management unit . Note that controller  operates as deletion control unit  only when the restoring process is selected.","Hereinafter, the backup process and three types of restoring processes are described regarding the data storing process of the present disclosure.","A first embodiment relates to the backup process.  illustrates a flowchart of a process for backing up data from the image forming apparatus to the USB storage in the first embodiment.","The backup process is started as a result of the USB storage being connected to the external interface of the image forming apparatus, and the process of step S and subsequent steps is performed.","Step S: When the USB storage is connected to the input\/output port, the external interface outputs a detection signal to the USB control unit. Thereby, step S is completed and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit determines whether or not the detection signal has been received. If the USB control unit has received the detection signal (Yes in step S), the process flow goes to step S. If the USB control unit has not received the detection signal (No in step S), the process flow goes back to step S.","Step S: The panel control unit, after the USB control unit has been connected, displays an internal storage screen illustrated in  on the operation panel in response to a selection of the backup process on the operation panel. On the internal storage screen illustrated in , by selecting the inside portion of a check box on the left side of the screen, a check is displayed and corresponding backup data is specified. In , \u201cAddress Book Data001\u201d is specified. The panel control unit accepts the specified address book data as data to be stored (backed up) in the USB storage. In the first embodiment, address book data is specified for each address. When the address book data is specified, the process flow goes to step S illustrated in .","Step S: The panel control unit accepts a backup instruction on the internal memory screen of the operation panel. The backup instruction is executed by selecting \u201cBACKUP\u201d on the screen illustrated in . Note that the backup process is terminated if \u201cCANCEL\u201d is selected on the screen.","In this manner, the backup process is started and the process flow goes to step S illustrated in .","Step S: In response to the backup instruction, the panel control unit accepts input for determining whether or not a password authentication setting is newly registered for the address book data to be backed up, on the screen of the operation panel. If it is determined that the password authentication setting is newly registered (Yes in step S), the process flow goes to step S. If it is determined that the password authentication setting is not newly registered (No in step S), the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The panel control unit accepts input of a password on the screen of the operation panel. When a password is input, the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The data management unit reads the specified address book data from the embedded storage of the image forming apparatus and creates data for password authentication. Thereby step S is completed and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The data management unit writes the address book data together with the data for password authentication into the USB storage. Note that, if it is determined in step S that a password authentication setting is not newly registered, the data management unit writes the address book data read in response to the backup instruction into the USB storage. Thereby, step S is completed and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The panel control unit, when the address book data has been written into the USB storage, accepts an instruction to unmount the USB storage, by displaying an external storage screen illustrated in  on the operation panel. The instruction to unmount the USB storage is executed by selecting \u201cUNMOUNT STORAGE\u201d on the screen illustrated in . Thereby, step S illustrated in  is completed, and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit outputs an unmounting permission notification to the external interface in response to the unmount instruction. Thereby, the external interface enters a state in which the USB storage can be unmounted. On the operation panel, an external storage screen for confirming unmounting illustrated in  is displayed by the panel control unit, thereby prompting the confirmation of unmounting. Thereby, step S illustrated in  is completed and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit determines whether or not a USB storage detection signal exists. If the detection signal does not exist (Yes in step S), the USB control unit determines that the USB storage has been unmounted (connection has been released) and terminates the backup process. On the other hand, if the detection signal exists (No in step S), the process of step S is repeated.","According to the first embodiment, by connecting the USB storage, data in the embedded storage of the image forming apparatus can be easily backed up so as to be used in another image forming apparatus.","A second embodiment relates to the restoring process.  illustrates a flowchart of a process for restoring data from the USB storage to the image forming apparatus in the second embodiment.","The restoring process is started as a result of the USB storage being connected to the external interface of the image forming apparatus, and the process of step S and subsequent steps is performed.","Step S: When the USB storage is connected to the input\/output port, the external interface outputs a detection signal to the USB control unit. Thereby, step S is completed and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit determines whether or not the detection signal has been received. If the USB control unit has received the detection signal (Yes in step S), the process flow goes to step S. If the USB control unit has not received the detection signal (No in step S), the process flow goes back to step S.","Step S: The panel control unit, after the USB control unit has been connected, displays an external storage screen illustrated in  on the operation panel in response to a selection of the restoring process on the operation panel. On the external storage screen illustrated in , by selecting the inside portion of a check box on the left side of the screen, a check is displayed and corresponding address book data backed up in the USB storage is specified. In , \u201cAddress Book Data001\u201d is specified. The panel control unit accepts the specified address book data as data to be restored from the address book data stored in the USB storage. In the second embodiment, address book data is specified for each address. After the address book has been specified, the process flow goes to step S illustrated in .","Note that in the second embodiment, if image data is also stored in the USB storage, the image data can be specified as data to be printed. In this case, the printing process is performed by selecting \u201cPRINT\u201d on the external storage screen.","Step S: The panel control unit accepts a restoration instruction on the external storage screen of the operation panel. The restoration instruction is executed by selecting \u201cRESTORE\u201d on the screen illustrated in . Note that the restoring process is terminated if \u201cCANCEL\u201d is selected on the screen.","In response to the restoration instruction, the panel control unit causes the external storage screen illustrated in  to be displayed and accepts a confirmation instruction of the restoring process. The confirmation instruction is executed by selecting \u201cYES\u201d in the external storage screen.","In this manner, the restoring process is started, and the process flow goes to step S illustrated in .","Step S: In response to the confirmation instruction, the data management unit starts to read the address book data to be restored from the USB storage. If the address book data is read, the data management unit determines whether or not the password authentication setting exists for the address book data. If it is determined that password authentication has been set (Yes in step S), the process flow goes to step S. If it is determined that password authentication has not been set (No in step S), the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The panel control unit accepts input of a password on the screen of the operation panel. When a password is input, the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The data management unit determines whether or not the input password is the same as the set password. If authentication based on the input password is successful, the process flow goes to step S. If not successful, the present restoring process is terminated.","Step S: The data management unit, in response to the password authentication, reads the specified address book data and writes the address book data into the volatile storage in the embedded storage. In the second embodiment, \u201cAddress Book Data001\u201d is stored. Referring to , the external storage screen displays \u201cAddress Book Data001: Yamada\u201d, and a user can confirm that \u201cAddress Book Data001\u201d corresponding to \u201cYamada\u201d is restored. Note that, if password authentication is not required in step S, the data management unit reads the address book data and writes the address book data into the volatile storage in response to the restoration instruction.","After storing is completed, the panel control unit displays an address book screen illustrated in  on the basis of operation of the operation panel, and allows the restored address book data to be confirmed. In the second embodiment, \u201cYamada\u201d illustrated in  has been newly registered.","After restoring, various functions such as a facsimile function can be performed using the address book data. At this time, since the address book data has been stored in the volatile storage, processing speed can be increased. After various functions are performed, the process flow goes to step S illustrated in .","Step S: The panel control unit, on the basis of operation on the operation panel, accepts an instruction to unmount the USB storage, by displaying the external storage screen illustrated in . The instruction to unmount the USB storage is executed by, for example, selecting \u201cUNMOUNT STORAGE\u201d on the screen illustrated in . Thereby, step S illustrated in  is completed, and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit outputs an unmounting permission notification to the external interface in response to the unmount instruction. Thereby, the external interface enters a state in which the USB storage can be unmounted. At the same time, the USB control unit outputs the unmounting permission notification to the deletion control unit.","On the operation panel, the external storage screen for confirming unmounting illustrated in  is displayed by the panel control unit, thereby prompting the confirmation of unmounting. Thereby, step S illustrated in  is completed and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The deletion control unit, in response to the unmounting permission notification, deletes the address book data restored in the volatile storage. At the time of deletion, the deletion control unit determines whether or not the address book data in the volatile storage includes the same data as the address book data stored in the USB storage. If there is the same address book data, this address book data is deleted from the volatile storage device. In the second embodiment, \u201cAddress Book Data001\u201d, i.e., the address book data of \u201cYamada,\u201d is deleted.","After the deletion is completed, the panel control unit, on the basis of operation on the operation panel, causes the address book screen illustrated in  to be displayed, allowing the deletion of the address book data to be confirmed.","When step S is completed in this manner, the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit determines whether or not the USB storage detection signal exists. If the detection signal does not exist (Yes in step S), the USB control unit determines that the USB storage has been unmounted (connection has been released) and terminates the restoring process. On the other hand, if the detection signal exists (No in step S), the process of step S is repeated.","According to the present disclosure, by connecting the USB storage, data can be easily stored in the embedded storage of the image forming apparatus and used. After the use of the data, the data stored in the embedded storage can be deleted on the basis of an operation for releasing the connection with the USB storage, whereby work efficiency is increased even when data that should not be registered is used.","A third embodiment relates to the restoring process.  illustrates a flowchart of a process for restoring data from the USB storage to the image forming apparatus in the third embodiment.","The image forming apparatus of the third embodiment deletes restored address book data in response to an unmounting permission notification as an operation for releasing the connection with the USB storage.","That is, in the restoring process in the third embodiment, the process of step S illustrated in  is performed instead of steps S and S in the second embodiment illustrated in .","Specifically, referring to , when the restoring process starts, after the process of steps S, S, and S to S is performed similarly to the second embodiment, the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit makes the external interface enter a state in which the USB storage can be unmounted in response to the instruction to unmount the USB storage in step S. And then the deletion control unit deletes the restored address book data from the volatile storage.","Thereby, step S is completed and the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit determines whether or not the USB storage detection signal exists. If the detection signal does not exist (Yes in step S), the USB control unit determines that the USB storage has been unmounted (connection has been released) and terminates the restoring process. On the other hand, if the detection signal exists (No in step S), the process of step S is repeated.","Hence, the third embodiment has advantages similar to those in the second embodiment, and since the restored address book data is deleted in response to an unmounting permission notification as an operation for releasing the connection with the USB storage, the process procedure can be simplified.","A fourth embodiment relates to the restoring process.  illustrates a flowchart of a process for restoring data from the USB storage to the image forming apparatus in the fourth embodiment.","The image forming apparatus of the fourth embodiment deletes address book data by performing unmounting as an operation for releasing the connection with the USB storage.","That is, in the restoring process in the fourth embodiment, the process of step S illustrated in  is performed as step S illustrated in  after step S.","Specifically, referring to , when the restoring process starts, after the process of steps S, S, and S to S is performed similarly to the second embodiment, the process flow goes to step S.","Step S: The USB control unit determines whether or not the USB storage detection signal exists. If the detection signal does not exist (Yes in step S), the USB control unit determines that the USB storage has been unmounted (connection has been released) and the process flow goes to step S. On the other hand, if the detection signal exists (No in step S), the process of step S is repeated.","Step S: If the USB control unit determines that the USB storage has been unmounted, the deletion control unit deletes the restored address book data. Thereby, step S is completed and the restoring process is completed.","Hence, the fourth embodiment has advantages similar to those in the second embodiment.","Although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described above, the present disclosure is not limited to these embodiments, and various modifications are possible.","For example, although data backed up from one image forming apparatus to the USB storage is restored in the other image forming apparatus in the above-described embodiments, by registering data that a user wants to use personally in the USB storage, this data may be restored in either of the image forming apparatuses.","Further, although the volatile storage is used as the internal storage in the embodiments described above, the non-volatile storage, such as the hard disk drive that allows data to be deleted, may be used as the internal storage.","According to the present disclosure, by connecting an external storage, data in the internal storage of the image forming apparatus can be easily backed up so as to be used in another image forming apparatus.","According to the present disclosure, through connection with an external storage, data can be easily stored and used. After the use of the data, the data can be deleted on the basis of an operation for releasing the connection with the external storage, whereby work efficiency is increased even when data that should not be registered is used.","In other words, the image forming apparatus according to an embodiment of the present disclosure, through connection with an external storage, can store address book data stored in the external storage into an internal storage, and can perform various functions of the image forming apparatus using the stored address book data.","In addition, the image forming apparatus can delete the address book data read from the external storage and stored in the volatile storage on the basis of an external storage unmounting permission notification.","In this manner, the image forming apparatus, through connection with an external storage, can easily store and use necessary address book data, and after the use of the data, the address book data can be reliably deleted on the basis of an operation for releasing the connection with the external storage.","Hence, the image forming apparatus allows work efficiency to be increased even when data that should not be registered is used.","In addition, if restored address book data is stored in the volatile storage, the image forming apparatus reliably deletes the restored address book data and does not place a burden on the storage area of the volatile storage.","It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the embodiments presently described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present subject matter and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the accompanying drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A to 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
