---
title: Antenna system with self-identifying antenna
abstract: According to one embodiment disclosed herein, there is provided an antenna module including a self-identification mechanism that may be used by one or more wireless circuits for management purposes. The self-identification mechanism may, for example, take the form of an integrated circuit (IC) device or chip that stores a serial number that may function as a unique identifier for an antenna on which it is mounted or associated. In one embodiment, a wireless module, for example containing RF components for sending and receiving signals from the antenna, queries the serial number device, and acquires the serial number for the antenna. The wireless module can use the serial number for any number of purposes, and in particular to verify that the antenna connected is a compliant antenna that will operate within the range, within the limits, and/or with the performance specified for the radio circuits within the wireless module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276624&OS=09276624&RS=09276624
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09276624
owner_city: Santa CLara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111229
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION","ADDITIONAL EXAMPLES","Example 1","Example 2","Example 3","Example 4","Example 5","Example 6","Example 7","Example 8","Example 9","Example 10","Example 11","Example 12","Example 13","Example 14","Example 15","Example 16","Example 17","Example 18","Example 19","Example 20","Example 21","Example 22","Example 23","Example 24","Example 25"],"p":["This application is a U.S. National Stage Application under 35 U.S.C. 371 from International Application No. PCT\/US2011\/067913, filed Dec. 29, 2011, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present technology relates generally to the field of wireless communications, and more particularly to antennas used in wireless communications.","Regulatory compliance for a wireless device is procured with a certain antenna paired to the device. In theory, it is difficult for a user to replace the original antenna with an aftermarket antenna which offers increased performance. However, it is increasingly easy to find aftermarket antennas for both desktop PCs and notebooks PCs with (SubMiniature version A) SMA, Reverse SMA or Micro-coax connectors. Care must be taken when matching antennas with certain devices as the devices may not meet regulatory standards when paired with certain antennas. Also, antenna tuners and matching networks are being integrated into wireless modules (or antennas) to enable \u2018per device\u2019 optimization (e.g., optimizing wireless transmission characteristics per specific device) and \u2018in use\u2019 optimization (e.g., optimizing wireless transmission characteristics based upon sensed usages that would result in VSWR (voltage standing wave ratio) changes) of VSWR and efficiency for notebooks, tablets and phones. Typically a single radio module may be integrated with several different antennas based on the device form factor.","In the drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, like numerals may describe similar components in different views. Like numerals having different letter suffixes may represent different instances of similar components. The drawings illustrate generally, by way of example, but not by way of limitation, various embodiments discussed in the present document.","The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural, logical, electrical, process, and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in, or substituted for, those of other embodiments.","Disclosed in some examples are methods, devices, and machine-readable media which allow a wireless module to identify the antenna to which it is connected. Based on the connected antenna the wireless module may modify one or more parameters.","According to one embodiment, illustrated in , there is provided an antenna module  and a wireless module , wherein the antenna module  includes a built-in self-identification device, such as an integrated circuit (IC) device or chip  that stores a unique identifier , for example a 64-bit serial number for an antenna on which it is attached, mounted, fastened together, glued together, contained together, or otherwise physically paired, for example in a plastic module. More generally, the unique identifier  is alternatively referred to herein as machine-readable identification data. The wireless module  may contain radio frequency (RF) processing circuits or components, such as an RF chip  and a baseband chip . The wireless module  may query the device  and acquire the unique identifier , for example the serial number, for the antenna. This query may be done one-time at initialization of the wireless module , periodically upon detection of a change in the antenna or antenna module, or at other times.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","110","205","110","110","210","110","110"]},"Additionally, in another example embodiment, the unique identifier can be categorized in various ways (even or odd, modulo (n) (the remainder when divided by a number \u2018n\u2019), and the like), and be used to distinguish between one or many types of compliant antennas. Example antennas may include dipole, slot, monopole, loop, patch, and PIFA (planar inverted F) antenna types. These antennas may have applications in tablet computers, notebook computers, cellular telephones, smart phones, Frequency Modulation (FM) radios, Amplitude Modulation (AM) radios, televisions, or any other application in which an antenna is used to receive electromagnetic waves. The techniques presently disclosed allows for regulatory compliance of these antennas to be ensured and\/or for changes to various parameters to be made so as to ensure compliance or optimal performance. If the antenna is a compliant antenna , then no further action may need to be taken.","According to another example embodiment, also illustrated in , if () the antenna module  does not respond with the correct unique identifier, however determined by the wireless module , the module  will react with appropriate action (), for example as may be programmed in the wireless module. For example, the wireless module may throttle its power or disable itself in order to minimize the risk of functioning outside of its approved parameters (e.g., in violation of United States FCC Regulation Part 15). For instance, transmission power can be reduced, when a high gain antenna is indicated by the identification, while the transmission power can be enhanced when a weaker omni antenna is indicated by the identification.","In another embodiment illustrated in , the wireless module  may receive the identification of the connected antenna (), identify the antenna (), and use the acquired identity of the antenna to optimize various wireless configuration parameters (). In some examples, each antenna identification number or a range of identification numbers may be associated with a parameter profile. The parameter profile may include one or more parameter changes to the wireless module. Example parameter changes may include: the power level, frequency, or firmware configuration. Each target device in which the antenna is to be integrated may have a different unique identifier programmed into the connected antenna . Each different device may require different tuning based upon the different impedance characteristics of the device. Identifying the unique identifier of the antenna will allow the wireless module  to optimize the wireless configuration parameters to best suit the particular device in which it is installed. In some examples, to accomplish this, the wireless module may load a specific configuration of firmware or tunable\/switchable matching components. This allows for operation at a desired efficiency, such as a defined optimum or maximum efficiency. Various example end products may include laptops, mobile devices, other consumer products, industrial devices, household appliances, control system components, or the like.","According to one example embodiment, the antenna management functions described with respect to the figures described above and below herein, are performed by the baseband chip , which, in one embodiment, includes microprocessor system components  capable of executing one or more computer programs configured to carry out the described methodologies, and\/or other programmable circuit components that are configured to acquire the unique identifier , and perform any of the management functions herein described, including applying control signals or configuration parameters to other internal circuits of the baseband chip  or to the RF chip . In other examples, the antenna management functions may be performed by the RF chip , or other microprocessors or control logic present on the wireless module . In still other examples, the antenna module  may contain a microprocessor which may receive an expected identification number, range, or other indicator and make the necessary adjustments at the antenna side or communicate the necessary adjustment to the wireless module . Alternatively, the antenna ID can be forwarded to a computing platform separate from the wireless module , such as the microprocessor board and associated components of a computing system in the device on which the wireless module  is deployed. The management functions are then performed on the separate computing system and control and configuration signals applied back to the wireless module .","In one embodiment, for example, the device  may be a Maxim DS2401 one wire protocol chip, available from Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., of Sunnyvale, Calif. The DS2401 is an enhanced \u201csilicon serial number\u201d providing a low-cost, electronic registration number that provides an absolutely unique identity that can be determined with a minimal electronic interface, typically, a single port pin of a microcontroller. The DS2401 includes a factory-lasered, 64-bit ROM that includes a unique 48-bit serial number, an 8-bit CRC, and an 8-bit Family Code (01h). Data is transferred serially via a 1-Wire\u00ae-type protocol that requires only a single data lead and a ground return. Power for reading and writing the device is derived from the data line itself with no need for an external power source. The DS2401 is fully reverse-compatible with the DS2400 but provides an additional multi-drop capability that enables many devices to reside on a single data line. In other embodiments, any device or chip providing serial number identification capabilities may be used, such as other wireline chips, radio frequency identification (RFID) chips, bar coded chips, or any other devices having similar or different serial number identification capabilities.","According to another example embodiment illustrated in , the antenna module  and wireless module  are used on a desktop computer  having a chassis . In this embodiment, the serial number device , for example the DS2401, is supplied with a power signal  and shares the ground  with the antenna . The control signal  for the serial number device  may be sent from the wireless module  over the center conductor  of a coax cable  connecting the antenna to the module through the use of a Bias-T . In the antenna module , another Bias-T  is used to separate the low frequency control signal from the RF signal , which is routed to the antenna feed . Additional cables to supply the identification device are thus kept to a minimum.","According to another example embodiment illustrated in , the antenna module  and wireless module  are used on a laptop, notebook, tablet PC or another other computing device or computer  having case . In this embodiment, the antenna module(s)  is embedded inside the case of the laptop, in this example on a hinged cover  of the device. Otherwise, the configuration of  is similar to the configuration of .","According to another example embodiment illustrated in , a single baseband chip  and intermediate frequency chip may interface with one or more remote RF chips . In these examples, the antenna array is part of, or connected to, the RF chip. In some examples, these antenna modules  may operate at 60 GHz, and utilize phased antenna arrays. These antenna modules  require detailed calibration parameters pertaining to the calibration and operation of the antenna array  to be employed based upon the exact RF remote chip  and the particular influence of the chassis that hosts the RF chip. In some examples, the same SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) of the base band chip  may be configured to control multiple different RF remote chips . By utilizing the remote RF chip  to store a unique identifier identifying the exact antenna array and the particular host chassis, the base band chip may configure the remote RF module embedded in the chassis accordingly. In addition, the cost is reduced as an additional chip to store the unique identifier is not required as the RF chip  may be utilized.","Accordingly, with use of the antenna identification and management system herein described, it is not necessary to use obscure or difficult to procure connectors to make it harder to connect aftermarket antennas that may make the wireless solution non-compliant. These connectors can be many times more expensive compared to a generic, easy to find connector. Additionally, for embedded antennas connected to tuner modules, the ready ability to load predefined profiles based on different antenna types is advantageous. The tuning profiles are typically developed for one specific antenna model, and the ability to match the profiles automatically assures good performance and in some cases greater ease or lesser risk of mismatch of antenna to the module during assembly.","Thus, as described above, the present solution uses a serial number chip to associate each antenna with a unique identifier that can be queried by either the module or the host. With the knowledge of the exact antenna connected to it, the module  can determine its behavior, transmission and matching settings to optimize performance while maintaining regulatory compliance. Also, non-compliant antennas may result in the module lowering the output power delivered or disabling itself to minimize the risk of operating in a non-compliant state. When used with embedded antennas for laptops, the invention allows for the optimized matching between a module and any one of several types of antennas by allowing the module to alter its configuration to match a particular antenna type without requiring the maintenance of several custom SKUs for each antenna type.","According to one example embodiment, any of the above or below described software or hardware elements and functionality, may be implemented as a combination of one or more modules, as defined further herein below. Further, various methods or techniques, or certain aspects or portions thereof, may take the form of program code (i.e., instructions) embodied in tangible media, such as floppy diskettes, CD-ROMs, hard drives, or any other machine-readable storage medium wherein, when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine, such as a computer, the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers, the computing device may include a processor, a storage medium readable by the processor (including volatile and non-volatile memory and\/or storage elements), at least one input device, and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface (API), reusable controls, and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the program(s) may be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language, and combined with hardware implementations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","708","700","700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["720","712","700","704","704","714","718","716","710","710","700","706","700","700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"]},"Example computer system  includes a processor  (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU) or both), a main memory  and a static memory , which communicate with each other via a link or interconnect  (e.g., a bus). The computer system  can further include a video display unit , an alphanumeric input device  (e.g., a keyboard), and a user interface (UI) navigation device  (e.g., a mouse). In one embodiment, the video display unit , input device  and UI navigation device  are a touch screen display. The computer system  can additionally include a storage device  (e.g., a drive unit), a signal generation device  (e.g., a speaker), a network interface device  (which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas , , transceivers, or other wireless communications hardware) to connect to a network  (e.g., the internet), and one or more sensors (not shown), such as a global positioning system (GPS) sensor, compass, accelerometer, or other sensor.","The storage device  includes a machine-readable medium  on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions  (e.g., software) embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions  can also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory , static memory , and\/or within the processor  during execution thereof by the computer system , with the main memory , static memory , and the processor  also constituting machine-readable media.","While the machine-readable medium  is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium, the term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d can include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and\/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more instructions . The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term \u201cmachine-readable medium\u201d shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine-readable media include non-volatile memory, including, by way of example, semiconductor memory devices (e.g., Electrically Programmable Read-Only Memory (EPROM), Electrically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM)) and flash memory devices; magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks.","The instructions  can further be transmitted or received over a communications network  using a transmission medium via the network interface device  utilizing any one of a number of well-known transfer protocols (e.g., HTTP). Examples of communication networks include a LAN, WAN, the Internet, mobile telephone networks, Plain Old Telephone (POTS) networks, and wireless data networks (e.g., Wi-Fi, 3G, and 7G LTE\/LTE-A or WiMAX networks). The term \u201ctransmission medium\u201d shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing, encoding, or carrying instructions for execution by the machine, and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.","Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. Although examples were provided with reference to a local area wireless network configuration and a wide area internet network connection, it will be understood that communications may also be facilitated using any number of personal area networks, local area networks (LANs), and wide area networks (WANs), using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.","The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware, firmware, and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer-readable storage device, which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer-readable storage device may include any non-transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). For example, a computer-readable storage device may include read-only memory (ROM), random-access memory (RAM), magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media, flash-memory devices, and other storage devices and media. In some embodiments, the base station or the UE may include one or more processors and may be configured with instructions stored on a computer-readable storage device.","It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as modules, in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example, a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays, off-the-shelf semiconductors such as logic chips, transistors, or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays, programmable array logic, programmable logic devices, or the like. Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may, for instance, comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions, which may, for instance, be organized as an object, procedure, or function. Nevertheless, the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together, but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which, when joined logically together, comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.","Indeed, a module of executable code may be a single instruction, or many instructions, and may even be distributed over several different code segments, among different programs, and across several memory devices. Similarly, operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules, and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set, or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices, and may exist, at least partially, merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active, including agents operable to perform desired functions.","Additional examples of the presently described method, system, and device embodiments include the following, non-limiting configurations. Each of the following non-limiting examples can stand on its own, or can be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.","An antenna module comprising: an antenna; an identification circuit physically paired with the wireless antenna, the identification circuit storing machine-readable identification data and to provide the machine-readable identification data responsive to a request for the machine-readable identification data.","The antenna module of example 1, wherein the machine-readable identification data is a serial number and is used by a physically coupled wireless module to verify that the antenna is a compliant antenna.","The antenna module of any one of examples 1 and 2, wherein the request is sent over a coaxial connection between the antenna module and the wireless module along with an RF signal and wherein the wireless module includes a BIAS-T which is to separate the request from the RF signal.","The antenna module of claim , wherein the request is routed to the identification circuit and the RF signal is routed to the antenna.","A wireless module coupled via a physical connection to an antenna module including machine-readable identification information, the wireless module comprising: a hardware processor to: receive the machine-readable identification data via the physical connection from the antenna module; modify one or more parameters of the wireless module based on the received machine-readable identification data.","The wireless module of example 5, wherein the one or more parameters includes at least one of: an amplitude, a frequency, a firmware configuration, or a tuning profile.","The wireless module of any of the previous examples, comprising a radio frequency processor and a baseband processor to output a radio frequency signal to the antenna module, and wherein to modify one or more parameters of the wireless module, the hardware processor is to inhibit the output of the radio frequency signal to the antenna module.","The wireless module of any one of the previous examples, wherein the hardware processor is to modify one or more parameters of the wireless module based on the received machine-readable identification information by comparing the received machine-readable identification information to one or more expected values, and responsive to determining that the received machine-readable identification information equals one of the expected values, selecting a parameter profile which indicates modifications to the one or more parameters of the wireless module.","The wireless module of any one of the previous examples, wherein the hardware processor is to: send a request from the wireless module to the antenna module for requesting the machine-readable identification data.","The wireless module of any one of the previous examples, wherein the physical connection comprises a coaxial cable and wherein the hardware processor is to receive the machine-readable identification information over a center conductor of the coax cable, and wherein the wireless module comprises a BIAS-T, which is to separate a signal containing the machine-readable identification data from a radio frequency signal.","A method of modifying parameters of a wireless module, the method comprising: receiving at the wireless module, a machine-readable identification data from an antenna module coupled to the wireless module via a physical connection; and modifying one or more parameters of the wireless module based on the received machine-readable identification data.","The method of example 11, wherein the one or more parameters includes at least one of: an amplitude, a frequency, a firmware configuration, or a tuning profile.","The method of any one of the previous examples, wherein modifying one or more parameters of the wireless module includes inhibiting the output of a radio frequency signal generated by a radio frequency processor and a baseband processor to the antenna module.","The method of any one of the previous examples, wherein modifying one or more parameters of the wireless module based on the received machine-readable identification information comprises comparing the received machine-readable identification information to one or more expected values, and responsive to determining that the received machine-readable identification information equals one of the expected values, selecting a parameter profile which indicates modifications to the one or more parameters of the wireless module.","The method of any one of the previous examples, comprising: sending a request from the wireless module to the antenna module for requesting the machine-readable identification data.","The method of any one of the previous examples, wherein the physical connection comprises a coaxial cable and wherein the machine-readable identification information is received over a center conductor of the coax cable, and wherein a signal containing the machine-readable identification data is separated from a radio frequency signal sent over the coaxial cable by a BIAS-T.","A machine-readable medium that stores instructions which when performed by a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: receiving at a wireless module, a machine-readable identification data from an antenna module coupled to the wireless module via a physical connection; modifying one or more parameters of the wireless module based on the received machine-readable identification data.","The machine-readable medium of example 17, wherein the one or more parameters includes at least one of: an amplitude, a frequency, a firmware configuration, or a tuning profile.","The machine-readable medium of any one of the previous examples, wherein the instructions for modifying one or more parameters of the wireless module includes instructions, which when performed by the machine, cause the machine to perform the operations comprising: inhibiting the output of a radio frequency signal generated by a radio frequency processor and a baseband processor to the antenna module.","The machine-readable medium of any one of the previous examples, wherein the instructions for modifying one or more parameters of the wireless module includes instructions, which when performed by the machine, cause the machine to perform the operations comprising: comparing the received identification information to one or more expected values, and responsive to determining that the received identification information equals one of the expected values, selecting a parameter profile which indicates modifications to the one or more parameters of the wireless module.","The machine-readable medium of any one of the previous examples, wherein the instructions include instructions which when performed by the machine, cause the machine to perform the operations comprising: sending a request from the wireless module to the antenna module for requesting the machine-readable identification data.","The machine-readable medium of any one of the previous examples, wherein the identification is received over a center conductor of a coax cable coupling the wireless module to the antenna module, and wherein the wireless module separates a signal containing the machine-readable identification data from a radio frequency signal using a BIAS-T.","A wireless communication device for sending and receiving data, the wireless communication device comprising: a wireless module coupled via a physical connection to an antenna module including machine-readable identification information, the wireless module comprising a hardware processor to: receive the machine-readable identification data via the physical connection from the antenna module; modify one or more parameters of the wireless module based on the received machine-readable identification data; generate one or more outgoing wireless signals for transmission via the antenna module, a characteristic of the one or more outgoing wireless signals based upon the one or more parameters of the wireless module; and receive one or more incoming wireless signals from the antenna module; and process the one or more incoming wireless signals from the antenna module.","The wireless communication device of example 23, wherein the hardware processor is adapted to communicate within a IEEE 802.11n network by generating the one or more outgoing signals, and receiving the one or more incoming wireless signals by utilizing orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM).","The wireless communication device of any one of the previous examples, wherein a characteristic of the one or more incoming wireless signals is based upon the one or more parameters of the wireless module.","The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
