---
title: Software distribution framework
abstract: A computing device receives a notification from a server that a bundle is available for download. The bundle includes software written in a scripting language. The computing device downloads the bundle from the server and authenticates a digital signature of the bundle. The computing device installs the bundle in a user partition of the memory and modifies a path variable in an operating system of the computing device. The path variable is modified to include a location of the installed bundle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09032387&OS=09032387&RS=09032387
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09032387
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111004
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Example Frameworks","Example Dependencies","Example Processes","CONCLUSION"],"p":["Computing devices, such as tablet computing devices, wireless phones, or electronic book (\u201ceBook\u201d) reader devices, may include system software (e.g., an operating system, device drivers, and the like). System software updates may be provided to add additional features, fix bugs, or both. To verify backward compatibility, the system software updates may be tested extensively with available applications and with different hardware versions of a particular computing device. For this reason, system software updates may be released infrequently. In addition, features that benefit a particular hardware version of a computing device may be excluded from a system software update if the features are incompatible with other hardware versions of the computing device.","This disclosure describes architectures and techniques to provide a framework for distributing software to computing devices. For example, a computing device, such as a tablet computing device or an eBook reader device, may include system software (e.g., an operating system, device drivers, and the like). The system software may be stored in a system partition in the memory of the computing device while everything else, such as applications, features, and content (e.g., audio files, videos files, and the like) may be stored in a user partition. An application may include computer software that a user may interact with to perform one or more specific functions. A feature may include computer software that adds or modifies the functionality of an application. A user may interact with an application while the application may interact with one or more features. For example, an application may enable a user to read an electronic book (\u201ceBook\u201d) while a feature associated with the application may enable the user to enter and store annotations for the eBook.","The system partition may be protected to prevent the system software from being modified by the applications, features, a user of the computing device, or any combination thereof. The system partition may be modifiable under specific circumstances, such as when the system software is being updated. Applications, features, the user, or any combination thereof may be capable of modifying at least portions of the user partition. For example, the system software may provide a particular application with a portion of the user partition. The particular application may write to the portion of the user partition but not to other portions of the user partition that are used by other applications.","The system software may include a path variable that identifies locations (e.g., directories) of executable applications and features in the memory of the computing device. When a new application or a new feature is installed in a particular location of the user partition, the path variable may be updated to include the particular location of the user partition.","The computing device may be available in different versions and in different generations. For example, different versions of the computing device may have different attributes, such as a type of display (e.g., color or monochrome), an amount of installed memory (e.g., 16 G, 32 GB, 64 GB, and the like), a type of wireless interface (e.g., WiFi, code division multiple access (CDMA), global system for mobile (GSM), and the like), other attributes, or any combination thereof. Each generation of the computing device may reflect hardware components available when a particular generation of the computing device was manufactured. For example, a newer generation computing device may have a different version of a processor compared to an older generation computing device. The newer version of the processor may have a larger cache, a faster clock speed, additional core(s), other features, or any combination thereof.","When a feature is developed for inclusion in a system software update, the feature may be tested for compatibility with one or more generations of the computing device and with one or more versions of the computing device. For example, the manufacturer may support the current and previous generation of the computing device but may not support other (e.g., older) generations of the computing device. If the feature is determined to be compatible with at least some of the versions of the supported generations of the computing device, then the feature may be included in a next system software update. If the feature is incompatible with at least one supported generation and\/or version of the computing device, then the feature may be not be included in the next system software update. The time required to test for compatibility may result in system software updates being released infrequently, such as once or twice a year. This may cause users to wait for bug fixes or new features or may cause delays in third party developers developing applications that utilize the new features. In addition, a feature that is capable of being executed on a newer generation computing device may be excluded from the system software update because it is incompatible with older generation computing devices.","Software updates, bug fixes, applications, features, or any combination thereof may be provided to users by installing them in the user partition. One or more of the software updates, the bug fixes, the applications, or the features may be written using a scripting language, such as Java\u00ae. The path variable in the system software may be updated to include the installation location(s) in the user partition. For example, a user may instruct a server to initiate acquiring an application. The server may determine that the user has a second generation computing device and create an application bundle for use with the second generation computing device. The application bundle includes the application along with any (e.g., zero or more) prerequisite applications and any (e.g., zero or more) prerequisite features associated with the application. For example, if the application has no associated prerequisite applications and no associated prerequisite features, then the application bundle may include just the application. The server may include in the application bundle any prerequisite applications associated with the application and any prerequisite features associated with the application. For example, the user may purchase an update (e.g., version two) of a particular application that has version one of the particular application as an associated prerequisite application. To illustrate, an installer may install version two of the particular application after determining that version one of the particular application is currently installed. The prerequisite applications and prerequisite features included in the application bundle may be determined based at least partially on the generation of the computing device and the version of the computing device. Thus, prerequisite applications and prerequisite features that are compatible with the user's computing device may be included in the application bundle. To illustrate, a second generation computing device may include capabilities (e.g., hardware and\/or software) to determine a location of the computing device using a technology such as global positioning satellites (GPS), while a first generation computing device may not include these capabilities. Applications and features included in an application bundle for the second generation computing device may include particular applications and particular features that provide additional services based on location information while applications and features included in an application bundle for the first generation computing device may exclude the particular applications and particular features.","In addition, software update bundles may be provided based on a configuration of the hardware and software of a computing device. A server that provides the software update bundles may determine the configuration of the hardware and the software (e.g., a system software version, a version number of each installed application, and a version number of each installed feature) of the computing device. In some instances, the server may maintain a catalog of the configuration of the computing device and update the configuration when the applications, features, system software, or combinations thereof are downloaded. In some instances, the server may determine the configuration of the computing device whenever a download is initiated by the computing device. Thus, a software update bundle may be created based on the configuration of each computing device, such that a first software update bundle for a first device may be different from a second software update bundle for a second computing device. For example, a particular application may use a portion of the system software that includes a bug. Other applications may not use that portion of the system software. Thus, a first software update bundle for users who have acquired the particular application may include a feature that addresses the bug. Other users may be provided with a second software update bundle that does not include the feature that addresses the bug.","When a new system software update is provided, the new system software update may include new features and\/or bug fixes that address bugs in the system software. When the new system software update is installed, the installation process may include removing features from the user partition that are included in the new system software. For example, a feature may initially be provided in a software update bundle and installed in the user partition. The feature may add new functionality to the system software, address a bug in the system software, or both. Later, when a system software update that includes the feature is installed, the feature may be removed from the user partition.","The application bundles and software update bundles may use a digital rights management (DRM) encoding mechanism to prevent unauthorized usage or distribution of the bundles. For example, a user may acquire an application and download a corresponding application bundle. The application bundle may be encoded using DRM. The DRM encoding may enable the application bundle to be installed on a computing device that is associated with the user and prevent the installation of the application bundle on other computing devices. For example, the DRM encoding mechanism may include tamper-proof metadata identifying a particular user or user-device(s) associated with the particular user on which the application bundle or software bundle may be installed.","A digital signature may be included in each application bundle or software update bundle to identify a creator or author of each bundle. The computing device may authenticate the digital signature prior to installation of each application bundle or software update bundle. The application bundle or software update bundle may not be installed if the digital signature cannot be authenticated.","Accordingly, the architectures and techniques described herein provide a flexible and automated system to enable providing application bundles and software update bundles that may be tailored to the specific hardware and software configuration of each computing device. The application bundles and software update bundles may be installed in the user partition. A path variable in the system software may be updated to include locations where contents (e.g., applications and\/or features) of the application bundles or the software bundles were installed in the user partition. Updating the path variable may enable the system software to locate and execute the installed applications and\/or features. The application bundles and software updates may be provided more frequently compared to the frequency with which system software updates are provided. At least one of the features and\/or applications included in an application bundle or software update bundle may be included in a new system software update. During installation of the new system software update, previously installed features and\/or applications that are included in the new system software update may be removed from the user partition of the memory of the computing device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","106"]},"The computing device  may include one or more processors and a memory to store instructions that are executable by the one or more processors. For example, one or more applications from the applications library , one or more features from the feature library , or any combination thereof may be installed in the computing device . The computing device  may include an application to view and interact with an electronic book (\u201ceBook\u201d).","The server  may include one or more processors  and a memory . The server  may host a site that provides items (e.g., tangible items, downloadable items, subscription-based items, service-based items, and the like) for acquisition. The memory  may include an applications library , dependencies , feature library , and a download area . In some implementations, the server  may include multiple servers and the contents of the memory  may distributed across the multiple servers. For example, a first server of the multiple servers may host the applications library , a second server of the multiple servers may host the feature library , and a third server of the multiple servers may host the download area . The applications library  may include applications, such as the application , that may be downloaded to and executed in a computing device, such as the computing device . Based on how the application  is implemented, the application  may be a standalone application or the application  may have one or more prerequisite applications . For example, the application  may use at least a portion of the functionality provided by the one or more prerequisite applications  and therefore have a dependency to the prerequisite applications . The dependencies  may include dependencies between a particular application and other applications in the applications library , such as the dependency between the application  and the prerequisite applications .","The feature library  may include one or more features that may be downloaded to and executed in a computing device, such as the computing device . The features in the feature library  may provide additional functionality to one or more applications that have been installed on the computing device . For example, the feature library  may include a device capabilities application programming interface (API), concurrency APIs, extended markup language (XML) parsers, java script object notation (JSON) parsers, rich text layout components, wireless connection type identifier (e.g., identify whether a wireless connection is WiFi, WiMax\u00ae, CDMA, or GSM), remote (e.g., cloud) computing services, device type identifier, in-application purchase, other features, or any combination thereof.","Based on how the application  is implemented, the application  may be a standalone application or the application  may have one or more prerequisite features . For example, the application  may use at least a portion of the functionality provided by the one or more prerequisite features  and therefore have a dependency to the prerequisite features . The dependencies  may include dependencies between a particular application and features in the feature library , such as the dependency between the application  and the prerequisite features . Thus, the application  may be a standalone application, the application  may have a dependency on the prerequisite applications , the application  may have a dependency on the prerequisite features , or the application  may have a dependency on the both the prerequisite applications  and the prerequisite features .","The dependencies  may include information identifying the applications in the application library  that are compatible with a particular generation of the computing device , a particular version of the computing device , a current system software of the computing device , a current set of applications that are installed in the computing device , a current set of features that are installed in the computing device , other hardware or software characteristics of the computing device , or any combination thereof.","One or more of the applications in the applications library  or one or more of the features in the feature library  may be written using a scripting language, such as Java\u00ae. For example, a development kit may be provided to enable developers to create applications or features using the scripting language. In some instances, software developers may create features and make the features available for acquisition by other developers. For example, a first software developer may create a feature that provides a game engine. A second software developer may acquire (e.g., purchase or lease) the game engine from the first software developer and develop a game that uses the game engine.","In operation, a user may send a request  to acquire the application . The request  may be sent from the computing device , from another computing device associated with the user, or from a second server. For example, the server  may include multiple servers (e.g., physical servers, virtual servers, or both), in which a first server processes an order from a user to acquire the application  via a merchant site. The first server may send the request  to a second server (e.g., the server ) to instruct the second server to prepare the application bundle . Thus, the request  may be associated with the user, but may be received from the computing device , from another computing device associated with the user, or another server. In response, the server  may create an application bundle . The application bundle  may include the application . Based on the dependencies  that are associated with the application , the application bundle  may include the prerequisite applications , the prerequisite features , or both. In some implementations, the application bundle  may include multiple bundles. For example, the application bundle  may include a first bundle that includes the application , a second bundle that includes any prerequisite applications , or a third bundle that includes any of the prerequisite features .","In some implementations, the application bundle  may include a digital signature . In some implementations, the digital signature  may include multiple digital signatures, such as a digital signature for each application or feature in the application bundle . For example, the digital signature  may include a digital signature for the application , a digital signature for each of the prerequisite applications , a digital signature for each of the prerequisite features , or any combination thereof. The digital signature may identify an author, a provider, a manufacturer, or other characteristic of a feature or an application. For example, a digital signature associated with each application or feature in the application bundle  may identify their respective authors while the digital signature  may identify a provider (e.g., a merchant) of the application bundle .","In some implementations, the contents of the application bundle  may be encoded using a DRM encoding  to prevent unauthorized usage. For example, the DRM encoding  may enable a user who acquires the application  to install the application bundle  in the computing device  and prevent the application bundle  from being installed in other computing devices.","After creating the application bundle , the server  may place the application bundle  in the download area . In , the download area  is depicted as part of the memory  of the server . However, in some implementations, the download area  may be in a memory of another server, such as a download server. The server  may send a notification  to the computing device  via the network  to notify the computing device  that the application bundle  is available.","In some implementations, in response to receiving the notification , the computing device  may automatically (e.g., without human interaction) initiate download of the application bundle  from the download area . In other implementations, in response to receiving the notification , the computing device  may notify a user that the application bundle  is available for download, and initiate download of the application bundle  in response to a download instruction from the user.","In some implementations, after downloading the application bundle , the computing device may automatically initiate installation of the application bundle . In other implementations, after downloading the application bundle , the computing device may notify the user that the application bundle  has been downloaded and initiate installation of the application bundle  in response to an install instruction from the user.","Thus, a computing device may send the request  to acquire the application . Based on the dependencies , the server  may determine whether the application  has any prerequisite applications or prerequisite features. If the application  has one or more prerequisite applications, the server  may include the prerequisite applications  in the application bundle . If the application  has one or more prerequisite features, the server  may include the prerequisite features  in the application bundle . The  server may include a digital signature  in the application bundle  that identifies an author of the application bundle . The server may  encode the application bundle  (and its contents) using the DRM encoding . After creating the application bundle , the server  may inform the computing device  that the application bundle  is available for download by sending the notification  to the computing device . The memory  may include instructions  that are executable by the one or more processors  to perform the various functions of the server  as described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","102","104","106"]},"The memory  may include software updates, such as a software update , that may be downloaded and installed in a computing device, such as the computing device . Based on how the software update  is implemented, the software update  may be a standalone update or the software update  may have one or more prerequisite applications , one or more prerequisite features , one or more prerequisite software updates, or any combination thereof. For example, the software update  may use at least a portion of the functionality provided by the one or more prerequisite applications  and may therefore have a dependency to the prerequisite applications . The application  may use at least a portion of the functionality provided by the one or more prerequisite features  and may therefore have a dependency to the prerequisite features .","The dependencies  may include information identifying the applications in the application library  that are compatible with a particular generation of the computing device , a particular version of the computing device , a current system software of the computing device , a current set of applications that are installed in the computing device , a current set of features that are installed in the computing device , other hardware or software characteristics of the computing device , or any combination thereof.","In operation, the server  may identify characteristics of the computing device , such as a generation of the computing device , a version of the computing device , a hardware configuration of the computing device , a software configuration of the computing device , or any combination thereof. For example, the hardware configuration may identify particular hardware components that are available in the computing device . The software configuration may include information about system software components, applications, features, or any combination thereof that are installed in the computing device . The server  may identify the characteristics of the computing device  in response to receiving a request (e.g., the request  of ) for the server  to determine whether the software update  is available or to make the software update  available for download. In some implementations, the server  may determine that the software update  is available in response to receiving the request  to download the application .","The server  may create a software update bundle  based on the characteristics of the computing device . The software update bundle  may include the software update . Based on the dependencies  that are associated with the software update , the software update bundle  may include the prerequisite applications , the prerequisite features , or both.","In some implementations, the software update bundle  may include a digital signature . In some implementations, the digital signature  may include multiple digital signatures, such as a digital signature for each application or feature in the software update bundle . For example, the digital signature  may include a digital signature for the software update , a digital signature for each of the prerequisite applications , a digital signature for each of the prerequisite features , or any combination thereof. The digital signature may identify an author, a provider, a manufacturer, or other characteristic of a feature or an application. For example, a digital signature associated with each application or feature in the software update bundle  may identify their respective authors while the digital signature  may identify a provider (e.g., a merchant) of the software update .","In some implementations, the contents of the software update bundle  may be encoded using a DRM encoding  to prevent unauthorized usage. For example, the DRM encoding  may enable a user who acquires the software update bundle  to install the software update bundle  in the computing device  and prevent the software update bundle  from being installed in other computing devices.","After creating the software update bundle , the server  may place the software update bundle  in the download area . In , the download area  is depicted as part of the memory  of the server . However, in some implementations, the download area  may be in a memory of another server, such as a download server. The server  may send a notification  to the computing device  via the network  to notify the computing device  that the software update bundle  is available.","In some implementations, in response to receiving the notification , the computing device  may automatically (e.g., without human interaction) initiate download of the software update bundle  from the download area . In other implementations, in response to receiving the notification , the computing device  may notify a user that the software update bundle  is available for download, and initiate download of the software update bundle  in response to a download instruction from the user.","In some implementations, after downloading the software update bundle , the computing device may automatically initiate installation of the software update bundle . In other implementations, after downloading the software update bundle , the computing device may notify the user that the software update bundle  has been downloaded and initiate installation of the software update bundle  in response to an install instruction from the user.","Thus, based on the dependencies , the server  may determine any prerequisite applications or prerequisite features for the software update . If the software update  has one or more prerequisite applications, the server  may include the prerequisite applications  in the software update bundle . If the software update  has one or more prerequisite features, the server  may include the prerequisite features  in the software update bundle . The  server may include a digital signature  in the software update bundle  that identifies an author of the application bundle . The server may  encode the software update bundle  (and its contents) using the DRM encoding . After creating the software update bundle , the server  may inform the computing device  that the software update bundle  is available for download by sending the notification  to the computing device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","102","104","106"]},"The computing device  may include one or more processors  and a memory . The memory  may include multiple partitions, such as a system partition  and a user partition . The system partition  may include system software, such as an operating system . The operating system  may include a path  that identifies locations (e.g., directories) of applications and features in the memory  of the computing device . The operating system  may include one or more installers , such as a system software update (e.g., operating system) installer, a feature installer, an application installer, an application bundle installer, a software update installer, or any combination thereof.","The system partition  may be a protected portion of the memory that can be altered (e.g., written to) only under specific conditions and\/or by specific installers. For example, a system software update installer may be granted permission to write to the system partition  during a system software update. As another example, a feature installer or an application installer may be granted permission to modify the path  during installation of a feature or an application, respectively. In some implementations, a particular installer may use other installers from the installers . For example, an application bundle installer may call on a feature installer to install the features included in an application bundle. As another example, a software update installer may call on a feature installer to install features included in a software update bundle or call on an application installer to install applications included in the software update bundle.","The user partition  may include one or more directories, such as a content directory , an application directory , and a feature directory . The content directory  may include one or more media content items, such as a first media content  item and a second media content  item. For example, the media content  and  items may include an eBook, audio content, video content, multimedia content, and the like. The application directory  may be a location in which one or more applications, such as a first application  and a second application , may be installed. The feature directory  may be a location in which one or more features, such as a first feature  and a second feature , may be installed.","The memory  of the server  may include media content, such as the media content , the media content , and a media content , that is available for acquisition. The memory  of the server  may include one or more applications, such as the first application , the second application , and a third application , that are available for acquisition. The memory  of the server  may include one features, such as the first feature , the second feature , and a third feature , that are available for acquisition.","The memory  may include the dependencies  and user device configuration data . The user device configuration data  may include information associated with one or more computing devices, such as the computing device . For example, the user device configuration data  may include operating system data , application data , feature data , hardware (H\/W) configuration data  or combinations thereof. The operating system data  may include information associated with the operating system , such as which version of the operating system  is currently installed in the computing device . The application data  may include information identifying the applications (e.g., the applications  and ) that are installed in the computing device . The feature data  may include information identifying the features (e.g., the features  and ) that are installed in the computing device . The hardware configuration data  may include information about hardware included in the computing device , such as a hardware generation, a hardware version (e.g., color or monochrome display, GPS capabilities, and the like), other types of hardware that is installed (e.g., one or more cameras), or combinations thereof.","In operation, a user associated with the computing device  may initiate acquisition of an application, such as the third application . In response, the server  may create the application bundle . The application bundle  may include one or more applications , such as the third application . If the third application  has prerequisite applications, such as the prerequisite applications  of , the application bundle  may include the prerequisite applications in the applications . If the third application  has prerequisite features, such as the prerequisite features  of , the application bundle  may include one or more features . In some cases, the application bundle  may include the signature  to identify an author or creator of the application bundle . In some instances, the contents (e.g., the applications , the features , the signature  or combinations thereof) of the application bundle  may be encoded using the DRM encoding . After creating the application bundle , the server  may notify the computing device  that the application bundle  is available for download.","The computing device  may initiate download of the application bundle  from the server . After the download is complete, the DRM encoding  may be decoded, the signature  may be authenticated, or both actions may be performed. One or more of the installers  may be used to install the contents of the application bundle . For example, an application installer from the installers  may install the applications  in the application directory  and update the path  to include the installation location(s) of the applications . The installation locations of the applications  may be subdirectories of the application directory . For example, the first application  may be installed in a first subdirectory of the application directory  and the second application  may be installed in a second subdirectory of the application directory . A feature installer from the installers  may install the features  in the feature directory  and update the path  to include the installation location(s) of the features . The installation locations of the features  may be subdirectories of the feature directory . For example, the first feature  may be installed in a first subdirectory of the feature directory  and the second feature  may be installed in a second subdirectory of the feature directory .","The server  may determine that a software update  is available for the computing device . For example, when the computing device  initiates acquisition of an application, the server  may identify the computing device , locate the corresponding user device configuration data , and determine whether the software update  is compatible with the computing device  based on the user device configuration data . In response to determining that the software update  is compatible with the computing device , the server  may create the software update bundle  that includes the software update . In some cases, the signature  may be included in the software update bundle  to identify a creator of the software update . In some instances, the DRM encoding  may be included in the software update bundle  to prevent unauthorized usage. The software update  may include one or more applications, one or more features, other software that is compatible with the computing device , or combinations thereof. After creating the software update bundle , the server  may notify the computing device  that the software update bundle  is available for download.","The computing device  may initiate download of the software update bundle  from the server . After the download is complete, the DRM encoding  may be decoded and\/or the signature  may be authenticated. One or more of the installers  may be used to install the software update . For example, a software update installer from the installers  may install the software update . If the software update  includes one or more features, the software update installer may call a feature installer to install the one or more features in the feature directory . If the software update  includes one or more applications, the software update installer may call an application installer to install the one or more applications in the feature directory . If the software update  includes an operating system update, the software update installer may call an operating system update installer to install the operating system update in the system partition .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["400","114","114","402","122","124","404","406","102","114","122","124","404","406","122","124"]},"The prerequisite applications  may identify applications from the applications library  that are used by the particular application or software update . The prerequisite features  may identify features from the feature library  that are used by the particular application or software update . The prerequisite system software  may identify system software that is used by the particular application or software update . The prerequisite hardware  may identify hardware characteristics of the computing device  that are compatible with the particular application or software update . For example, the prerequisite hardware  may identify particular generations of the computing device  that are compatible with the particular application or software update . The prerequisite hardware  may identify particular versions of the computing device  that are compatible with the particular application or software update . For example, different versions of the computing device  may have different hardware characteristics, such as an amount of memory, a type of display (e.g., color or monochrome), particular capabilities (e.g., GPS capable), and the like.","In , the first application  has none of the prerequisite applications , none of the prerequisite features , uses a first system software, and may be compatible with a first generation of the computing device  that has a monochrome display. The second application  may use the first application , none of the prerequisite applications , use the first system software, and may be compatible with a second generation of the computing device that has a color display. The third application  may use none of the prerequisite applications , use a first feature, use the first system software, and may be compatible with all hardware generations and versions.","The fourth application  may use the second application , use the first feature and a second feature, use a second system software, and may be compatible with a second generation of the computing device  with at least 32 gigabytes (GB) of memory. The fifth application  may use the first application  and the second application , none of the prerequisite features , use a third system software, and may be compatible with all versions and all generations of the computing device . The sixth application  may use none of the prerequisite applications , none of the prerequisite features , use the first system software, and may be compatible with all generations of the computing device  that are GPS capable (e.g., include hardware that can use GPS satellites to determine a location of the computing device ).","The first software update  may use none of the prerequisite applications , use a third feature, use the first system software, and may be compatible with all versions and all generations of the computing device . The second software update  may use none of the prerequisite applications , use the first software update , use the first system software, and may be compatible with all generations of the computing device  that have a color display.","The dependencies  may be used by the server  to identify applications from the application library  and to identify features from the feature library  to include in the application bundle  or the software update bundle . In this way, the application bundle  or the software update bundle  may include applications and features that are compatible with a particular computing device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIGS. 5-7","FIGS. 5-7","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["500","600","700","102","104"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["500","500","104"]},"At , a request is received from a user device (e.g., the computing device  of ) to acquire an application. At , an application bundle is created that includes the application. For example, in , the server  may create the application bundle  that includes the application  in response to receiving the request  from the computing device . In addition to the application, the application bundle may include any prerequisite software components (e.g., prerequisite features, prerequisite application, or both) associated with the application.","At  a determination is made whether one or more prerequisite applications are associated with the application. At , the one or more prerequisite applications are included in the application bundle if the application has the one or more prerequisite applications. For example, in , the server  may select the perquisite applications  from the applications library  for inclusion in the application bundle  based on the dependencies . In some cases, particular versions (e.g., version one, version two, and the like) of the prerequisite applications may be identified and included in the application bundle . If no prerequisite applications are associated with the application, then no prerequisite applications are included in the application bundle.","At , a determination is made whether one or more prerequisite features are associated with the application. At , the one or more prerequisite features are included in the application bundle if the application has the one or more prerequisite features. For example, in , the server  may select the perquisite features  from the feature library  for inclusion in the application bundle  based on the dependencies . In some cases, particular versions of the prerequisite features may identified and included in the application bundle . If no prerequisite features are associated with the application, then no prerequisite features are included in the application bundle.","At , the user device may be notified that the application bundle is available for download. For example, in , the server  may send the notification  to the computing device  to notify the computing device  that the application bundle  is available for download.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["600","600","104"]},"At , a software update for a user device (e.g., the computing device  of ) is identified. At , a software bundle is created that includes the software update. For example, in , the server  may determine that the software update  is available for the computing device  based on the user device configuration data . The server  may create the software update bundle  if the software update  is available.","At  a determination is made whether one or more prerequisite features are associated with the software update. At , the one or more prerequisite features are included in the software bundle if the software update has the one or more prerequisite features. If there are no prerequisite features, then no features are included in the software update. For example, in , the server  may select the prerequisite features  from the feature library  for inclusion in the software bundle  based on the dependencies . In some cases, particular versions of the prerequisite features may be included in the software update bundle . For example, a particular prerequisite feature may have three different versions. One of the versions of the particular prerequisite feature may be chosen based on the hardware capabilities and the installed software (e.g., system software, installed applications, installed features, other hardware\/software characteristics, or any combination thereof).","At , a digital signature that identifies a provider of the software update may be included in the software update bundle. For example, the digital signature  may be included in the application bundle  of  or the software update bundle  of .","At , the software update bundle may be encoded to enable DRM and thereby prevent unauthorized usage.","At , the software update bundle may be provided for download to the user device . For example, in , the server may send the notification  to the computing device . In some implementations, the notification may cause the computing device  to automatically download and install the software update bundle . In other implementations, the computing device  may notify a user that the software update bundle  is available for download or installation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 1-3"],"b":["700","700","102"]},"At , a notification is received from a server that a bundle is available for download. The bundle may include software written in a scripting language. For example, the bundle may be the application bundle  of  or the software update bundle  of .","At  download of the bundle is initiated. For example, the computing device  may initiate download of the application bundle  of  or the software update bundle  of .","At , a digital signature of the bundle may be authenticated. For example, in , one of the installers  may authenticate the signature .","At , features and\/or applications that are included in the bundle may be identified. For example, in , one of the installers  may identify the applications  or the features  included in the application bundle . The one of the installers  may identify the software update  and determine whether the software update  includes one or more features, one or more applications, or a combination of features and applications.","At , a feature installer may be instructed to install the features that are included in the bundle to a feature directory of a user partition in a memory of the user device. At , an application installer may be instructed to install the applications that are included in the bundle to an application directory of the user partition in the memory of the user device. For example, in , the installers  may include a software update installer, an application installer, and a feature installer. The software update installer may instruct the application installer to install applications included in the software update  and instruct the feature installer to install features included in the software update .","At  a path variable may be modified to include locations of the installed features or locations of the installed applications. For example, in , the path  may be modified to include subdirectories of the application directory  where the applications  were installed or subdirectories of the feature directory  where the features  were installed.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather, the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The detailed description is set forth with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures, the left-most digit(s) of a reference number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. The use of the same reference numbers in different figures indicates similar or identical items or features.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
