---
title: Überfeed
abstract: In one embodiment, a computing device may collect a plurality of information items of a plurality of types relevant to a user; rank the plurality of information items based on their respective degrees of relevance to the user; construct an information feed that includes the plurality of information items in an order of their respective ranks; and send the information feed to a user device associated with the user for presentation of the plurality of information items to the user in the order of their respective ranks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183573&OS=09183573&RS=09183573
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09183573
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110603
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This disclosure generally relates to pushing information to user devices and more specifically relates to compiling information relevant to a specific user from multiple sources and pushing the compiled information to the user's device.","In network communications, there are two ways to send information in the form of a communication from one device to another device: push and pull. With push technology, the request for the communication transaction is initiated by the sending device. That is, the sending device \u201cpushes\u201d the communication (i.e., information), so to speak, to the receiving device. In this case, the sending device may be considered the active party and the receiving device may be considered the passive party in the transaction. In contrast, with pull technology, the request for the communication transaction is initiated by the receiving device. That is, the receiving device \u201cpulls\u201d the communication (i.e., information), so to speak, from the sending device. In this case, the sending device may be considered the passive party and the receiving device may be considered the active party in the transaction.","This disclosure generally relates to pushing information to user devices and more specifically relates to compiling information relevant to a specific user from multiple sources and pushing the compiled information to the user's device.","In particular embodiments, a computing device may collect a plurality of information items of a plurality of types relevant to a user; rank the plurality of information items based on their respective degrees of relevance to the user; construct an information feed that includes the plurality of information items in an order of their respective ranks; and send the information feed to a user device associated with the user for presentation of the plurality of information items to the user in the order of their respective ranks.","These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.","This disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However, this disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances, well known process steps and\/or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure this disclosure. In addition, while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments, it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary, the description is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.","In network communications, one device may \u201cpush\u201d information or data, in the form of a communication, to another device. With push technology, the sending device typically initiates the communication transaction and may, in some cases, transmit the communication to the receiving device without obtaining a permission from the receiving device first. Push technology may be used under various circumstances. For example, in a client-server environment, a server may push communications to a client. In this case, the client may be a device associated with a user (i.e., a user device), such as, for example and without limitation, a desktop computer, a game console, or a mobile device (e.g., a mobile telephone, a smart phone, a tablet computer, a personal digital assistant (PDA), etc.) capable of wire-line or wireless communications, and the server may push communications, sent over a computer or communication network, to the user device.","In particular embodiments, a social-networking system implemented, for example, as a social-networking website, may push communications to the client devices associated with its users. A social network, in general, is a social structure made up of entities, such as individuals or organizations, that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships, such as friendship, kinship, common interest, financial exchange, dislike, or relationships of beliefs, knowledge, or prestige. In more recent years, social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social-networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social-networking websites. Such social-networking websites enable their members, who are commonly referred to as website users, to perform various social activities. For example, the social-networking website operated by Facebook, Inc. at www.facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails, instant messages, or blog postings, organize social events, share photos, receive news of their friends or interesting events, play games, etc.","There are various types of communications that may be pushed to a user device, such as, for example and without limitation, system update messages, advertisements, alerts, user account notices, social-networking messages, service agreement updates, news, application information, or a combination of different types of communications. This disclosure contemplates any applicable types of communications. The content of the individual communications may vary. In particular embodiments, a communication pushed to a user device may be referred to as a \u201cpush notification\u201d. Examples of push notifications may include, without limitation, Short Message Service (SMS) notifications and news feeds.","In particular embodiments, given a specific user (e.g., a user of a social-networking system), various types of information relevant to the user (e.g., relevant to the user himself or relevant to the user's life) obtained from multiple sources may be mixed and combined into a single, yet comprehensive information feed, which may be referred to as a \u201c\u00fcberfeed\u201d. The term \u201c\u00fcber\u201d is a prefix originated from German, which may convey the meaning of \u201cincreased elevation or quantity\u201d, \u201csuperiority\u201d, or \u201cexcessive degree\u201d. Thus, a \u00fcberfeed may include many different types and pieces of information obtained from many different sources. In particular embodiments, the specific informational content contained in a \u00fcberfeed is user specific. That is, the information contained in a \u00fcberfeed constructed for one user may differ from the information contained in a \u00fcberfeed constructed for another user. In addition, the specific informational content contained in a \u00fcberfeed constructed for a specific user may also be time and\/or location specific. A \u00fcberfeed may thus provide a single information feed (i.e., a single information source) that includes all types of information relevant to the user. Consequently, the user only needs to look to one information source for all the information he may need.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},"In particular embodiments, given a specific user of a social-networking system, information relevant to the user may be obtained from multiple sources, as illustrated in STEP  of . For example, as illustrated in , there may be any number of information sources  connected, directly or indirectly (e.g., over computer or communication networks), to a \u00fcberfeed server . Each information source  may provide some type or types of information, and this disclosure contemplates any applicable type of information. Examples of the different types of information supplied by various information sources  may include, without limitation, news (e.g., news feed), notices, advertisements, network content (e.g., information publicly available on the Internet), messages (e.g., email or SMS), social-networking information (e.g., information associated with the social-networking system, such as status of the user's social connections, social events, etc.), web-based applications (e.g., online games), the user's private or personal information (e.g., information stored on the user's device, such as the contact information of the user's family and friends stored in the user's address book), and so on. In particular embodiments, \u00fcberfeed server  may gather and collect any or all available information from the corresponding information sources . In some cases, \u00fcberfeed server  may pull the informational data from some information sources  as needed, while in other cases, some information sources  may push the information data to \u00fcberfeed server  from time to time. For example, \u00fcberfeed server  may subscribe to multiple RSS (Really Simple Syndication) feeds, which may include blog entries, news headlines, audio, video, etc., from various feed publishers.","In particular embodiments, the information may be organized into two categories: deterministic and non-deterministic. In particular embodiments, deterministic information is not much affected by the passage of time (i.e., it is not time sensitive). Deterministic information remains available and present regardless of how much time has passed since the information has first come into existence. It is persistent until the user has dealt with it. For example, an email or SMS may be considered deterministic information. The email or SMS remains in the user's inbox until the user has deleted it, with or without reading it first. On the other hand, non-deterministic information is more affected by the passage of time (i.e., it is time sensitive). Non-deterministic information may become irrelevant or obsolete after some period of time has passed since the information has first come into existence, and thus may go away even if the user has not yet dealt with it. Often, the longer the time has passed, the less relevant or important the information becomes. For example, a news story may be considered non-deterministic information. When the news story has first come into existence (i.e., when the subject matter of the news story has just taken place), the news story is likely to be very important and thus very interesting. However, as time passes, the effect of the subject matter of the news story gradually decreases. As a result, the news story may become less and less important and interesting. As another example, information about a social event (e.g., time, location, attendees, etc.) may also be considered non-deterministic information. Before and up to the time the social event takes place, the information may be important to its attendees. However, after the social event has completed, the information may become obsolete.","What specific pieces of information are considered relevant to the user may depend on many factors, and this disclosure contemplates any applicable relevance factor. In some cases, the information may be directly or personally related to the user. For example, messages (e.g., emails or SMS) sent to the user are certainly relevant to the user. As another example, if the user is invited to a social event, then information about the event is relevant to the user. As a third example, if a friend of the user's has updated her status or information, the user may need to be aware of the update. In other cases, even though the information may not be directly related to the user, it may nevertheless be considered relevant to the user. For example, if the user is interested in sports, then some sport news stories may be relevant to the user even though the user is not directly connected with or does not participate in the actual events of the news stories. As another example, if the user is an environmental activist, then research results on climate change may be relevant to the user even though the user is not personally involved with the research projects.","In some cases, a piece of information may be considered relevant to the user at one time but not at another time (i.e., relevancy is time sensitive). For example, suppose that the user lives in San Francisco but is to travel to New York City for a week. Shortly before and during the user's trip, information about New York City (e.g., weather, transportation system, restaurants, etc.) may be relevant to the user, while at other times (e.g., after the trip has been completed), the user may not be interested in the information about New York City.","Similarly, in some cases, a piece of information may be considered relevant to the user while the user is at one location but not while the user is at another location (i.e., relevancy is location sensitive). Again, with the above example, while the user is in New York City, the user may be interested in the information about New York City. But when the user is in San Francisco, the user may be interested in the information about San Francisco, and may not be concerned with New York City.","In particular embodiments, any information known about the user may be used to help determine whether a piece of information is relevant to the user. For example and without limitation, the user's demographic information (e.g., age, gender, family status, profession, education, financial status, address, etc.), interests and hobbies, social connections, online activities, current location, etc. as well as the current time may be used to help determine whether a piece of information is relevant to the user.","In particular embodiments, the location of the user device may help determine the current location of the user himself, since the user is typically with his device. For example, if the user device is a mobile device, then the mobile device may provide location sensor data (e.g., Global Positioning System (GPS) data) that may be used to determine the current location of the mobile device, and consequently the current location of the user. If the user device is not a mobile device (e.g., a desktop computer), then the location of the user device is relatively fixed and may be known ahead of time (e.g., the desktop computer is located in the user's office or home). In addition, the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the user device may also be used to determine the current location of the user device.","In particular embodiments, as the user is a member of the social-networking system, information relevant to the user may be determined from information associated with the social-networking system. A social-networking system may contain a vast amount of information related to its users. Such information is not limited to the social connections of the individual users, but may include, for example and without limitation, demographical information, network or social activities, behavior profiles, and personal preferences, interests, or hobbies of the individual users. Particular embodiments may represent the information contained in a social-networking system using a graph that may have any number of nodes and edges, an example of which is illustrated in .","In graph  illustrated in , each node may represent an entity, which may be human (e.g., user of the social-networking system) or non-human (e.g., location, event, action, business, object, message, post, image, web page, news feed, etc.). Two nodes are connected with an edge if the two nodes are related in some way (i.e., there is a relationship between the two nodes). Example cases when two nodes in graph  may be related and thus connected with an edge may include, without limitation, (1) the two nodes represent two users of a social-networking system respectively, and the two users are socially connected (e.g., friends of each other); (2) the two nodes represent a user of the social-networking system and an event respectively, and the user has attended the event; (3) the two nodes represent a user of the social-networking system and a location, and the user has been to the location; (4) the two nodes represent a user of the social-networking system and the user has interacted with (e.g., viewed) the web page; (5) the two nodes represent an event and a location respectively, and the event is held at the location; (6) the two nodes represent a user of the social-networking system and an image (e.g., a digital photograph) respectively, and the user is in the image; (7) the two nodes represent a user of the social-networking system and a product (e.g., a mobile telephone) respectively, and the user owns and uses the product; and (8) the two nodes represent a user of the social-networking system and a software application (e.g., a web-based game) respectively, and the user uses the application (e.g., plays the game). A connection may exist between two humans, a human and a non-human entity, and two non-human entities. Any type of relationship between two human or non-human entities may result in a connection between the two entities.","In graph , when there is an edge between two specific nodes, the two nodes may be considered directly related. For example, edge A connects nodes A and B, and thus nodes A and B are directly related. Similarly, edge B connects nodes B and C, and thus nodes B and C are directly related. When there is no edge between two particular nodes, the two nodes may still be considered indirectly related. For example, there is no edge directly connecting nodes A and C; however, nodes A and C may still be considered indirectly related through node B.","With respect to node A, node B has a closer relationship to it than node C, because in graph , it takes one hop to go from node A to node B, but it takes two hops to go from node A to node C (i.e., through node B). In particular embodiments, with respect to two specific nodes, the less number of hops it takes to traverse from one node to another node, the closer the two nodes are related.","In particular embodiments, a graph, such as the one illustrated in , may be used to help determine what information is relevant to the user. Since the user is a member of the social-networking system, one of the node in the graph corresponds to and represents the user. The information represented by the other nodes near the node representing the user may be considered relevant to the user. Furthermore, in particular embodiments, the closer a node is to the node representing the user, the more relevant the information represented by that node is to the user.","Thus, as described above, in particular embodiments, given a specific user at a specific time and\/or in a specific location, \u00fcberfeed server  may collect information relevant to the user, optionally taking into consideration the current time and\/or location, from various information sources . In particular embodiments, the pieces of information thus collected, hereafter referred to as \u201cinformation items\u201d, may be ranked based on their respective degrees of relevance to the user, again optionally taking into consideration the current time and\/or location, as illustrated in STEP  of . In other words, information items that are relatively more relevant to the user are ranked higher than information items that are relatively less relevant to the user.","In particular embodiments, to rank the information items, a ranking score may be computed for each information item. The algorithm or equation used to compute the ranking score may take into consideration various factors (e.g., in the form of input variables), and this disclosure contemplates any applicable ranking factor. For example and without limitation, time, location, relevance level as indicated by the graph associated with the social-networking system, etc. may all be incorporated into the ranking algorithm as different input variables. The following is an example algorithm that may be used to compute the ranking score of each information item:\n\nscore=\u00d7time_relevance\u00d7location_relevance\u00d7graph_relevance\n","In the above equation, the term \u201ctime_relevance\u201d may be used to indicate how close the time associated with the information item is to the current time; the term \u201clocation_relevance\u201d may be used to indicate how close the location associated with the information item is to the current location; and the term \u201cgraph_relevance\u201d may be used to indicate how close the node representing the information item is to the node representing the user in the graph associated with the social-networking system. In addition, the term \u201cc\u201d may be a coefficient. For example, when appropriate, \u201cc\u201d may be used to artificially increase the ranking score, and thus boost the rank, of a specific information item. Of course, it is possible that a specific information item may not be associated with a time, a location, or represented by a node in the graph associated with the social-networking system. In particular embodiments, if a specific factor is not available with respect to an information item, that factor may be ignored (e.g., not used in the above algorithm).","In particular embodiments, the respective ranking scores of certain information items may be artificially increased in order to boost the ranks of these information items, as illustrated in STEP  of . Whether to boost the rank of a specific information item and how much the ranking score of the information item is actually increased may depend on many factors, and this disclosure contemplates any applicable rank-boosting factor.","As a first example, some information items are considered deterministic information while some information items are considered non-deterministic information. As described above, the relevance or importance level of a non-deterministic information item may decrease as time passes. If the user does not receive, view, or interact with the non-deterministic information item relatively quickly, the non-deterministic information item may become irrelevant or obsolete. Thus, in some cases, the ranking score of a non-deterministic information item may be artificially increased (e.g., using the term \u201cc\u201d in the above algorithm) so that the user may receive and interact with the non-deterministic information item sooner rather than later (e.g., before the non-deterministic information item becomes irrelevant or obsolete). For example, the ranking score of a headline news story may be artificially increased so that the user may read the headline news story while the event described in the news story is still recent and fresh.","Alternatively or in addition, since a non-deterministic information item may go away after some time, in particular embodiments, the term \u201cc\u201d in the above algorithm may be used to make the non-deterministic information item more persistent (i.e., not going away) by, for example, selecting a relatively high coefficient value for the term \u201cc\u201d.","As a second example, some information items may be associated with specific time. In some cases, the ranking score of an information item whose associated time is close to the current time may be artificially increased. For example, suppose that a social event (e.g., a dinner party) is scheduled to begin on Saturday at 8:00 pm. Further suppose that although the user has been invited to the event, the user has decided not to attend due to a schedule conflict. Thus, normally, this specific social event may not be considered very relevant to the user since the user has already decided not to attend the event. However, if the current time is Saturday at 7:30 pm, which is close to the time of the event, then the ranking score of the event may be artificially increased to remind the user about the event in case the user may change his mind or in case the schedule conflict no longer exists.","As a third example, some information items may be associated with specific locations. In some cases, the ranking score of an information item whose associated location is the same as or near the current location of the user (e.g., as indicted by the current location of the user's device) may be artificially increased. For example, suppose that the user lives in San Francisco. Thus, normally, a restaurant near Times Square in New York City has little or no relevance to the user. However, if the user is currently visiting New York City and happens to be sightseeing in Times Square, then the ranking score of the restaurant near Times Square may be artificially increased in case the user may be interested in finding a nearby establishment to have lunch.","In particular embodiments, a \u00fcberfeed may be constructed for the user, which includes the information items in the order of their respective ranks, as illustrated in STEP  of . For example, \u00fcberfeed server  of  may collect and rank the information items and construct the \u00fcberfeed based on the information items for the user.","In particular embodiments, the \u00fcberfeed may be pushed to a user device associated with the user, as illustrated in STEP  of . The information items in the \u00fcberfeed may be presented to the user (e.g., displayed on the screen of the user's device) according to their respective ranks. For example, \u00fcberfeed server  of  may forward the \u00fcberfeed to a push server , which in turn pushes the \u00fcberfeed to a user device . In particular embodiments, pushing a \u00fcberfeed to user device  is similar to pushing a notification to user device .","The example system illustrated in  includes \u00fcberfeed server  for collecting and ranking the information items and constructing the \u00fcberfeeds, and push server  for pushing the \u00fcberfeeds to user devices . Alternative system architectures may also be possible. For example, a single server may replace both \u00fcberfeed server  and push server  (i.e., both constructing and pushing the \u00fcberfeeds).","Although a \u00fcberfeed provides a single, comprehensive information source from which a user may receive all types of information relevant to the user, certain information items, although may already be included in a \u00fcberfeed, may still be delivered to the user's device separately, in addition to the \u00fcberfeed. Alternatively, certain information items may be excluded from the \u00fcberfeed and delivered to the user's device separately. For example, the user may choose to receive his emails separately, not as a part of the \u00fcberfeeds. In this case, the user's emails may be excluded from the \u00fcberfeeds constructed for the user and delivered to the user separately (e.g., through an email application).","In particular embodiments, a user may specify which types of information should be included in the \u00fcberfeeds and which types of information should be excluded from the \u00fcberfeeds and delivered separately, or which types of information should be included in the \u00fcberfeeds as well as delivered separately. The user's customization settings with respect to the \u00fcberfeeds may be stored in the user's profile associated with the social-networking system. When constructing \u00fcberfeeds for a user, the user's customization settings may be consulted to determine which information items should or should not be included in the \u00fcberfeeds.","The functionalities of \u00fcberfeed server  (e.g., collecting and ranking information items and constructing \u00fcberfeeds) described above may be implemented as a series of instructions stored on a computer-readable storage medium that, when executed, cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above.  illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems  perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems  provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software running on one or more computer systems  performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .","This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system  taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may be an embedded computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system  may include one or more computer systems ; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems  may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more computer systems  may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems  may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein, where appropriate.","In particular embodiments, computer system  includes a processor , memory , storage , an input\/output (I\/O) interface , a communication interface , and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.","In particular embodiments, processor  includes hardware for executing instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor  may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an internal register, an internal cache, memory , or storage ; decode and execute them; and then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory , or storage . In particular embodiments, processor  may include one or more internal caches for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor  including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation, processor  may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches, and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory  or storage , and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory  or storage  for instructions executing at processor  to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at processor  for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor  or for writing to memory  or storage ; or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual-address translation for processor . In particular embodiments, processor  may include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor  including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers, where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor  may include one or more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.","In particular embodiments, memory  includes main memory for storing instructions for processor  to execute or data for processor  to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may load instructions from storage  or another source (such as, for example, another computer system ) to memory . Processor  may then load the instructions from memory  to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions, processor  may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor  may write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache. Processor  may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments, processor  executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory  (as opposed to storage  or elsewhere) and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory  (as opposed to storage  or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus and a data bus) may couple processor  to memory . Bus  may include one or more memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory management units (MMUs) reside between processor  and memory  and facilitate accesses to memory  requested by processor . In particular embodiments, memory  includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate. Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory  may include one or more memories , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.","In particular embodiments, storage  includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage  may include an HDD, a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage  may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage  may be internal or external to computer system , where appropriate. In particular embodiments, storage  is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments, storage  includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage  taking any suitable physical form. Storage  may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor  and storage , where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage  may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.","In particular embodiments, I\/O interface  includes hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system  and one or more I\/O devices. Computer system  may include one or more of these I\/O devices, where appropriate. One or more of these I\/O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation, an I\/O device may include a keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable I\/O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I\/O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I\/O devices and any suitable I\/O interfaces  for them. Where appropriate, I\/O interface  may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor  to drive one or more of these I\/O devices. I\/O interface  may include one or more I\/O interfaces , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I\/O interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable I\/O interface.","In particular embodiments, communication interface  includes hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example, packet-based communication) between computer system  and one or more other computer systems  or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation, communication interface  may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface  for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system  may communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system  may communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system  may include any suitable communication interface  for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication interface  may include one or more communication interfaces , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.","In particular embodiments, bus  includes hardware, software, or both coupling components of computer system  to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation, bus  may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCI-X) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus  may include one or more buses , where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.","Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium encompasses one or more non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation, a computer-readable storage medium may include a semiconductor-based or other integrated circuit (IC) (such, as for example, a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application-specific IC (ASIC)), a hard disk, an HDD, a hybrid hard drive (HHD), an optical disc, an optical disc drive (ODD), a magneto-optical disc, a magneto-optical drive, a floppy disk, a floppy disk drive (FDD), magnetic tape, a holographic storage medium, a solid-state drive (SSD), a RAM-drive, a SECURE DIGITAL card, a SECURE DIGITAL drive, or another suitable computer-readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission (such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se) to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7101. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.","This disclosure contemplates one or more computer-readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor  (such as, for example, one or more internal registers or caches), one or more portions of memory , one or more portions of storage , or a combination of these, where appropriate. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments, one or more computer-readable storage media embody software. Herein, reference to software may encompass one or more applications, bytecode, one or more computer programs, one or more executables, one or more instructions, logic, machine code, one or more scripts, or source code, and vice versa, where appropriate. In particular embodiments, software includes one or more application programming interfaces (APIs). This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments, software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in a higher-level programming language, such as, for example, C, Perl, or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in a lower-level programming language, such as assembly language (or machine code). In particular embodiments, software is expressed in JAVA, C, or C++. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Markup Language (XML), or other suitable markup language.","Herein, \u201cor\u201d is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, \u201cA or B\u201d means \u201cA, B, or both,\u201d unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, \u201cand\u201d is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, \u201cA and B\u201d means \u201cA and B, jointly or severally,\u201d unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.","This disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly, where appropriate, the appended claims encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of, configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable, configured, enabled, operable, or operative."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
