---
title: Ureter to ileal conduit anastomosis using magnetic compression and related delivery devices and methods
abstract: Magnetic compression anastomosis can be carried out by placing cooperating magnets, one in the ileal conduit and one in the ureter, to lock together and form the anastomosis. The magnets may be placed to form a side-to-side anastomosis. At least one of the magnets can include radioactive material. Catheters may be used to place the magnets, and the catheters may have at least one deflatable or retractable tissue spacer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09332990&OS=09332990&RS=09332990
owner: WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY HEALTH SCIENCES
number: 09332990
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111222
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/428,466, filed Dec. 30, 2010, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if recited in full herein.","This invention relates to surgical devices that may be particularly useful for forming anastomosis between two hollow viscera using magnets.","Ureteral strictures commonly occur after cystectomies (which is often used to treat patients with bladder cancer), particularly after robotic surgery. Unfortunately, conventional repairs involve relatively lengthy surgeries. There remains a need for alternate ways to form primary and redo anastomosis in patients having ileal conduits.","Embodiments of the invention are directed to devices and methods for forming a magnetic compression anastomosis between the ureter and the ileal conduit.","Some embodiments are directed to methods of forming an anastomosis. The methods include: (a) placing a first magnet in a ureter of a patient proximate an ileal conduit; (b) placing a second magnet in the ileal conduit of a patient proximate the ureter; and (c) compressing tissue trapped between the first and second magnets based on a magnetic attraction force generated by the magnets, the compressing performed with sufficient force to form an anastomosis.","The placing steps can be carried out to create a side-to-side anastomosis upstream of an original anastomosis or a sutured end of the ureter.","At least one of the first and second magnets may optionally include a radioactive material. The method can further include exposing the trapped tissue to radiation from the at least one magnet. The forming step can be carried out based on the locking and the exposing steps.","In some embodiments, at least one of the placing the first magnet or the placing the second magnet is carried out using a catheter with a tissue spacer. At least one of the placing steps can include retracting or deflating the tissue spacer from an extended or inflated configuration prior to the magnet contacting local tissue.","Optionally, the steps of placing the first and second magnets can be carried out using respective catheters, at least one of the catheters having a magnet exit window with at least one inflatable tissue spacer proximate the window. Thus, the method can further include deflating the tissue spacer to position the ureter side or ileal conduit side magnet in alignment with the other magnet.","Still other embodiments are directed to ureter catheters. The ureter catheters include a catheter body sized and configured to travel through a ureter of a patient. The catheter body has an inner channel and an outer wall enclosing the inner channel. The ureter catheters also include a rare earth magnet releasably held in the catheter body adapted for positioning in a distal end of the ureter proximate an ileal conduit.","The catheter may optionally include window is a longitudinally extending window extending through the outer wall having opposing first and second ends extending a defined length of the catheter body configured to place the magnet on a sidewall of the ureter facing the ileal conduit to form a side-to-side anastomosis.","Yet other embodiments are directed to ileal conduit catheters. The ileal conduit catheters include a catheter body sized and configured to travel through a stoma and a distance through an illeat conduit of a patient. The catheter body has an inner channel and an outer wall enclosing the inner channel and a rare earth magnet releasably held in the catheter body adapted for positioning in a the ileal conduit proximate a ureter.","The catheter body can include a longitudinally extending window extending through the outer wall having opposing first and second ends extending a defined length of the catheter body.","The catheter body can also include a first tissue spacer proximate the first end of the window and a second tissue spacer proximate the second end of the window.","The ureter or ileal conduit catheters can include at least one inflatable tissue spacer, typically a first inflatable tissue spacer proximate one end of the window and a second inflatable tissue spacer proximate an opposing longitudinal end of the window.","The rare earth magnets can include neodymium.","In some embodiments, the magnet includes a radioactive material. The radioactive material may be a beta emitter having a half-life that is between about 24 to about 120 hours, more typically about 48 hours. The radioactive material can include Yttrium-90.","The ureter and\/or ileal conduit catheters can include a magnetic force sensor on the catheter body proximate a magnet exit window.","Still other embodiments are directed to delivery systems for placing ureter and ileal conduit magnets for generating magnetic compression. The systems include: (a) a ureter catheter having a magnet held therein for percutaneous delivery to a ureter then to a distal end of the ureter; and (b) an ileal conduit catheter having a magnet held therein for delivery to a target intrabody site. The ureter and ileal conduit catheters deliver respective magnets to cooperate and lock together on opposing sides of tissue and generate magnetic compression on trapped tissue.","The ureter catheter and the ileal conduit catheter can be configured to generate a side-to-side anastomosis using a portion of the ureter that is upstream of the distal end thereof but relatively close to an end portion of the cut ureter (the caudal end).","The system can also include a control circuit in communication with the ureter and\/or ileal conduit catheter configured to carry out at least one of the following: (a) monitor magnetic force data sensed by a sensor on the ureter and\/or ileal conduit catheters; or (b) generate an alert when magnetic force is detected to be insufficient.","The ureter and ileal conduit catheters may each comprise a magnet exit window on a side or tip portion thereof, and wherein at least one of the ureter or ileal conduit catheters comprises spaced apart first and second inflatable tissue spacers proximate the window.","In some embodiments, at least one of the magnets of the first and second catheter comprises a radioactive material. The radioactive material may optionally include a beta emitter. At least one of the magnets may also include a string attached to the magnet.","Some embodiments are directed to delivery systems for placing intrabody magnets for generating magnetic compression. The systems include: (a) a first catheter having a magnet held therein; and (b) a second catheter having a magnet held therein for delivery to a target intrabody site. The first and second catheters deliver respective magnets to cooperate and lock together on opposing sides of tissue and generate magnetic compression on trapped tissue. The systems also include a control circuit in communication with the first and\/or second catheter, configured to: (a) monitor magnetic force data sensed by a sensor on the first and\/or second catheters; and (b) generate an alert when the monitored magnetic force is detected to be insufficient and\/or sufficient.","The foregoing and other objects and aspects of the present invention are explained in detail in the specification set forth below.","It is noted that aspects of the invention described with respect to one embodiment, may be incorporated in a different embodiment although not specifically described relative thereto. That is, all embodiments and\/or features of any embodiment can be combined in any way and\/or combination. Applicant reserves the right to change any originally filed claim or file any new claim accordingly, including the right to be able to amend any originally filed claim to depend from and\/or incorporate any feature of any other claim although not originally claimed in that manner. These and other objects and\/or aspects of the present invention are explained in detail in the specification set forth below.","The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying figures, in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. In the figures, certain layers, components or features may be exaggerated for clarity, and broken lines illustrate optional features or operations unless specified otherwise. In addition, the sequence of operations (or steps) is not limited to the order presented in the figures and\/or claims unless specifically indicated otherwise. In the drawings, the thickness of lines, layers, features, components and\/or regions may be exaggerated for clarity and broken lines illustrate optional features or operations, unless specified otherwise.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms, \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincludes,\u201d and\/or \u201cincluding\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, regions, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, regions, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","It will be understood that when a feature, such as a layer, region or substrate, is referred to as being \u201con\u201d another feature or element, it can be directly on the other feature or element or intervening features and\/or elements may also be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly on\u201d another feature or element, there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that, when a feature or element is referred to as being \u201cconnected\u201d, \u201cattached\u201d or \u201ccoupled\u201d to another feature or element, it can be directly connected, attached or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast, when a feature or element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly connected\u201d, \u201cdirectly attached\u201d or \u201cdirectly coupled\u201d to another element, there are no intervening elements present. Although described or shown with respect to one embodiment, the features so described or shown can apply to other embodiments.","Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms, such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries, should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the present application and relevant art and should not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.","Embodiments of the invention are useful for veterinarian and human uses as well as for animal studies. That is, methods and devices provided by embodiments of the invention can be configured for any species of interest, e.g., mammalian including human, simian, mouse, rat, lagomorph, bovine, ovine, caprine, porcine, equine, feline, canine, and the like.","Embodiments of the invention may be particularly suitable for treating strictures or obstructions in ureters using percutaneous placement of the ureter magnet without requiring general anesthesia.","The term \u201ccatheter\u201d refers to a flexible tube insertable into the body. The term \u201cfluid\u201d includes gases and liquids. The term \u201cstring\u201d is used broadly and refers to a length of a biocompatible (sterile) thin flexible material formed of any suitable material or combinations of materials and may be in the form of a suture, thread, metallic and\/or textile strip, filament, strand, braid or the like. The term \u201clocking\u201d refers to the engagement of the first and second magnets based on the magnetic attraction forces generated by the cooperating magnets.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 3C"],"b":["15","15","15"],"i":["m","m ","m "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A-4E","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4C","FIG. 4D","FIG. 4E"],"b":["10","20","10","15","10","15"],"i":["m ","p "]},"The catheters ,  may comprise deflectable (steerable) shafts and end portions that allow the desired placement of the magnet in the body. The catheters ,  may be placed using local anesthesia. The catheter  in the ureter U can be placed percutaneously using a conventional needle-guidewire-catheter configuration. Either or both catheters ,  can be positioned using fluoroscopy and\/or ultrasound or another imaging modality. The catheters can place the magnets using robotic or conventional means.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["10","20","10","11","40","20","11"]},"As also shown in , at least one catheter ,  (shown as the catheter ) includes at least one tissue-spacer  to help prevent the magnet from contacting local tissue until the magnet is in a desired position or in a desired alignment with the magnet held by the other catheter. The tissue-spacer  can project outwardly about an entire perimeter, e.g., the entire circumference (), or about a portion of the perimeter (), and may project beyond the tip (). As shown in , the catheter  can include at least two tissue-spacers . The tissue-spacers  can be configured as a pair , , one on each side of the deployment window , but one or more than two tissue spacers  may also be used.  illustrates that catheter  can have this tissue-spacer configuration while catheter  is devoid of any tissue-spacers. The catheters can be configured in the opposite manner. Alternatively,  illustrates that both catheters ,  have the tissue spacers .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIGS. 15-17","FIGS. 12A and 12B","FIG. 16","FIG. 17"],"b":["40","15","40","40","30","40","30","40","10","20","16"],"i":["t","m ","t ","t ","b ","t","b ","t"]},"The tissue-spacer  is configured to extend a distance out beyond the bounds of the catheter body to space the magnet away from local tissue, then retract to allow the body of the catheter ,  to be closer to target tissue for deployment of the magnet from the catheter window . The tissue spacers  can be a fin, finger, or other member that can space the catheter body apart from tissue, then controllably retract into or against the body of the catheter. However, in particular embodiments, the tissue-spacer  comprises an inflatable balloon (that is also deflatable). Partial or total deflation can be used when the magnet is aligned with the opposing magnet across a target tissue barrier. Where more than one inflatable tissue-spacer is used, it can be concurrently or independently inflated and\/or deflated during use. The balloons can be configured to inflate outwardly between about 1 mm to about 1 cm, typically between about 5 mm to about 50 mm, and more typically between about 10 mm to about 20 mm, to provide a corresponding amount of spacing from local tissue.","The catheters ,  can be positioned in the body with the tissue-spacers  retracted\/deflated or extended\/inflated, depending on the intrabody path to the desired location. However, as a catheter ,  approaches a desired location or once in the body passage that has sufficient clearance, the tissue spacer  can be expanded or extended. The magnet can be held in the window  or held retracted inside the channel  a distance away from the window  during placement to the target site in the body. When the alignment and\/or position is confirmed as correct or appropriate (via an imaging modality such as ultrasound and\/or fluoroscopy or based on force measurements of the attractant force of the two magnets), the tissue-spacer(s) can be deflated and the magnet deployed from the window , thereby positioning the magnet in a desired aligned position. The inflatable\/deflatable tissue-spacer  can have any desired inflated shape. In some embodiments, the inflatable spacer can have a bulbous balloon-like shape as shown in  or a substantially constant annular shape (). In other embodiments as shown in , the inflatable tissue spacer can extend about a portion of a transverse cross-section, typically on the same side as the window exit .","Referring to , the catheters ,  can include a magnet pusher  or other magnet deployment member that can expel and\/or movably position the magnet to exit the catheter window . In some embodiments, the catheter ,  can include an inwardly extending shoulder  (e.g., crimp, resilient fins or fingers, or ledge) that acts as a stop to inhibit early deployment. The shoulder  can reside upstream of the window  but is typically proximate the window to limit actuation distance of the pusher. However, the magnet can be locked at a desired position using string or other locking configurations and a retaining shoulder is not required.","The pusher  is configured to push the magnet out of the catheter , . The pusher  can be an elongate member that can be slidably advanced in the channel  of the catheter ,  to physically push the magnet toward the window  (and beyond the shoulder , where used). As shown in , the magnet pusher  may alternatively or additionally include a biasing member , such as a spring or elastic compressed resilient member, that can be released or unbound to expand to force the magnet forward or rearward (the latter if held distal to the window) toward the window . In one embodiment, the biasing member is held distal of the magnet in the catheter in a compressed state () by an elongate member  having an arm . Turning the elongate member  turns the arm outwardly and releases a proximal end of the biasing member , which expands to force the magnet to enter the window . Pressurized fluid can also or alternatively be used to force the magnet to exit the window  (not shown).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["10","20","10","20","60","15","45","65","30","65","60","30","30","65","30","65","30","30","65","30","65"],"i":["m ","b ","b ","b ","b ","b ","b ","b"]},"The magnet can have any suitable configuration, but generally has a length dimension that is greater than the width or radius. The magnet can be sterile (sterilized by any appropriate means suitable for medical use) and held in a sterile package  for medical use (). The magnet can be held in a flexible container (typically with insulators such as foam packing or other material that inhibits breakage during shipment) and\/or may be included with a catheter as a kit or packaged in other suitable configurations. The term \u201csterile\u201d refers to devices that meet cleanliness standards guidelines for human and\/or animal surgical uses (e.g., FDA guidelines in the U.S.).  illustrates two exemplary shapes: a relatively thin polygon shape and a cylinder. The magnets can be sized and configured to form a desired anastomosis size (and\/or to accommodate the passage to the target site). They should have sufficient magnetic strength to apply sufficient compressive force to form an ischemic anastomosis (when used for this purpose). The magnets can vary in length depending on the end use, but are typically between about 0.5 mm-2 mm long and between about 0.1-3 mm in width or diameter. The slit (e.g., opening) formed by the magnetic compression is typically about two times the length of the magnet . For example, for certain embodiments, the magnets can form a hole such as between about 1 mm-10 mm across, typically about 2 mm wide and up to about 25 mm long. In particular embodiments, the magnets can be sized and configured to create small linear openings such as between about 1-2 mm wide and up to about 25 mm long (this size may be particularly suitable for the ureter).","The magnet can comprise a rare earth magnet, which is typically much stronger than a ferrous magnet. There are two conventional types of rare earth magnets, neodymium magnets (e.g., neodymium-iron-boron) and samarium-cobalt magnets. Rare earth magnets can be extremely brittle and can also be vulnerable to corrosion (such as from the digestive acids in the body). The magnets can be plated or coated with a biocompatible material such as silicone to protect them from breaking, chipping and\/or for corrosion resistance. Particular examples of rare earth magnets include NdFeB, SmCoand Sm(Co,Fe,Cu,Zr). However, it is contemplated that NdFeB may be particularly suitable for some embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["62","15","62","45","62","15","15","62"],"i":["m ","m","m"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["15","50","15","15","15","50","15","50"],"i":["m ","m ","m ","m ","m "]},"The material  can be formed on one surface integrated into a subsurface region or be placed on the entire perimeter. It is contemplated that by selectively placing the material  on one surface, this surface can be held enclosed in the catheter until the magnet is in a desired location, then rotated to face out the window  and deployed. This can limit exposure to non-target tissue. The magnet can be oriented so that the side, surface or interior having the radioactive material  faces and is held against the tissue using the magnetic compression to create the anastomosis.","The catheter ,  can have spaced apart inflatable spacers about each window  that can be separately inflated or deflated to help place the magnets in a desired location.  shows the more proximal inflatable spacers in a deflated or partially deflated state while the more distal inflatable spacers are inflated.","The window  can be a laterally extending window on one side of the catheter ,  () or may extend substantially about the entire perimeter. Alternatively, the window  can be configured to have circumferentially spaced apart window panels , () for selective deployment of the magnet from one. The window panels , may be axially offset from each other a defined distance (instead of aligned across from each other as shown in ), such as between about 10%-200% of a length of the magnet . In yet other embodiments, the exit window  may be located on an end of the catheter rather than along a side.","Referring to , in some embodiments, the window \u2032 can have a deformable outer perimeter . For example, the window \u2032 can have a scored or preferentially weaker boundary that when pushed with sufficient pressure\/force allows the underlying magnet to pass therethrough. The window \u2032 can have a size in the non-deformed shape that is less than that of the magnet body. In this configuration, the magnet may be held under the window  during insertion of the catheter in the body. The magnet can be pushed out of the window by pushing out the deformable perimeter of the window.  illustrates that the pusher \u2032 can include an inflatable end portion that expands to push the magnet out the window \u2032.","In some embodiments, the magnet and\/or catheter can be configured to introduce a therapeutic agent . For example, the window , \u2032 can have a thin film biocompatible material (e.g., thin film or cover) that extends over the open space used to expel or deploy the magnet . The thin film can be a restorable, dissolvable biocompatible material that can be released from the catheter body and held on a surface of the magnet . In some embodiments, the material can be a therapeutic agent configured as an outer coating on the magnet body or may be embedded in an intermediate layer of the magnet body. The material can be configured to inhibit scar and\/or collagen formation and\/or promote mucosal tissue growth about the anastomosis. The material can comprise stem cells and\/or mucosal cells to promote mucosal tissue growth that are released to local tissue during the magnetic compression.  shows that the catheter rather than the magnet can include a therapeutic agent (e.g., eject locally) before, after or during deployment of the magnet . The covering may help with corrosion issues and\/or provide cushioning during deployment of the magnet . The mucosal cells may improve patency. The catheter and\/or magnet can be configured to provide a time-released medicament such as one or more of: an anti-scarring agent, a mucosal tissue growth promoter, an antibiotic, an anti-inflammatory or other agent.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["200","10","20","65","30","30","30","100","120","100","30","200","210","210","225","30","10","20","120","200","200","202","135","10","20","40","40","10","20","135","15","15","15","10","15","15","135"],"i":["b ","b","b","m ","m ","m ","m ","m "],"sub":["1","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 13"],"b":["100","65","30","10","20","30","65","100","101"],"i":["b","b "]},"The circuit  can include a digital signal processor and\/or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) (e.g., ASIC and\/or processor with software) that includes or executes part or all of the computer readable program code for generating the inflation\/deflation directions, responding to input from the UI , and monitors force . The circuit  can include a data processing system which may, for example, be incorporated or integrated into the processor. The processor can communicate with or include electronic memory. The processor can be any commercially available or custom microprocessor. The memory is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices containing the software and data used to implement the functionality of the data processing system. The memory can include, but is not limited to, the following types of devices: cache, ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, flash memory, SRAM, and DRAM.","The processor or memory may include several categories of software and data used in the data processing system: the operating system; the application programs; the input\/output (I\/O) device drivers; and tension data.","As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art, the operating systems may be any operating system suitable for use with a data processing system, such as OS\/2, AIX, or zOS from International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, N.Y., Windows CE, Windows NT, Windows95, Windows98, Windows2000, WindowsXP, Windows Visa, Windows7, Windows CE or other Windows versions from Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash., Palm OS, Symbian OS, Cisco IOS, VxWorks, Unix or Linux, Mac OS from Apple Computer, LabView, or proprietary operating systems. The I\/O device drivers typically include software routines accessed through the operating system by the application programs to communicate with devices such as I\/O data port(s), data storage and certain memory components. The application programs are illustrative of the programs that implement the various features of the data processing system and can include at least one application, which supports operations according to embodiments of the present invention. The data represents the static and dynamic data used by the application programs, the operating system, the I\/O device driver and the like.","The control circuit  and\/or UI  of the system  can wirelessly communicate with a clinician workstation  and\/or other remote computer device or may be integrated into the clinician workstation . The system  and\/or workstation  can include a display that can communicate with a computer which includes a portal and an Application that allows the force data to be graphically displayed for a patient record or other data record. The system or components thereof can communicate with the workstation or other remote device via a computer network including an intranet or the internet with the appropriate use of firewalls for patient privacy and compliance with HIPPA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) or other regulatory rule or authority.","The system  can include an electronic library of target forces correlated to separation distance, such as target force ranges per distance separation (e.g., 1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm) that can be used to identify a desired threshold force for surgical use\/referral. This can help a clinician decide whether to retrieve or deploy a magnet or change a site. The force\/distance data can be generated using tissue phantoms and force curves based on magnet type, for example.","Turning again to , in some embodiments, robotic members can deliver the magnets and may not require the use of catheters ,  to place a respective magnet for creating the linear ischemic injury. In any event, the pair of magnets can be used to create the first\/primary anastomosis during the connection of the ureter to the ileal conduit.","In some embodiments, the first catheter  can be inserted percutaneously into the ureter and guided down to the ileal conduit using conventional needle-guidewire-dilator techniques and local anesthesia. The second catheter  can be inserted into the ileal conduit via a trans-ileal conduit entry from the stoma. The intrabody placements of the distal end portions of the catheters ,  can be carried out using an imaging modality such as ultrasound and\/or fluoroscopy, or, as needed, a laproscopy, as is well known. The inflatable tissue spacers can be expanded (either before or as the window  approaches the magnet\/window of the first catheter ) on the other side of the tissue. When the magnet is configured to be in the desired location and in alignment with the other magnet \/window , the tissue spacers can be deflated, which allows the catheter body to move closer the wall and positions the window  closer to the target tissue. The magnet can be deployed to form a compressive lock against the other magnet on the other side of the tissue. If a clinician\/surgeon decides that the placement is not optimum or proper, the spacers can be re-inflated and the window repositioned. If the magnet has been deployed out of the window, then it may be pulled back in via string . In some embodiments, the magnetic force can be measured with an onboard sensor  () if, for example, the gall bladder wall is too thick (as determined by a reduced force), the magnet  may not be deployed, and\/or an alert can be generated so that a clinician can make appropriate adjustments. Once deployed, the magnets generate magnetic compression on the tissue and can form an anastomosis over time. The magnets are subsequently passed through the formed opening into the and out of the body via the stoma.","It is noted that while embodiments of the invention are particularly suitable for ureter to illeal conduit uses, other uses are possible including, for example, biliary uses.","The foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limiting thereof. Although a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have been described, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly, all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the claims. In the claims, means-plus-function clauses, if used, are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Therefore, it is to be understood that the foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limited to the specific embodiments disclosed, and that modifications to the disclosed embodiments, as well as other embodiments, are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. The invention is defined by the following claims, with equivalents of the claims to be included therein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A-4E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6B"],"b":["7","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A and 11B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 12A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 12B","FIG. 12A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 12C","FIG. 12A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A and 14B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 17"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
