---
title: Apparatus and method for reducing frequent server messages
abstract: An apparatus and method for reducing frequent server messages including receiving a server request from a network server intended for a mobile station; determining whether to forward the server request to the mobile station; and transmitting a server response to the network server based at least in part on the server request on behalf of the mobile station.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762450&OS=08762450&RS=08762450
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08762450
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110722
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM OF PRIORITY UNDER 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61\/368,197 entitled \u201cApparatus and Method for Reducing Frequent Server Messages\u201d filed Jul. 27, 2010, and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.","This disclosure relates generally to apparatus and methods for reducing network overhead. More particularly, the disclosure relates to reducing frequent server messages in a wireless communication network.","Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various telecommunication services such as telephony, video, data, messaging, and broadcasts. Typical wireless communication systems may employ multiple-access technologies capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources (e.g., bandwidth, transmit power). Examples of such multiple-access technologies include code division multiple access (CDMA) systems, time division multiple access (TDMA) systems, frequency division multiple access (FDMA) systems, orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) systems, single-carrier frequency divisional multiple access (SC-FDMA) systems, and time division synchronous code division multiple access (TD-SCDMA) systems.","These multiple access technologies have been adopted in various telecommunication standards to provide a common protocol that enables different wireless devices to communicate on a municipal, national, regional, and even global level. An example of another telecommunication standard is Long Term Evolution (LTE). LTE is a set of enhancements to the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) mobile standard promulgated by Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP). It is designed to better support mobile broadband Internet access by improving spectral efficiency, lower costs, improve services, make use of new spectrum, and better integrate with other open standards using OFDMA on the downlink (DL), SC-FDMA on the uplink (UL), and multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) antenna technology. However, as the demand for mobile broadband access continues to increase, there exists a need for further improvements in LTE technology. Preferably, these improvements should be applicable to other multi-access technologies and the telecommunication standards that employ these technologies.","Disclosed is an apparatus and method for reducing frequent server messages. According to one aspect, a method for reducing frequent server messages including receiving a server request from a network server intended for a mobile station; determining whether to forward the server request to the mobile station; and transmitting a server response to the network server based at least in part on the server request on behalf of the mobile station.","According to one aspect, an apparatus for reducing frequent server messages, the apparatus comprising a processor and a memory, the memory containing program code executable by the processor for performing the following: receiving a server request from a network server intended for a mobile station; determining whether to forward the server request to the mobile station; and transmitting a server response to the network server based at least in part on the server request on behalf of the mobile station.","According to one aspect, an apparatus for reducing frequent server messages including means for receiving a server request from a network server intended for a mobile station; means for determining whether to forward the server request to the mobile station; and means for transmitting a server response to the network server based at least in part on the server request on behalf of the mobile station.","According to one aspect, a computer program product, comprising a computer-readable medium including program codes stored thereon, including receiving a server request from a network server intended for a mobile station; determining whether to forward the server request to the mobile station; and transmitting a server response to the network server based at least in part on the server request on behalf of the mobile station.","Advantages of the present disclosure may include reducing message overhead in a wireless communication network.","It is understood that other aspects will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, wherein it is shown and described various aspects by way of illustration. The drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.","The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various aspects of the present disclosure and is not intended to represent the only aspects in which the present disclosure may be practiced. Each aspect described in this disclosure is provided merely as an example or illustration of the present disclosure, and should not necessarily be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the present disclosure. Acronyms and other descriptive terminology may be used merely for convenience and clarity and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.","While for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts, it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts, as some acts may, in accordance with one or more aspects, occur in different orders and\/or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example, those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events, such as in a state diagram. Moreover, not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more aspects.","The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication networks such as Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) networks, Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) networks, Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA) networks, Orthogonal FDMA (OFDMA) networks, Single-Carrier FDMA (SC-FDMA) networks, etc. The terms \u201cnetworks\u201d and \u201csystems\u201d are often used interchangeably. A CDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA), cdma2000, etc. UTRA includes Wideband-CDMA (W-CDMA) and Low Chip Rate (LCR). Cdma2000 covers IS-2000, IS-95 and IS-856 standards. A TDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM). An OFDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA), IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.16, IEEE 802.20, Flash-OFDM\u00ae, etc. UTRA, E-UTRA, and GSM are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS). Long Term Evolution (LTE) is a release of UMTS that uses E-UTRA. UTRA, E-UTRA, GSM, UMTS and LTE are described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project\u201d (3GPP). cdma2000 is described in documents from an organization named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project 2\u201d (3GPP2). These various radio technologies and standards are known in the art.","As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent,\u201d \u201cmodule,\u201d \u201csystem\u201d and the like are intended to include a computer-related entity, such as but not limited to hardware, firmware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers. In addition, these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and\/or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets, such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system, distributed system, and\/or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.","Furthermore, various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal, which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system, device, subscriber unit, subscriber station, mobile station, mobile, mobile device, remote station, remote terminal, access terminal, user terminal, terminal, communication device, user agent, user device, or user equipment (UE). A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone, a satellite phone, a cordless telephone, a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) phone, a wireless local loop (WLL) station, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a handheld device having wireless connection capability, a computing device, or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover, various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal(s) and may also be referred to as an access point, a Node B, an eNodeB or some other terminology.","Generally, a wireless multiple-access communication system may simultaneously support communication for multiple wireless terminals. Each terminal communicates with one or more base stations via transmissions on the forward and reverse links. The forward link (or downlink) refers to the communication link from the base stations to the terminals, and the reverse link (or uplink) refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations. This communication link may be established via a single-in-single-out, multiple-in-signal-out or a multiple-in-multiple-out (MIMO) system.","The access terminal may host application clients that are to be in communication with an application server. The application server may require the access terminal to inform about the status thereof, such as whether the access terminal is reachable, etc. This may be implemented by exchanging keepalive messages between the access terminal and the application server. For example, a wireless communication system may include a packet data servicing node (PDSN) that provides a wireless terminal with access to a server. In one example configuration, the PDSN may facilitate point-to-point protocol (PPP) communication between the wireless terminal and server. In this example, the server may send multiple PPP-related keepalive or echo requests to the wireless terminal to ensure an active connection. PPP, in one example, is a data link protocol between two network users which may be established over a variety of physical layer media.","In one example, the wireless communication system may allow communications using a layer 2 tunneling protocol (L2TP). In one example, layer 2 is equivalent to a data link layer above a physical layer in a network protocol stack model. In this example, the wireless communication system provides an L2TP access concentrator or L2TP access client (LAC), which may be implemented at the PDSN and facilitates wireless terminal communication with an L2TP network server (LNS). In one aspect, the LAC is a network node on one side of an L2TP tunnel which forwards packets to and from a LNS. In another aspect, the LNS is a network node on another side of an L2TP tunnel which is a logical termination point of a PPP session with the LAC. In one example, the LAC and LNS acts as peers across the L2TP tunnel.","Moreover, for example, the LNS may be implemented at a mobile-to-mobile (M2M) server. In this example, an authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) function or another component may be provided as well to authenticate the wireless terminal (and\/or PDSN) to communicate with the M2M server. For example, L2TP may be used as a PPP extension. In one example, the M2M server may send L2TP control protocol (LCP) echo requests as keepalive messages to the wireless terminal, which introduces additional signaling in the wireless communication system. The two sides of the L2TP tunnel may be controlled by different organizations. For example, the LNS may be the responsibility of a telecom service provider and the LAC may be the responsibility of a wireless operator. In addition, the telecom provider may not have the ability to control how often such requests are sent from the network server. Thus, usage of L2TP may introduce undesirable signaling overhead to the telecom provider.","As described herein, additional signaling caused by keepalive and other connection management messages sent by a server to a wireless device may be reduced to enhance efficiency of a wireless network, mitigate processing required by a wireless device, improve battery life, and\/or the like. In one example, a proxy may be provided for responding to one or more of the keepalive messages or overhead messages for the wireless device without signaling the wireless device for the response. For example, the proxy may be implemented within a servicing node of the wireless network, such as a PDSN in a PPP configuration, a LAC in L2TP, an MME or gateway (e.g., serving gateway, PDN gateway, etc.) in LTE, a SGSN in UMTS, and\/or the like. In another example, the server may be modified to decrease a frequency at which it transmits the keepalive or other messages, utilize a disparate message for the keepalive functionality for the wireless device, and\/or the like. For example, in an L2TP configuration, a L2TP Hello message may be used in L2TP between a LAC and a LNS, and PPP LCP echo request\/reply message may be used between the LAC and the wireless device. In another example, if a link between the servicing node and the wireless device is released, then the servicing node may stop responding to the keepalive message or other connection related messages from the server. In yet another example, the link layer information that is available between the wireless device and the PDSN can be used to signal the application server, instead of using end-to-end keepalive messages between application server and the wireless device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","304","106","100","104","102","102","106","104","106","102"]},"According to an example, the servicing node  may implement a proxy to communicate on behalf of the MS . For example, the servicing node  may be a PDSN and may serve as a PPP proxy, receiving keepalive and\/or other PPP-related requests from the server  intended for the MS  and responding to at least a portion of the requests without signaling to the MS . In one example, the servicing node  may be a home agent (HA), a local mobility anchor or a packet data network gateway (P-GW). One skilled in the art would understand that the examples listed herein for the servicing node  is not meant to be exclusive as other examples are possible within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In one example, the servicing node  may have its own similar procedures with the MS , and may respond to the requests from the server  based at least in part on responses received for its procedures. For example, the server  may transmit keepalive requests to the servicing node  intended for the MS . The servicing node  may have previously performed a keepalive and\/or other PPP-related procedure with the MS , and may thus respond to the keepalive request from the server  using a previous response from the MS  without signaling the MS .","In one example, the wireless communication system  uses L2TP as a PPP extension. In this example, the server  transmits frequent keepalive requests to the MS  (via the servicing node , which may be a PDSN that acts as a LAC) to ensure the MS  is connected to the servicing node  and\/or is able to communicate with the server . For example, the keepalive requests can relate to LCP echo requests transmitted to the MS , for which a LCP echo reply is expected to ensure that the connection with the MS  is active. The server  may transmit such LCP echo requests according to a link layer inactivity timer at the server . In one example, the link layer inactivity timer is a PPP inactivity timer.","In one example, the servicing node  utilizes an inactivity timer, which can be reset each time communications are received from the MS  for keeping status of the MS . The inactivity timer at the servicing node  may have a larger value than that at the server  and\/or may be configurable to a higher value (where the server  may not have a configurable value). In this regard, where the servicing node  receives an LCP echo request from the server  for the MS , and the inactivity timer for the MS  is above a threshold value (e.g., a value less than that indicating inactivity), the servicing node  forwards the LCP echo request to the MS  to determine whether the MS  is active. If the servicing node  receives a LCP echo reply from the MS , it forwards the LCP echo reply to the server . Otherwise, if the inactivity timer for the MS  in the servicing node  is below a threshold value, the servicing node  may reply to the server  with the LCP echo reply without forwarding the LCP echo request to the MS .","In another example, the server  may be modified to decrease frequency at which keepalive requests are sent for the MS . For example, in L2TP, the server  uses a L2TP keepalive (Hello) message, as opposed to the LCP echo request, as the keepalive message. The L2TP keepalive message may be transmitted to solicit response from the servicing node , which can respond with a zero length body acknowledgement (ZLB ACK). When the inactivity timer for the MS  is above a threshold value, the servicing node  may then convert a received L2TP keepalive to a LCP echo request for the MS . Thus, the MS  may respond to the echo request with a LCP echo reply, and the servicing node  may utilize the reply in responding to the L2TP keepalive. Otherwise, if the inactivity timer for the MS  in the servicing node  is below a threshold value, the servicing node  may reply to the server  with L2TP ZLB ACK without sending the LCP echo request message to the MS .","In another example, the server  may utilize an inactivity timer with a larger value in sending LCP echo requests for the MS  so that LCP echo requests are transmitted more infrequently.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","200","102","104","106","102","202","102","204","102","206","102","208"]},"According to one example, the server  transmits a server request related to the MS  through the servicing node . For example, the server request can be a keepalive request (e.g., transmitted upon expiration of an inactivity timer at the server ), a status request, and\/or the like. The server request receiving component  may obtain and examine the server request to determine whether it should respond without signaling the MS . For example, where the request is a keepalive request, the server request responding component  transmits a keepalive response to the server  on behalf of MS .","In one example, the server request responding component  does so based at least in part on a keepalive procedure previously performed between the servicing node  and the MS . In one example, the server  is an instant messaging (IM) server that transmits keepalive requests to the MS  to ensure that the MS  is active to receive IMs from the server . The servicing node  may also perform a similar procedure as part of maintaining the PPP connection. Thus, when the servicing node  has a response from a PPP connection keepalive, the server request responding component  forwards the PPP connection keepalive or a response based on the PPP connection keepalive to the server  without signaling the MS . In another example, the server request responding component  transmits keepalive or similar messages to the server  without receiving a request for such. In yet another example, a PPP keepalive message received from the wireless device is transformed into an IM keepalive message by the serving node and is sent to the server.","In another example, the servicing node  implements a LAC to provide L2TP tunnel to the MS , and the server  implements an LNS (e.g., server  may be an M2M server). In this example, the servicing node  may receive keepalive requests (e.g., LCP echo requests or similar requests) from the server . The servicing node  may examine packets transmitted over the L2TP tunnel from the server  to the MS , and the server request receiving component  may obtain the LCP echo request. In one example, the server request responding component  may transmit an LCP echo reply to the server  without interrupting or otherwise signaling to the MS .","In another example, once the server request receiving component  obtains the keepalive request from the server , server request forwarding component  may determine whether to communicate the keepalive request to the MS  based at least in part on an inactivity timer (or similar timer) at the servicing node  related to the MS . Thus, for example, where the inactivity timer is within a threshold value away from an expiration value that indicates inactivity, the server request forwarding component  may then transmit the keepalive request to the MS . In one aspect, application level keepalive messages may be detected by an information exchange. In one example, the information exchange is between the MS  and the servicing node . In another example, the information exchange is between the servicing node  and the server . In one aspect, the information exchange includes packet filter information such as source IP address, target IP address, source port number, target port number, protocol identifier, offset (or location of) application-keep-alive message identifier, application-keep-alive timer. In one example, the servicing node  starts operating as the proxy on behalf of the MS  after the information exchange has occurred.","In one example, the MS  transmits a keepalive response, related to the keepalive request, to the servicing node . The server response receiving component , in this example, may obtain the keepalive response from the MS , and the server request responding component  may forward the keepalive response or a related response to the server . Thus, for example, the servicing node  may respond to at least a portion of the keepalive requests from the server  related to the MS  without interrupting the MS . It is to be appreciated that once the server response receiving component  obtains a keepalive response from the MS , it may reset the inactivity timer. In another example, the servicing node  resets the inactivity timer upon receiving substantially any communications from the MS  over PPP.","In another example using L2TP, the server  utilizes L2TP keepalive (Hello) messages with the servicing node  instead of LCP echo requests related to the MS . The servicing node  ensures that the MS  is active. In this regard, the server  may transmit an L2TP keepalive message to the servicing node , the server request receiving component  may receive the L2TP keepalive message, and the server request forwarding component  may determine whether an inactivity timer related to the MS  is within a threshold difference of a value that indicates inactivity. If so, the server request forwarding component  transmits an LCP echo request to the MS . If the server response receiving component  obtains an LCP echo reply from the MS , the server request responding component  may transmit a ZLB ACK to the server  in response to the L2TP keepalive message. If the server request receiving component  determines that the inactivity timer is not within the threshold difference, the server request responding component  transmits a ZLB ACK to the server . As described, it is to be appreciated that the server response receiving component  may reset the inactivity timer upon receiving the keepalive response from the MS .","In yet another example, the servicing node  is a mobility management entity (MME) or a gateway in LTE. In one example, the servicing node  may establish a GPRS tunneling protocol (GTP) tunnel between the MS  and the server . The server  may similarly request keepalive messages, status messages, or other connection related information of the MS  through the servicing node . The server request receiving component  may similarly receive such a request, and the server request responding component  may transmit a response to the server  with or without signaling the MS  (e.g., depending on information available to the servicing node ). If a response from MS  is needed, the server request forwarding component  transmits the request or a related request to the MS , and the server response receiving component  may obtain a responding message from the MS  which the server request responding component  may transmit to the server .","When the server  requests a keepalive message from the servicing node  in LTE, the server request responding component  may determine whether communication with the ME  is active based at least in part on a Tracking-Area-Update timer (e.g., and\/or whether the timer is a threshold difference away from indicating communication is inactive, as described). Moreover, for example, the servicing node  may be a serving GPRS support node (SGSN) in UMTS and may provide similar functionality between the MS  and the server  in UMTS.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","300","300","102","302","104","104","302","102","300"]},"According to an example, the MS  may setup a communication protocol  with the servicing node . For example, the MS  may establish a TCP\/IP session establishment or an IM open request  (and\/or the like) with the IM server  (e.g., via the servicing node ). It is to be appreciated that the MS  may have previously setup a connection with the servicing node  and optionally a proxy context. Once connected, the MS  may also establish a proxy signaling  with the servicing node  to receive and transmit IM signals from\/to the IM server  through the servicing node . For example, the servicing node  may transmit keepalive messages , , and  to the IM server  on behalf of the MS . For example, the servicing node  may forward the keepalive messages , , and  without being solicited from the IM server . In addition, the servicing node  may store a context of the MS  and the keepalive messages , , or , status messages or other messages may be transmitted based at least in part on the context (which may include a timer for sending such messages, for example). In another example, the servicing node  facilitates compressing headers for communications between the MS  and the IM server  based at least in part on the stored context.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","400","402","104","404","400","406","402","404","402","104","404"]},"According to one example, the MS  performs a LCP negotiation  with the PDSN  to establish a PPP session. In this example, the PDSN  may request authentication information from the MS , and provide received authentication information to the AAA  at . Additionally, at , the AAA  may authenticate the MS  and may forward acknowledgement and\/or further authentication information to the MS  through the PDSN . The PDSN  may subsequently negotiate a L2TP tunnel with a LCP state and authentication state forwarding  to the LNS (e.g., M2M server)  to provide an L2TP session (or related tunnel) for the MS . In addition, for example, the MS  may negotiate an Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP)  with the M2M server  to receive an IP address and\/or other address for communicating with, and the MS  may transmit data through the L2TP tunnel  to the M2M server .","In one example, as part of an established L2TP session for the MS , the M2M server  transmits the LCP echo request  related to the MS  to ensure that the MS  is active. The PDSN  may receive the LCP echo request for the MS  and may examine the request. For example, the PDSN  may check a timer  (e.g., a PPP inactivity timer) to determine whether to forward the LCP echo request to the MS . In this example, the timer may be outside of a threshold difference between the timer and a value indicating PPP inactivity, and thus, the PDSN  may transmit an LCP echo reply  to the M2M server  without forwarding to the MS .","Subsequently (e.g., after one or more additional LCP echo requests or otherwise), the M2M server  may transmit another LCP echo request  for the MS . The PDSN  may examine the request and may check the timer again . In this example, the timer may be within the threshold difference described above (or expired, as in one example), and thus, the PDSN  may forward the LCP echo request  to the MS . The MS  may send an LCP echo reply  to the PDSN  for providing to the M2M server , and the PDSN  may provide the LCP echo reply  to the M2M server . It is to be appreciated that the PDSN  may reset the timer upon receiving the LCP echo reply . In another example, the LCP echo requests  and  may be L2TP keepalive (Hello) messages, and the LCP echo replies  and  may be ZLB ACKs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","502","504"]},"At , transmit a server response to the network server based at least in part on the server request. Thus, for example, the server response may be received from the mobile station in response to forwarding the server request thereto or may be transmitted without interrupting the mobile station. The server response may be a keepalive response (e.g., an LCP echo response), a status response, and\/or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","600","600","600","602","602","604"]},"Furthermore, the logical grouping  may include an electrical component for determining whether to forward the server request to the mobile station . And, in one example, this may include determining a value of an inactivity timer related to the mobile station, wherein the server request is a keepalive request. If the inactivity timer value is less than a threshold difference from a value indicating inactivity, for example, the electrical component  may forward the keepalive request to the mobile station. The logical grouping  may additionally include an electrical component for transmitting a server response to the network server based at least in part on the server request on behalf of the mobile station . Thus, whether or not the electrical component  forwards the server request, the electrical component  may transmit a server response.","Moreover, the logical grouping  may include an electrical component for receiving the server response from the mobile station . This may occur where the electrical component  forwards the server request to the mobile station (e.g., based at least in part on a local inactivity timer, to obtain information for which there is no local parameter that is previously received from the mobile station, etc.). Additionally, the device  may include a memory  that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components , , , and . While shown as being external to the memory , it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components , , , and  may exist within the memory .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","702","702"]},"In one aspect, the servicing node  further includes a memory , such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by the processor . The memory  may include a type of memory usable by a computer, such as random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), tapes, magnetic discs, optical discs, volatile memory, non-volatile memory, and any combination thereof.","Furthermore, in one aspect, the servicing node  includes a communications component  that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware, software, and services as described herein. The communications component  may carry communications between components on the servicing node , as well as between the servicing node  and external devices, such as devices located across a communications network and\/or devices serially or locally connected to the servicing node . For example, the communications component  may include one or more buses, and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver, respectively, operable for interfacing wirelessly or over a wire with external devices.","Additionally, the servicing node  may further include a data store , which may be any suitable combination of hardware and\/or software, that provides for mass storage of information, databases, and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example, the data store  may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by the processor .","The servicing node  may additionally include a user interface component  operable to receive inputs from a user of the servicing node , and further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. The user interface component  may include one or more input devices, including but not limited to a keyboard, a number pad, a mouse, a touch-sensitive display, a navigation key, a function key, a microphone, a voice recognition component, any other mechanism capable of receiving an input from a user, or any combination thereof. Further, the user interface component  may include one or more output devices, including but not limited to a display, a speaker, a haptic feedback mechanism, a printer, any other mechanism capable of presenting an output to a user, or any combination thereof.","The servicing node  may include a server request receiving component  that may obtain one or more server requests for an MS from a network server, a server request responding component  that transmits a server response to the network server (e.g., based on a response from an MS or otherwise locally generated and transmitted so as not to signal the MS), a server request forwarding component  that transmits the received server request to an MS, and a server response receiving component  that obtains a server response from the MS where the request is transmitted thereto. For example, the communications component  may facilitate receiving communications that include the server requests or responses and may additionally facilitate transmitting communications including such. Moreover, the processor , for example, may execute one or more of the components , , , and .","In one aspect, L2TP may be used as a PPP extension between a cellular operator and a service provider. However, keepalive messages executed by the PPP in an LNS may result in unnecessary signaling to the cellular operator network. In general, the operator has no control over any network entity owned by the service provider. A gateway, e.g. PDSN, in the cellular network may be the proxy to control the keepalive message sent by the LNS which may result in reduced unnecessary signaling in the operator's network over the air interface and backhaul link.","In one example, a network may have an M2M server and a PDSN using L2TP where an LNS is located in the M2M server, an LAC is located in the PDSN and several Request for Comments (RFCs) such as RFC 2661 (L2TP v2), RFC 2867 (RADIUS Accounting Modifications for Tunnel Protocol Support), and RFC 2868 (RADIUS Attributes for Tunnel Support). In another example, the M2M server sends keepalive messages often, where the keepalive messages use PPP LCP Echo Request and Reply. This step may add significant unnecessary traffic to the air interface and network. In some cases, a party may not have control over the M2M server.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},"In a second option, the LNS may use a L2TP Keepalive (Hello) message where the PDSN converts the L2TP Hello message to an LCP Echo Request if necessary. If the PPP Inactivity timer configured in the PDSN is close to expiration, the PDSN may send an LCP Echo Request to the MS, reset the PPP Inactivity timer after receiving an LCP Echo Reply from the MS, and then send an L2TP ZLB ACK to the LNS>.","In a third option, the PPP Inactivity timer in the LNS may be configured with a large value so that the LNS will send LCP Echo Request messages less frequently.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"]},"In one aspect, an application proxy may be established at the PDSN. The application proxy may perform signaling, which does not contain user-generated data, with the application server on behalf of the UE. Examples of the signaling may include Keepalive messages, status update messages, etc. In one example, PPP link status that is known at the PDSN may be used to generate application layer keepalive messages.","In another aspect, usage of an application proxy has several advantages, For example, application level signaling that is based on \u201cpresence\u201d indications may be handled by the proxy, for example, in the case of Instant Messaging (IM). If a context is maintained at the proxy, application header compression may be employed between the AT and the application proxy. For example, GETzip is an example for http-based compression.","In another aspect, the application proxy may be located in an entity that is aware of the link status of the AT, which helps with the presence information. In an example of HRPD, the PDSN\/HSGW may be aware of the link status of the AT. In another example, an application proxy may be provided by an application writer; however, in this case the application proxy may take advantage of link level information coming from PDSN. The PDSN may provide application programming interfaces (APIs) which the application proxy may use, e.g., link status, quality of service (QoS) metrics, etc. In another example, the PDSN may employ deep packet inspection (DPI) to identify and intercept the application packets based on port number.","One skilled in the art would understand that the steps disclosed in the example flow diagram in  can be interchanged in their order without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Also, one skilled in the art would understand that the steps illustrated in the flow diagram are not exclusive and other steps may be included or one or more of the steps in the example flow diagram may be deleted without affecting the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.","Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative components, logical blocks, modules, circuits, and\/or algorithm steps described in connection with the examples disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, firmware, computer software, or combinations thereof. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware, firmware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and\/or algorithm steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware, firmware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope or spirit of the present disclosure.","For example, for a hardware implementation, the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), digital signal processors (DSPs), digital signal processing devices (DSPDs), programmable logic devices (PLDs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), processors, controllers, micro-controllers, microprocessors, other electronic units designed to perform the functions described therein, or a combination thereof. With software, the implementation may be through modules (e.g., procedures, functions, etc.) that perform the functions described therein. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by a processor unit. Additionally, the various illustrative flow diagrams, logical blocks, modules and\/or algorithm steps described herein may also be coded as computer-readable instructions carried on any computer-readable medium known in the art or implemented in any computer program product known in the art. In one aspect, the computer-readable medium includes non-transitory computer-readable medium.","In one or more examples, the steps or functions described herein may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media may include RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if the software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1010","1020","1030","1000"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["1100","1104","1106","1108","1110","1112","1114","1116","1112","1114","1112","1114","1116","1120","1116","1118","1122","1106","1108","1106","1108","1122","1126","1122","1124","1118","1120","1124","1126","1120","1118"]},"Each group of antennas and\/or the area in which they are designed to communicate is often referred to as a sector of the access point. In one example, antenna groups each are designed to communicate to access terminals in a sector, of the areas covered by access point .","In communication over forward links  and , the transmitting antennas of access point  utilize beamforming in order to improve the signal-to-noise ratio of forward links for the different access terminals  and . Also, an access point using beamforming to transmit to access terminals scattered randomly through its coverage causes less interference to access terminals in neighboring cells than an access point transmitting through a single antenna to all its access terminals.","An access point may be a fixed station used for communicating with the terminals and may also be referred to as an access point, a Node B, an eNodeB or some other terminology. An access terminal may also be called an access terminal, user equipment (UE), a wireless communication device, terminal, access terminal or some other terminology.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["1210","1250","1200","1210","1212","1214","1214"]},"The coded data for each data stream may be multiplexed with pilot data using OFDM techniques. The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and may be used at the receiver system to estimate the channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream is then modulated (i.e., symbol mapped) based on a particular modulation scheme (e.g., BPSK, QSPK, M-PSK, or M-QAM) selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate, coding, and modulation for each data stream may be determined by instructions performed by processor .","The modulation symbols for all data streams are then provided to a TX MIMO processor , which may further process the modulation symbols (e.g., for OFDM). TX MIMO processor  then provides NT modulation symbol streams to NT transmitters (TMTR) through . In certain embodiments, TX MIMO processor  applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.","Each transmitter  receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals, and further conditions (e.g., amplifies, filters, and upconverts) the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. NT modulated signals from transmitters through are then transmitted from NT antennas through , respectively.","At receiver system , the transmitted modulated signals are received by NR antennas through and the received signal from each antenna  is provided to a respective receiver (RCVR) through . Each receiver  conditions (e.g., filters, amplifies, and downconverts) a respective received signal, digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples, and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding \u201creceived\u201d symbol stream.","An RX data processor  then receives and processes the NR received symbol streams from NR receivers  based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide NT \u201cdetected\u201d symbol streams. The RX data processor  then demodulates, deinterleaves, and decodes each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor  is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor  and TX data processor  at transmitter system . A processor  periodically determines which pre-coding matrix to use (discussed below). The processor  formulates a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion.","The reverse link message may comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and\/or the received data stream. The reverse link message is then processed by a TX data processor , which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source , modulated by a modulator , conditioned by transmitters through , and transmitted back to transmitter system .","At transmitter system , the modulated signals from receiver system  are received by antennas , conditioned by receivers , demodulated by a demodulator , and processed by a RX data processor  to extract the reserve link message transmitted by the receiver system . The processor  then determines which pre-coding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights then processes the extracted message.","In one example, the illustrative components, flow diagrams, logical blocks, modules and\/or algorithm steps described herein are implemented or performed with one or more processors. In one aspect, a processor is coupled with a memory which stores data, metadata, program instructions, etc. to be executed by the processor for implementing or performing the various flow diagrams, logical blocks and\/or modules described herein.  illustrates an example of a device  comprising a processor  in communication with a memory  for executing the processes for reducing the frequency of forwarding server messages to a mobile station. In one example, the device  is used to implement the algorithm illustrated in . In one aspect, the memory  is located within the processor . In another aspect, the memory  is external to the processor . In one aspect, the processor includes circuitry for implementing or performing the various flow diagrams, logical blocks and\/or modules described herein.","The previous description of the disclosed aspects is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
