---
title: Method for controlling component for network system
abstract: Provided is a method of controlling a component for a network system. The method of controlling a component for a network system, which is communicable with the other component, includes recognizing energy information or additional information except for the energy information; and providing recommended information related to an operation of the component within a recommended range on the basis of the recognized energy information or the additional information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09513613&OS=09513613&RS=09513613
owner: LG ELECTRONICS INC.
number: 09513613
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20110622
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority of PCT\/KR2011\/004573 filed on Jun. 22, 2011, which claims priority of Korean Application No. 10-2010-0058921 filed on Jun. 22, 2010, Korean Application No. 10-2010-0128422 filed on Dec. 15, 2010, Korean Application No. 10-2011-0001541 filed on Jan. 6, 2011, Korean Application No. 10-2011-0001542 filed on Jan. 6, 2011 and PCT\/IB\/2010\/003388 filed on Nov. 26, 2010, all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.","The present disclosure relates to a method of controlling a component for a network system.","Providers simply provide energy sources such as electricity, water, and gas, and consumers simply use the supplied energy sources. This makes it difficult to effectively manage the production, distribution and use of energy. Therefore, a network system for effectively managing energy is in need.","Embodiments provide a method of controlling a component for a network system which can effectively manage an energy source.","In one embodiment, a method of controlling a component for a network system, which is communicable with the other component, includes: recognizing energy information or additional information except for the energy information; and providing recommended information related to an operation of the component within a recommended range on the basis of the recognized energy information or the additional information.","The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.","Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present disclosure, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"The network system is a system for managing an energy source such as electricity, water or gas. The energy source means one of which amount generated or used can be metered. Therefore, even a source not mentioned above may be used as the energy source. Hereinafter, electricity will be described as an example of the energy source, and details of this specification may be identically applied to other energy sources.","Referring to , a network system according to an embodiment includes a power plant for producing electricity. The power plant may include a power plant for producing electricity through a thermal power generation or nuclear power generation and a power plant using water power, sunlight power, wind power or the like which is eco-friendly energy.","The electricity produced in the power plant is transmitted to a sub-control center through a power transmission line, and the sub-control center transmits the electricity to a substation so that the electricity is distributed to customers such as houses or offices.","Electricity produced by the eco-friendly energy is also transmitted to the substation so as to be distributed to each of the customers. The electricity transmitted from the substation is distributed to each of the offices or houses through electricity power storage, or is directly distributed to each of the offices or houses.","In a house using a home area network (HAN), electricity may be produced by itself through sunlight, fuel cells built in a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV), or the like. Also, the produced electricity may be stored or distributed, or surplus electricity may be resold to the outside world.","The network system may include a smart meter for detecting the amount of electricity used in each customer (house, office or the like) in real time, and an advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) for metering the amount of electricity used in a plurality of customers.","The network system may further include an energy management system (EMS) for managing energy. The EMS may generate information on operations of one or more components with respect to energy (production of energy, distribution of energy, usage of energy, storage of energy, and the like). The EMS may generate at least a command for the operations of the components.","In this specification, a function or solution performed by the EMS may be referred to as an energy management function or energy management solution.","In the network system, one or more EMSs may be provided as a separate configuration, or the EMS may be included as an energy management function or energy management solution in one or more components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"Referring to , the network system according to the present disclosure is configured by a plurality of components. For example, the components of the network system are a power plant, a substation, a sub-control center, an EMS, electric home appliances, a smart meter, a storage battery, a web server, an AMI, a home server, and the like.","In the present disclosure, each of the components may be configured by a plurality of sub-components. As an example, in a case of one component is an electric home appliance, sub-components may be a microcomputer (MICOM), a heater, a display and the like. That is, all that perform a specific function may be components in the present disclosure, and such components constitute the network system of the present disclosure. Two components may communicate with each other by means of a communication unit. One network may be one component or may be configured by a plurality of components.","In this specification, the network system in which communication information is related to an energy source may be referred to as an energy grid.","A network system according to an embodiment may include a utility area network (UAN)  and a home area network (HAN) . The UAN  and the HAN  may perform wired or wireless communication by means of a communication unit, and may perform two-way communication.","In this specification, the term \u201chome\u201d means not only a household as a lexical meaning but also a group in which specific components such as buildings or companies gather. Also, the term \u201cutility\u201d means a group in which specific components outside the home gather.","The UAN  includes an energy generation component  for generating energy, an energy distribution component  for distributing or transmitting energy, an energy storage component for storing energy, an energy management component  for managing energy, and an energy metering component  for metering information related to energy.","In a case where one or more components that constitute the UAN  consume energy, the components that consume the energy may be energy consumption components.","The energy consumption component is a component corresponding to the energy consumption component  that constitutes the HAN . The energy consumption component may be the same component as the energy consumption component  or may be another component distinguished from the energy consumption component .","The energy generation component  may be a power plant as an example. The energy distribution component  distributes or transmits energy generated in the energy generation component  and\/or energy stored in the energy storage component  to the energy consumption component  that consumes the energy. The energy distribution component  may be a power transmitter, substation, sub-control center, or the like.","The energy storage component  may be a storage battery, and the energy management component  generates information for driving one or more of the energy generation component , the energy distribution component , the energy storage component  and the energy consumption component , related to energy. The energy management component  may generate at least a command for the operation of a specific component.","The energy management component  may be an EMS. The energy metering component  may meter information related to the generation of energy, the distribution of energy, the usage of energy, the storage of energy, and the like. The energy metering component  may be an AMI as an example. The energy management component  may be a separate configuration, or may be included in another component as an energy management function.","The UAN  may communicate with the HAN  by a terminal component (not shown). That is, information generated or transferred in a specific component that constitutes the UAN may be transmitted to the HAN  through the terminal component, or information generated or transferred in another component that constitutes the HAN  may be received to the UAN  through the terminal component. The terminal component may be a gate way as an example. The terminal component may be provided to one or more of the UAN  and the HAN .","The terminal component may be a component necessary for transmitting\/receiving information between the UAN and the HAN.","Two components that constitute the UAN  may communicate with each other by means of a communication unit.","The HAN  includes an energy generation component  for generating energy, an energy distribution component  for distributing energy, an energy storage component  for storing energy, an energy management component  for managing energy, an energy metering component  for metering information related to energy, an energy consumption component  for consuming energy, a central management component  for controlling a plurality of components, and an energy grid assistance component .","The energy generation component  may be a home power generator, and the energy storage component  may be a storage battery. The energy management component  may be an EMS. As an example, the energy generation component  may be a solar cell, a fuel cell, a wind power generator, a power generator using subterranean heat, a power generator using seawater, or the like.","The energy storage component  may perform storage using energy generated from the energy generation component . Therefore, in view of the use of energy, the energy storage component  and the energy generation component  may be an energy using component that uses energy together with the energy consumption component . That is, the energy using component may include at least an energy consumption component, an energy generation component and an energy storage component. In a case where the energy management component uses energy, it may be included in the energy using component.","In view of the supplied energy, the energy storage component , the energy consumption component and the energy generation component  may be an energy supplied component to which energy is supplied.","The energy metering component  may meter information related to the generation of energy, the distribution of energy, the usage of energy, the storage of energy, and the like. The energy metering component  may be a smart meter as an example. The energy consumption component  may be, as an example, an electric home appliance or a heater, motor, display or the like, which constitutes the electric home appliance. In this embodiment, there is no limitation in the kind of the energy consumption component .","Although not shown, the network system may include an accessory component or a consumable handling component. The accessory component may be an energy network-only component which performs an additional function for the energy network. For example, the accessory component may be an energy network-only weather reception antenna.","The consumable handling component may be a component for storing, supplying, and transferring a consumable and confirms and recognize information about the consumable. For example, the consumable may be a product or material which is used or handled during the operation of the component. Also, the consumable handling component may be managed in the energy network, e.g., the energy management component. For example, the consumable may be a washing cloth of a washing machine, a cooking item of a cooking appliance, or a detergent for cleaning the washing cloth in the washing machine, or a fiber conditioner, or seasoning for cooking item.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"Referring to , in the network system according to the present disclosure, a specific component  may receive information related to energy (hereinafter, referred to as energy information ) by means of a communication unit. The specific component  may further receive additional information (environment information, time information and the like) by means of the communication unit. In this instance, the information may be received from another component. That is, at least energy information is contained in the received information.","The specific component  may be a component that constitutes the UAN  or a component that constitutes the HAN .","As described above, the energy information  may be one of information related to electricity, water, gas and the like. Hereinafter, information related to electricity will be described as an example of the energy information, but information related to other energy sources may be identically applied.","For example, the kind of information related to the electricity may include time-based pricing, curtailment, grid emergency, grid reliability, energy increment, operation priority, and the like.","The information may be divided into scheduled information previously produced based on previous information, and real-time information changed in real time. The scheduled information and the real-time information may be divided by whether or not predict information after the current time (in the future).","The energy information  may be transmitted\/received as a true or false signal such as a Boolean signal on the network system, or may be transmitted\/received as a real price. Alternatively, the energy information  may be transmitted\/received by being divided into a plurality of levels.","The energy information  may be divided into time of use (TOU) information, critical peak pattern (CPP) information or real time pattern (RTP) information according to the change in the pattern of data with respect to time.","According to the TOU information, a data is changed step by step depending on time. According to the CPP information, a data is changed step by step or in real time depending on time, and emphasis is displayed at a specific point of time. According to RTP information, a data is changed in real time depending on time.","In a case where the energy information is time-based pricing information as an example, the time-based pricing information is changed. The time-based pricing information may be transmitted\/received as a true or false signal such as a Boolean signal on the network system, or may be transmitted\/received as a real price. Alternatively, the time-based pricing information may be transmitted\/received by being divided into a plurality of levels.","In a case where the specific component  receives a true or false signal such as a Boolean signal, one signal may be recognized as an on-peak signal, and the other signal may be recognized as an off-peak signal.","Alternatively, the specific component  may recognize information on at least one drive, which contains the time-based information, and may recognize an on-peak or off-peak signal by comparing the value of the recognized information with the value of reference information.","For example, in a case where the specific component  recognizes information divided into levels or real pricing information, it recognizes an on-peak or off-peak signals by comparing the value of the recognized information with the value of reference information.","In this case, the value of the information on drive may be at least one of time-based pricing, electric energy, the variation of time-based pricing, the variation of electric energy, the average of time-based pricing and the average of electric energy. The value of reference information may be at least one of an average, the average between maximum and minimum values of power information during a predetermined period of time and the reference variation of power information during the predetermined period of time (e.g., the slope of consumed electric energy per unit time).","The value of reference information may be determined in real time or may be previously determined. The value of reference information may be determined on the UAN or may be determined on the HAN (a customer's direct input or an input from the energy management component, the central management component or the like).","In a case where the specific component  (e.g., the energy consumption component) recognizes an on-peak signal (e.g., at a point of time of recognition), an output may be determined as zero (stop or maintenance of a stop state) or may be decreased. If necessary, the output may be restored or increased. The driving scheme of the specific component may be previously determined before the specific component is operated, or may be changed when the specific component recognizes an on-peak signal posterior to the start of operation.","Alternatively, in a case where the specific component recognizes an on-peak signal (e.g., at a point of time of recognition), the output is maintained under an operable condition. In this case, the operable condition means that the value of the information on drive is less than a predetermined reference. The value of the information on drive may be time-based pricing, consumed electric energy, operation time, or the like. The predetermined reference may be a relative or absolute value.","The predetermined reference may be determined in real time or may be previously determined. The predetermined reference may be determined on the UAN or may be determined on the HAN (a customer's direct input or an input from the energy management component, the central management component or the like).","Alternatively, in a case where the specific component  recognizes high-cost information, the output of the specific component may be maintained or increased when the difference between a state information value and a reference value is within a predetermined range. For example, in a case where a compressor of a refrigerator is not operated in a low-cost section, the temperature of a cool chamber or freezing chamber is increased. Therefore, the compressor is necessarily turned on when the temperature of the cool chamber or freezing chamber approaches a reference temperature. In a case where a high-cost section comes after the compressor is turned on, the compressor maintains a current output when the difference between the temperature of the cool chamber or freezing chamber and the reference temperature is within a predetermined range. In a case where a user selects a button for cancelling power saving in the state that the specific component  recognizes the high-cost information, the output of the specific component may be maintained.","Alternatively, in a case where the specific component  recognizes an on-peak signal (e.g., at a point of time of recognition), the output may be increased. However, although the output is increased at the point of time when the specific component recognizes the on-peak signal, the total output amount of the specific component during the entire drive period may be decreased or maintained as compared with that when the specific component is operated at a normal output level. Alternatively, although the output is increased at the point of time when the specific component recognizes the on-peak signal, the total consumed power or total time-based pricing of the specific component during the entire operation period may be decreased as compared that when the specific component is operated at a normal output level.","In a case where the specific component  recognizes an off-peak signal (e.g., at a point of time of recognition), the output may be increased. For example, in a case where the operation reservation of the specific component is set up, the drive of the specific component may be started before the setup time, or a component having a large output among a plurality of components may be first driven. In a case where the specific component is a refrigerator, supercooling may be performed by increasing an output as compared with the existing output (change in the state of cool air that is a medium for performing the function of the refrigerator). In a case where the specific component is a washing machine or washer, hot water may be stored by driving a heater earlier than the time when the heater is to be operated (storage of hot water that is an additional medium for performing the function of the washing machine or washer). Alternatively, in a case where the specific component is a refrigerator, cool air may be stored in a separate supercooling chamber by increasing an output as compared with the existing output. Alternatively, in a case where the specific component recognizes an off-peak signal (e.g., at a point of time of recognition), electricity may be stored.","The curtailment information is information related to a mode in which the specific component is stopped or a small amount of time-based pricing is taken. As an example, the curtailment information may be transmitted\/received as a true or false signal such as a Boolean signal on the network system.","If the specific component  recognizes curtailment information, the output may be determined as zero (stop or maintenance of a stop state) or may be decreased as described above.","The grid emergency information is information related to a power failure or the like. As an example, the grid emergency information may be transmitted\/received as a true or false signal such as a Boolean signal on the network system. The information related to a power failure or the like has a relation with the reliability of a component using energy.","In a case where the specific component  recognizes grid emergency information, it may be immediately shut down.","The grid reliability information is information related to the supply amount of electricity supplied or information related to the quality of electricity. The grid reliability information may be transmitted\/received as a true or false signal such as a Boolean signal on the network system, or may be determined by a component (e.g., an electric home appliance) through the frequency of AC power supplied to the component.","That is, if a frequency lower than the frequency of AC power supplied to the component is sensed, it may be determined that the amount of electricity supplied is small (information on the deficiency of the amount of electricity supplied). If a frequency higher than the frequency of AC power supplied to the component is sensed, it may be determined that the amount of electricity supplied is large (information on the excess of the amount of electricity supplied).","In a case where the specific component recognizes shortage of the amount of electricity or poor quality of electricity in the grid reliability information, an output may be determined as zero (stop or maintenance of a stop state) or may be decreased. If necessary, the output may be restored or increased.","On the other hand, in a case where the specific component recognizes the information on the excess of the amount of electricity supplied, the output may be increased, or the operation may be converted from an off-state to an on-state.","The energy increment information is information related to a state that surplus electricity is generated because the amount of electricity used by a component is less than that of power generation. As an example, the energy increment information may be transmitted\/received as a true or false signal such as a Boolean signal on the network system.","In a case where the specific component  recognizes energy increment information, the output may be increased. For example, in a case where the operation reservation of the specific component is set up, the drive of the specific component may be started before the setup time, or a component having a large output among a plurality of components may be first driven. In a case where the specific component is a refrigerator, supercooling may be performed by increasing an output as compared with the existing output. In a case where the specific component is a washing machine or a washer, hot water may be stored by driving a heater earlier than the time when the heater is to be operated. Alternatively, in a case where the specific component recognizes an off-peak signal (e.g., at a point of time of recognition), electricity may be stored.","Meanwhile, in a case where the specific component  is the energy storage component  or , the energy storage component  or  may store electricity by receiving the electricity supplied from the UAN, for example, when electricity storage cost is smaller than a predetermined value.","However, in a case where the energy storage component is connected to the energy generation component  that constitutes the HAN, it may continuously store energy generated by the energy generation component  until the electricity storage is completed. That is, the energy generated while the energy generation component  generates energy may be stored in the energy storage component .","The presence of completion of the electricity storage is determined while the energy storage component  or  stores electricity. In a case where the electricity storage is completed, the electricity supply for the electricity storage is cut off. Specifically, the presence of completion of the electricity storage may be determined using a sensor that senses the voltage, temperature or current of the energy storage component  or . The cutoff of the electricity supply may be performed using a switch (or circuit breaker) provided to a supply stage through which the electricity is supplied to the energy storage unit  or .","The electricity storage cost may be cost consumed in the electricity storage for a specific time period or electricity cost at a specific time.","As an example, in a case where the electricity storage cost is in an off-peak section (in a case where the specific component recognizes low-cost information which will be described later), the energy storage component  or  may store electricity. Alternatively, in a case where an on-peak section corresponds to an allowance section (in a case where the specific component recognizes high-cost information which will be described later), the energy storage component  or  may store in the on-peak section. In this instance, the allowance section is a section in which a power consumption information value is less than a predetermined reference. The power consumption information value may be a electricity cost, a power consumption amount, a time range, or the like. The predetermined reference may be a predetermined cost, a predetermined power consumption amount, a predetermined time, or the like. The predetermined reference may be a relative value or absolute value, and may be changed automatically or manually.","The energy storage component  or  may store a counter electromotive force generated when an energy consumption component that is rotatably operated or a motor provided to the energy consumption component is stopped (rotated).","Alternatively, the energy storage component  or  may store electricity using an energy consumption component that is rotatably operated or a motor provided to the energy consumption component. For example, in a case where the energy consumption component is a refrigerator, the energy storage component  or  may store electricity generated when a fan motor provided to the refrigerator is rotated (the fan motor may serve as a power generator or may be connected to the power generator). Alternatively, in a case where the energy consumption component is a washing machine, the energy storage component  or  may store electricity generated when a motor that rotates a drum for accommodating the laundry is rotated. In a case where the energy consumption component is a cooking appliance, the energy storage component  or  may store electricity generated when a motor for rotating a cooling fan is rotated. In a case where the energy consumption component is an air cleaner, the energy storage component  or  may store electricity generated when a motor for rotating a fan is rotated. That is, in this embodiment, in a case where a motor is provided regardless of the kind of the energy consumption component, the energy storage component  or  may store electricity generated when the motor is rotated. Alternatively, in a case where a power generator is connected to a fan rotated by the flow of air (natural flow or forcible flow), the energy storage component  or  may store electricity generated by the power generator.","The electricity stored in the energy component  or  may be supplied to one or more energy consumption components . In a case where electricity cost is higher than a reference value, the electricity stored in the energy component  or  may be supplied to the energy consumption component . As an example, in a case where the electricity cost is an on-peak (in a case where the specific component recognizes the high-cost information), the electricity stored in the energy storage component  or  may be supplied to the energy consumption component . In a case where the electricity cost is an off-peak (in a case where the specific component recognizes the low-cost information) but is close to the on-peak, the electricity stored in the energy storage component  or  may be supplied to the energy consumption component. If the electricity stored in the energy storage component  or  is less than a predetermined value, electricity generated in the energy generation component  is supplied to the energy consumption component. Thus, it is possible to prevent the operation of the energy consumption component from being stopped due to the cutoff of the electricity supply while the energy consumption component is operated.","In a case where the supply of electricity generated in the energy generation component  is cut off by interruption of electric power, the electricity stored in the energy component  or  may be supplied to the energy consumption component. In a case where the energy consumption component is an electric product, the electricity stored in the energy storage component  or  may be supplied to a communication unit or control unit provided to the electric product.","The electricity stored in the energy component  or  may be supplied to a portion of a plurality of energy consumption components. As an example, the stored electricity may be supplied to an electric product such as a refrigerator required in continuous operation among a plurality of electric products. Alternatively, the stored electricity may be supplied to an energy consumption component with relatively low power among a plurality of energy consumption components that constitute one electric product. It will be apparent that the stored electricity is supplied to an energy consumption component with high power. Alternatively, when a course using a relatively small amount of power is performed among a plurality of courses in which an electric product is performed, the stored electricity may be supplied. It will be apparent that the stored electricity may be supplied even when a course using a large amount of power is performed.","Meanwhile, in a case where electricity is generated and stored by a fan or motor as described above, the electricity stored in the energy storage component  or  may be supplied to an energy consumption unit with relatively low power. As an example, the electricity stored in the energy storage component  or  may be supplied to an LED lamp, a display, a control unit, a communication unit, a low-power heater, or the like. Alternatively, in a case where the energy consumption component performs a plurality of courses, the electricity stored in the energy storage component  or  may be supplied to the energy consumption component in a course that requires low power.","The energy storage component  may be built in connected to one energy consumption component. Alternatively, a plurality of energy storage components  may be built in or connected to a plurality of energy consumption components, respectively. Alternatively, a plurality of energy storage components  may be built in or connected to one energy consumption component. The plurality of energy storage components  may be connected to one another to share the stored electricity.","Among the information related to energy, the on-peak information, the curtailment information and information on the deficiency of the amount of electricity supplied may be recognized as high-cost information considered that energy cost is relatively expensive. In this instance, the section in which the high-cost information is recognized by the specific component may referred to as a low-cost section.","On the other hand, among the information related to energy, the off-peak information, the energy increment information and the information on the excess of the amount of electricity supplied may be recognized as low-cost information considered that energy cost is relatively cheap. In this instance, the section in which the low-cost information is recognized by the specific component may be referred to as a low-cost section.","The information related to the fluctuation of the energy cost (high-cost or low-cost information) may be recognized as information for determining a power saving driving scheme of the specific component (e.g., the energy consumption component). That is, the information related to the fluctuation of the energy cost may be recognized by dividing a time slot (time period) based on energy cost or pricing period (pricing zone) for determining a driving scheme of the specific component into at least two or more.","A high period means a high price time period (period of high cost) or a high pricing period and a low period means a low price time period (period of low cost) and a low pricing period.","As an example, in a case where the information related to energy is recognized as a Boolean signal, the time slot (time period) based on energy cost or pricing period (pricing zone) for determining a driving scheme of the specific component may be divided into two. In a case where the information related to energy is divided into a plurality of levels or recognized as real-time information, the time period or pricing period may be divided into three or more.","Meanwhile, the information related to energy cost corresponding to at least time may be recognized as information for determining a power saving driving scheme of the specific component. That is, the information related to energy cost may be recognized by dividing a time slot (time period) or pricing zone (time period) into at least two or more. As described above, the divided time period or pricing period may be determined based on the kinds of the recognized information (the Boolean signal, the plurality of levels and the real-time information).","In other words, the information related to fluctuation of energy cost may be recognized by dividing a determination factor for driving the specific component into two or more, and functions on time and energy cost may be included in the determination factor.","In a case where the information related to energy cost is divided into two levels or more, the driving scheme of the specific component may be determined according to the information divided into levels.","On the other hand, in a case where the recognized information related to energy cost is not divided based on a specific reference (e.g., real-time cost information), it is compared with predetermined information, and the driving scheme of the specific component may be determined based on the compared result.","Here, the predetermined information may be reference information (e.g. reference value) for dividing the information related to energy cost, and the compared result may be whether not the information related to energy cost is more or less than the reference value.","Specifically, each of the kinds of information related to energy may be divided into first information  that is raw information, second information  that is refined information, and third information  that is information for performing the function of the specific component. That is, the first information is a raw data, the second information is a refined data, and the third information is a command for performing the function of the specific component.","The information related to energy is included a signal, and the signal is transmitted. In this instance, one or more of the first to third information may be transmitted several times while the content of the information is not converted but only the signal including the information is converted.","For example, as shown in , a component that receives a signal including the first information may convert only the signal and transmit a new signal including the first information to another component.","Therefore, it is described in this embodiment that the conversion of signal is a different concept from the conversion of information. In this instance, it can be readily understood that when the first information is converted into the second information, the signal including the first information is also converted into the signal including the second information.","However, the third information may be transmitted several times in the state that the content of the third information is converted or in the state that only the signal including the third information is converted while the content of the third information is identically maintained.","Specifically, in a case where the first information is raw information on time-based pricing, the second information may be refined information on the time-based pricing. The refined information on the time-based pricing is information in which the time-based pricing is divided into a plurality of levels or analysis information. The third information is a command generated based on the second information.","The specific component may generate, transmit or receive one or more of the first to third information. The first to third information are not necessarily transmitted or received in sequence. Only a plurality of pieces of third information without the first and second information may be transmitted in sequence or parallel. Alternatively, the first and third information may be transmitted or received together, the second and third information may be transmitted or received together, or the first and second information may be transmitted or received together.","As an example, in a case where the specific component receives the first information, it may transmit the second information or may transmit the second and third information.","In a case where the specific information receives only the third information, it may generate and transmit new third information.","Meanwhile, in the relation between two pieces of information, one is a message and the other is a response for the message. Thus, each of the components that constitute the network system may transmit or receive a message. In a case where each of the components receives a message, it may respond to the message. Therefore, in the case of an individual component, the transmission of a message is a relative concept with the response for the message.","The message may include a data (first or second information) and\/or a command (third information).","The command (third information) may include a command for storing the data, a command for generating the data, a command for processing the data (including the generation of an additional data), a command for generating an additional command, a command for transmitting the additionally generated command, a command for transmitting a received command, and the like.","In this specification, the response for the received message means storage of the data, processing of the data (including generation of an additional data), generation of a new command, transmission of the newly generated command, simple transmission of a received command (including generation of a command for transmitting the received command to another component), operation, transmission of the stored information, transmission of an acknowledge message (acknowledge character or negative acknowledge character), or the like.","For example, in a case where the message is first information, the specific component that receives the first information may generate second information by processing the first information, or may generate the second information and new third information, as a response for the message.","The specific component that receives the message may provide a response related to energy. Here, the term \u201cresponse\u201d may be understood as a concept including an operation through which the specific component can perform a function. As an example, the HAN  may perform an operation related to energy by receiving a message.","The response (operation) related to energy, provided by the specific component, will be described in detail. For example, the specific component may be an energy consumption component.","The energy consumption component may be driven so that the energy cost when it is driven based on the recognition for energy information is reduced as compared with that when it is driven without the recognition for energy information.","The specific component may include a plurality of modes in which it is driven to perform its own function. The plurality of modes are a first mode and a second mode in which energy cost is relatively saved as compared with that in the first mode. The specific component may be driven in at least one of the first and second modes.","Here, the first mode may be a general mode and the second mode may be a power saving mode. Alternatively, the first and second modes may all be power saving modes.","The general mode may be understood as a mode in which the function of the specific component is performed without recognition of energy information. On the other hand, the power saving mode may be understood as a mode in which the function of the specific component is performed based on the recognition of energy information so as to save energy cost.","In a case where the first and second modes are power saving modes, the first mode may be specified as a driving scheme for saving energy cost and the second mode may be specified as a driving scheme in which the energy cost in the second mode is more saved than that in the first mode.","Meanwhile, in a case where the specific component (e.g., the energy consumption component) is driven, at least a portion is recognized in a driving scheme including at least drive time and course. In this case, an unrecognized portion may be generated so as to save energy cost, and a recognized portion may be converted into another scheme.","For example, at least a portion of the driving scheme may be recognized under the control of the energy management component, the control of the energy consumption component, or the like. In a case where a specific driving scheme is further required so as to save energy cost, an unrecognized portion of the driving scheme may be newly generated, and a recognized portion may be converted into another scheme so as to save energy.","It will be apparent that the process of generating the unrecognized portion may be omitted. In this case, the process of converting the recognized portion into another scheme. On the other hand, the process of converting the recognized portion into another scheme may be omitted. In this case, the process of newly generating the unrecognized portion may be performed.","The drive time may include a drive start time or drive end time. The course may include a drive period of the specific component and the power of the specific component.","The generated scheme or converted scheme may be a scheme recommended by the specific component so as to save energy cost. Here, the specific component may be an energy consumption component (control component) or the energy management component.","As an example, in a case where the recognized scheme is a specific drive time, the specific drive time may be converted into another time so as to save energy cost, and a specific course may be generated.","On the other hand, in a case where the recognized scheme is a specific course, the specific course may be converted into another course so as to save energy cost, and a specific time may be generated.","Under the control described above, a change in time or power may be made with respect to the output function of the specific component based on time.","The generated scheme or converted scheme may be performed within a set range. That is, in the process of recognizing at least a portion of the driving scheme, the generation or conversion of the driving scheme may be performed within a predetermined reference in which the recognized portion appears (e.g., restriction set by a user, constraint set under the control of the energy management component or energy consumption component, or the like).","Therefore, in a case where the set range is out of the predetermined reference, it is restricted to generate the unrecognized portion or to convert the recognized portion into another scheme.","Another embodiment is proposed.","Cost information may further included in the recognized driving scheme. That is, in a case where the cost information is recognized, a portion related to the drive time or course may be generated. The generated driving scheme may be recommended.","Meanwhile, a response of the specific component based on the information related to the fluctuation of the energy cost (high-cost or low-cost information), e.g., a power control for power saving driving, may be performed. An output decrease (including an output of zero) or output increase may be included in the output control.","It is as described above that the output is decreased or zero, maintained or increased based on the recognition for the information (on-peak or off-peak) related to energy cost.","If high-cost information is recognized, the output may be zero or decreased. Specifically, the output in the recognition of the high-cost information may be decreased as compared with that in the recognition of low-cost information. As described above, the decrease of the output may be previously determined before the specific component is operated, or may be changed when the high-cost information is recognized posterior to the start of the operation of the specific component.","In a case where the output of the specific component is zero or decreased, the function to be performed by the specific component may be lost as compared with a normal case. Therefore, a response for restoring the lost function may be performed.","As an example, after the output of the specific component is decreased, the specific component may be controlled so that the total operation time of the specific component is increased or so that the output is increased in at least a time period.","In other words, if specific reference information related to energy information is recognized in a period after the output of the specific component is controlled, the response for controlling the output may be released. Here, the term \u201cperiod\u201d may be divided based on a point of time when the high-cost information is recognized.","The total operation time may be understood as a time approaching a specific target in the process of performing the function of the specific component. As an example, in a case where the specific component is an electric appliance (washing machine, drying machine, cooking appliance or the like) intermittently driven (or driven in a specific course), the total operation time may be understood as a time until a corresponding course is completed.","On the other hand, in a case where the specific component is an electric appliance (refrigerator, water purifier, or the like) driven at normal times, the total operation time may be understood as a time approaching a target set for performing the function of the specific component. For example, the set target may be a target temperature, a target amount of ice produced, or a target amount of clean water in the refrigerator.","The total operation time may be increased as compared with the operation time set before the output of the specific component is decreased. In a case where the output of the specific component is not decreased, the total operation time may be increased as compared with the operation time of the specific component. However, although the total operation time of the specific component is increased, the specific component is controlled so that the total energy cost generated through the drive of the specific component can be saved as compared with that when the output of the specific component is not decreased.","If the high-cost information is recognized, the output of the specific component may be increased.","However, although the output is increased at a point of time when the high-cost information is recognized, the total output of the specific component during the entire driving period may be decreased or maintained as compared with that when the specific component is operated under a normal output. Alternatively, although the output is increased at a point of time when the high-cost information is recognized, the total power consumption or total time-based pricing of the specific component during the entire driving period may be decreased as compared with that when the specific component is operated under the normal output.","If the low-cost information is recognized, the output of the specific component may be increased. For example, in a case where the operation reservation of the specific component is set up, the driving of the specific component may be started before the setup time, or a component having a large output in a plurality of components may be first driven. In a case where the specific component is a refrigerator, supercooling may be performed by increasing an output as compared with the existing output. In a case where the specific component is a washing machine or a washer, hot water may be stored by driving a heater earlier than the time when the heater is to be operated. Alternatively, in a case where the specific component recognizes an off-peak signal (e.g., at a point of time of recognition), electricity may be stored.","Meanwhile, in a case of a specific condition (additional condition) is generated based on the information related to the fluctuation of the energy cost (high-cost or low-cost information), the response of the specific component, e.g., the output control for power saving driving, may be limited. That is, the output of the specific component may be maintained.","Here, the term \u201climitation\u201d may be understood as the release of the output control performed or not performed.","The specific condition includes a case where influence on energy cost is minute even though the output control of the specific component is not performed or a case where it is necessary to prevent a function to be performed by the specific component from being degraded when the output of the specific component is controlled.","Whether or not the influence on the energy cost is minute may be determined based on a predetermined reference (time-based pricing, power consumption or information on operation time). The predetermined reference may be a relative or absolute value.","The case where the function to be performed by the specific component is degraded may be considered as a case where the specific component is a defrosting heater, for example.","In a case where it is controlled to decrease the output in a high-cost time period and to increase the output in the low-cost time period, the driving of the defrosting heater is more frequently performed than that during a normal time (setup period). In this case, the temperature of a storage room in the refrigerator is increased, and thus, the control of the output can be limited.","Meanwhile, the specific component  may include a display unit  for displaying information. In this embodiment, the term \u201cinformation display\u201d means that visual, auditory, olfactory, and tactile information is known to the outside. Also, the display unit  may include a touch screen for selecting or inputting information. Alternatively, the specific component  may include a separate input unit for inputting information by cable or radio.","All the information (energy information or additional information except the energy information) described above may be displayed on the display unit . One of the energy information and additional information may be displayed, or two or more pieces of information may be simultaneously displayed. That is, two or more pieces of information may be simultaneously displayed on the display unit . As an example, in a case where two or more pieces of information are simultaneously displayed, any one of the information is selected. Then, the selected screen may be enlarged, and the unselected screen may be reduced. For another example, if any one of the two or more pieces of information is selected, the selected screen may be enlarged, and the unselected screen may be disappear. In a case where specific information is selected and the selected screen is enlarged, information more specific than the previous information or information different from the previous information may be displayed on the enlarged screen. For example, in a case where the selected information is character, graphic information may be displayed on the enlarged screen. Alternatively, two or more pieces of information may be sequentially displayed on the enlarged screen. In a case where two or more pieces of information are displayed on the display unit , two or more relative positions may be varied.","Information except energy cost information and energy cost may be displayed on the displayed unit . The energy cost information may include current cost, past cost, or estimated cost in the future. The energy cost information may include not only information on cost information in a specific period or time but also information on cost used with respect to the operation of a component, cost used in the present, cost to be used (estimation cost), or the like.","The information except the energy cost information may include information on energy reduction, emergency situation, grid safety, power generation quantity, operation priority, energy consumption, energy supply amount, information (e.g., cost change rate, average cost, level or the like) newly generated based on two or more pieces of information (one or more pieces of energy cost information and\/or information except the one or more pieces of energy cost information), and the like. Here, the energy consumption may be energy consumption used two or more home networks, and may be simultaneously or selectively displayed.","The information on energy consumption may include information on past consumption, current consumption and estimated consumption in the future. The information on energy consumption may include information on accumulated consumption for a specific period (time), average consumption, increasing rate of consumption, decreasing rate of consumption, maximum consumption, minimum consumption, and the like.","The additional information may include one or more of environment information, time information, information related to the one or more components, information related to another component, and information related to a user using the one or more components. The environment information may include one or more of information related to carbon dioxide emission rate, concentration of carbon dioxide in air, temperature, humidity, precipitation, presence of rainfall, amount of solar radiation, amount of wind. The time information may include one or more of current time information, time information related to energy, and information related to an operation of the one or more components.","In addition to the information described above, information refined based on at least one information or newly generated information may also be displayed on the display unit .","In a case where the specific component  is the energy storage component  or , the presence of use of the stored electricity, the remaining amount of the store electricity and the like may be displayed. If the remaining amount of the stored electricity is less than a predetermined value, alarm information may be displayed.","The information displayed on the display unit  may include one or more of information on number, character, sentence, figure, shape, symbol, image and light. The information displayed on the display unit  may include one or more of information on graph for each time or period, level, table. One or more of the shape, color, brightness, size, position, alarm period, alarm time of the information displayed on the display unit  may be varied.","A currently operable function (or menu) may be displayed on the display unit . Alternatively, among a plurality of functions, operable and inoperable function may be divided by size, color, position and the like, and then displayed on the display unit . Alternatively, in a case where separate input units are provided, only an input unit for selecting an operable function may be activated, or an input unit for selecting an operable function and an input unit for selecting an inoperable function may be displayed in different colors. The target or display method of information displayed on the display unit  may be set and changed by a user, or may be changed automatically.","In a case where a condition for informing the user of information is satisfied, specific information may be displayed on the display unit . It will be apparent that a portion of a plurality of pieces of information may be continuously displayed in the state that a component is turned on. The display time of the information may be changed or set automatically or manually.","If specific information (one or more pieces of information) is selected using the input unit, the selected information may be displayed. If a user contacts a portion of a component, e.g., an input unit, a handle, a display or the like, regardless of information display selection, or operates one or more buttons or knobs that constitute the input unit, a portion of the information may be displayed. In this instance, the information to be displayed may be set or changed. It will be apparent that a sensing unit for sensing a user's contact may be provided to the component. Alternatively, the specific information may be displayed by installation environment or variation of outdoor environment. Alternatively, the specific information may be displayed when the specific component receives new information. Alternatively, the specific information may be displayed when the kind or state of the specific component is changed. As an example, if a light emitting unit is turned off in an off-peak section and an on-peak section comes, the light emitting unit may be turned on. Alternatively, the specific information may be automatically displayed when the operation or state of the component is changed. As an example, in a case where the mode of the component is changed, information related to the changed mode may be automatically displayed.","Meanwhile, the display unit  may be separably connected or fixed to the component . In a case where the display unit  is separable from the component , it may perform wired or wireless communication with the component  (or control unit of the component). In a case where the display unit is fixed to the component , it may also perform wired or wireless communication with the component .","In a case where the display unit  is separable from the component , a communication unit and an input unit for inputting or selecting information may be provided to the display unit . Thus, information can be inputted or selected through the input unit in the state that the display unit  is separated from the component . The communication unit may be provided to the component , and only the display unit  may be separated from the component . The display unit  may be the energy management component , the energy metering component  or the central management component , or may be a separate control apparatus.","In a case where the display unit  is provided with a communication unit, a communication unit may also provided to the component . In a case where the display unit  and the component  are in the state that they are communicated with each other and information is transmitted\/receive through a communication signal, the display unit  may be used. That is, in a case where the intensity of a signal is secured so that information can be included in the communication signal, the display unit  may be in an available state. On the other hand, in a case where the display unit  is not communicated with the component  or information is not included in the communication signal due to the weak intensity of the signal, the display unit may be in an unavailable state. One of the display unit  and the component  transmits a communication signal, and the other of the display unit  and the component  transmits a response signal. The presence of use of the display unit  may be determined by the presence of reception of the communication and response signals and the signal intensity. That is, in a case where any one of the display unit  and the component  does not receive a signal or the intensity of received signal is less than reference intensity, it may be determined that the display unit  is unavailable. Any one of the display unit  and the component  may increase the intensity of a transmission signal until it receives a response signal of which intensity is more than the reference intensity.","Information for informing the user of the presence of use of the display unit  may be displayed on the display unit  or the component . If it is recognized that the display unit  is unavailable, the component  may be controlled to increase its unique performance, to perform a door locking function or to limit its operation. Alternatively, the power of the component may be off while maintaining the power of a communication apparatus (modem) required for performing communication in the network system. Alternatively, the power of the component may be turned off while maintaining only a memory function for storing the state information of the component.","Meanwhile, sensors may be provided to the respective display unit  and component  so as to sense the presence of mounting of the display unit . As an example, the presence of mounting of the display unit  may be determined when the component  is operated. Each of the sensors may be a vibration sensor for sensing vibration. If the display unit  is mounted on the component , vibration generated in the operation of the component  can be transferred to the display unit . Therefore, in a case where the difference between the values of vibrations respectively sensed by the sensors is less than a predetermined value, it may be recognized that the display unit  is mounted on the component . If it is recognized that the display unit  is mounted on the component , the operation of the component  may be controlled so that vibration or noise generated in the operation of the component  is decreased.","As an example, in a case where the component  is a washing machine or drier, the rotation speed of a motor may be decreased. In a case where the component  is a refrigerator, the driving period of a compressor may be decreased. On the contrary, if it is recognized that the display unit  is separated from the component , the component may be controlled to increase its unique performance, to perform a door locking function or to limit its operation.","As another example, each of the sensors may be a temperature sensor. In a case where the difference between the values of temperatures respectively sensed by the sensors is less than a predetermined value, it may be recognized that the display unit  is mounted on the component .","In the state that the display unit  is separated from the component , an auxiliary display unit may be provided to the component  so as to enable the operation of the component . The presence of operation of the auxiliary display unit may be determined based on the presence of use of the display unit . As an example, if the display unit  is separated from the component  or is unavailable, the auxiliary display unit may be turned on.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0193","num":"0192"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5"]},"Referring to , first and second component  and  that constitute the network system may perform wired or wireless communication by means of a communication unit . The first and second components  and  may perform unidirectional or bidirectional communication.","In a case where the two components  and  perform wired communication, the communication unit  may be a simple communication line or power line communication means. It will be apparent that the power line communication means may include communicators (e.g., a modem or the like) respectively connected to the two components.","In a case where the two components  and  perform wireless communication, the communication unit  may include a first communicator  connected to the first component  and a second communicator  connected to the second component . In this case, the first and second communicators  and  perform wireless communication with each other.","As an example, if any one of the first and second communicators is powered on, one of the two communicators may transmit a network participation request signal, and the other of the two communicators may transmit a permission signal. As another example, if any one of the first and second communicators is powered on, the powered-on communicator may transmit a network participation request signal to a communicator previously participated in the network, and the communicator that receives the request signal may transmit a permission signal to the powered-on communicator.","In a case where a communicator that recognizes energy information determines that an error occurs in the received information in the state that a specific component participates in the network, the information is re-requested. For example, in a case where the first communicator receives energy information from the second communicator but an error occurs in the received information, the first communicator may request the second communicator to re-transmit the energy information. If the first communicator does not receive normal information for a predetermined time or number of times, it is determined that the first communicator has an error. In this case, information for informing a user of the error may be displayed in the first communicator or the first component .","The first component  may be a component that constitutes the UAN  or a component that constitutes the HAN .","The second component  may be a component that constitutes the UAN  or a component that constitutes the HAN .","The first and second components  and  may be the same kind of component or different kinds of components.","Components may be joined in the UAN  or the HAN .","Specifically, addresses may be assigned to a plurality of components, e.g., first and second components, respectively. Here, the addresses are necessary for performing communication between the components and can be mapped to at least a group.","The address may be understood as values respectively converted from the unique code of the first or second component. That is, at least a portion of the components that constitute the network system may have an unchangeable\/unique code, and the code may be converted into an address for building a network.","In other words, product codes for at least some of the plurality of components capable of constituting first and second networks may be converted into different network codes based on the constituted networks.","As an example, the product code may be a unique code determined in production of electric appliances or a code separately provided for the registration of a network. The product code may be converted into an identity (ID) for identifying a network to which the electric appliance is to be registered.","The first and second networks may be networks that constitute the UAN  or networks that constitute the HAN . On the other hand, the first and second networks may be the UAN  and the HAN , respectively. Alternatively, the first and second networks may be the HAN  and the UAN , respectively.","A first component and a second component for allowing the first component to participate in the network may be included in the plurality of components that constitute the network. For example, the first component may be an electric appliance and the second component may be a server.","Any one of the first and second components transmits a request signal for participating in the network, and the other of the first and second components may transmit a permission signal.","That is, a signal may be transmitted\/received between the first and second components, and whether or not to participate in the network may be determined based on the transmission time or number of the signal.","As an example, the first component transmits a test signal to the second component, and it is determined whether or not a response signal from the second component is transmitted to the first component. In a case where the response signal is not transmitted, the first component re-transmits the test signal, and it is re-determined whether or not a response signal from the second component is transmitted to the first component. By repeating such a process, if the transmission number of the test signal exceeds the setting number of the test signal, it may be determined that the second component does not participate in the network.","Meanwhile, the first component may transmit the test signal to the second component. If a response signal from the second component is not transmitted within a setup time, it may be determined that the second component does not participate in the network.","The first and second communicators  and  may have the same structure. Hereinafter, the first and second communicators  and  will be referred to as a communicator  and .","The communicator  and  may include a first communication part  for communication with the first component , a second communication part  for communication with the second component , a memory  for storing information received from the first component  and information received from the second component , a processor  for performing information processing, and a power supply  for supplying power to the communicator  and .","Specifically, the communication language (or scheme) of the first communication part  may be identical to or different from that of the second communication part .","Two kinds of information respectively received from the two components may be stored in the memory . The two kinds of information may be stored in a single sector or may be respectively stored in sectors. In any case, an area in which the information received from the first component  may be referred to as a first memory , and an area in which the information received from the second component  may be referred to as a second memory .","The processor  may generate first information or generate second and third information based on information received from the component or another communicator.","As an example, in a case where the communicator  and  receives the first information, it may generate information or sequentially generate the information and the second information by processing a data. Alternatively, in a case where the communicator  and  receives the first information, it may generate the second and third information by processing a data. In a case where the communicator  and  receives the third information, it may new third information.","For example, in a case where the second component is an energy consumption component (electric home appliance, component that constitutes the electric home appliance, or the like), the second communicator may generate a command for reducing energy consumption. In a case where the second component is an energy generation component, energy distribution component or energy storage component, the second communicator  may generate a command for energy generation time, generation amount, energy distribution time, distribution amount, energy storage time, storage amount or the like. In this case, the second communicator  serves as an energy management component.","The power supply  may receive electricity supplied from the components  and  or may receive electricity supplied from a separate power source. Alternatively, the power supply  may be a battery or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0221","num":"0220"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},"Hereinafter, for convenience of illustration, a communication performing process between the second component  and the second communicator  will be described as an example. A communication performing process between the first component  and the first communicator  may be identically applied to that between the second component  and the second communicator .","Referring to , the second communicator  receives a message from the first communicator . The second communicator  may receive a message in real time or by periods without transmitting a request for the message to the first communicator , or may receive a message as a response for the request for the message to the first communicator . Alternatively, the second communicator  may receive a message by requesting information to the first communicator  at a point of time when it is initially turned on. Then, the second communicator  may receive information in real time or by periods from the first communicator  without a request for information.","The information received from the first communicator  is stored in the memory . The second communicator  transmits a message to the second component  as a response for the message. In this instance, the message transmitted to the second component  relates to new information different from the information previously stored in the memory , or information generated in the processor .","Then, the second component  transmits an acknowledge character (ack) or negative acknowledge character (Nak) to the second communicator  as a response for the message. The second component  performs a function (generation of a command, operation, or the like) based on the received information, or waits for performing the function.","Meanwhile, the second communicator  requests component information to the second component  in real time or by periods. As an example, the component information may be component state information or information on a component unique code, a manufacturer, a service name code, an electricity use amount, and the like. Then, the second component  transmits component information to the second communicator  as a response for the request. The component information is stored in the memory  of the second communicator .","If the second communicator  receives a message for requesting the component information from the first communicator , it transmits the component information stored in the memory  to the first communicator  as a response for the message. Alternatively, the second communicator  transmits the component information stored in the memory  to the first communicator  in real time or by periods.","The second communicator  may transmit the information of the first component, stored in the memory, to the first component together with the information received from the first component. Alternatively, the second communicator  may transmit the information of the first component, stored in the memory, to the first component, separately from transmitting the information received from the first component.","The second communicator  stores the information of the second component  in the memory . Hence, in a case where the second communicator  receives a message for requesting the component information from the first communicator , it transmits the component information stored in the memory  directly to the first communicator  without a request for information to the second component , and thus, the communication load of the second component  can be reduced. That is, the second component becomes a virtual component.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0230","num":"0229"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},"Hereinafter, for convenience of illustration, a communication performing process between the second component  and the second communicator  will be described as an example. A communication performing process between the first component  and the first communicator  may be identically applied to that between the second component  and the second communicator .","Referring to , the second communicator  receives a message from the first communicator . The second communicator  may receive a message in real time or by periods without transmitting a request for the message to the first communicator , or may receive a message as a response for the request for the message to the first communicator . Alternatively, the second communicator  may receive a message by requesting information to the first communicator  at a point of time when it is initially turned on. Then, the second communicator  may receive information in real time or by periods from the first communicator  without a request for information.","If the second communicator  receives a message for requesting information from the second component , it transmits a message to the second component  as a response for the message for requesting the information. In this instance, the message transmitted to the second component  relates to new information different from the information previously stored in the memory , or information generated in the processor . Alternatively, the information transmitted to the second component  may be information received from the first component.","The second component  performs a function based on the received information or waits for performing the function.","Meanwhile, the second component  transmits component information to the second component  in real time or by periods. As an example, the component information may be component state information or information on a component unique code, a manufacturer, a service name code, an electricity use amount, and the like.","As described above, the electric use amount may be detected by the smart meter. In a case where the electricity use amount is included in the information of the second component , the correction of an actual electricity use amount may be performed by comparing the information of the second component  with the information of the smart meter.","Then, the second communicator  stores the information of the second component  in the memory , and transmits an acknowledge character (ack) or negative acknowledge character (Nak) to the second component  as a response for the message.","If the second communicator  receives a message for requesting component information from the first communicator , it transmits the information of the second component , stored in the memory , to the first communicator  as a response for the message. Alternatively, the second communicator  the information of the second component , stored in the memory , to the first communicator  in real time or by periods.","The second communicator  stores the information of the second component  in the memory . Hence, in a case where the second communicator  receives the message for requesting the component information from the first communicator , it transmits the information stored in the memory  directly to the first communicator  without transmitting a request for information to the second component , and thus, the communication load of the second component  can be reduced. That is, the second communicator  becomes a virtual component.","<Applications>","In the following descriptions, the first and second components may be reversed to each other, and therefore, overlapping descriptions will be omitted. For example, in a case where the first component is an electric home appliance and the second component is an energy management component, description in a case where the first component is an energy management component and the second component is an electric home appliance will be omitted.","Information transmitted\/received by each of the components may be all the information described above. Particularly, specific information may be transmitted\/received for each of the components.","The energy generation components  and  may transmit\/receive information related to energy generation amount, and the like. The energy distribution components  and  may transmit\/receive information related to energy distribution amount, distribution time, and the like. The energy storage components  and  may transmit\/receive information related to energy storage amount, storage time, and the like. The energy metering components  and  may transmit\/receive information related to energy consumption amount, and the like. The energy management components  and  may transmit\/receive information related to energy generation, distribution, storage, consumption, cost, reliability, emergency situation, and the like.","(1) Case where Second Component is One Component of HAN","The second component  may be an energy consumption component , e.g., a heater, motor, compressor, display or the like. In this case, the first component  may be a MICOM or energy consumption component  as an example. The MICOM or energy consumption component  may transmit a message for reducing energy consumption to another energy consumption component . Then, the another energy consumption component  may perform an operation for reducing energy, for example.","As another example, the energy consumption component  may be an electric home appliance. In this case, the first component  may be an energy storage component , an energy consumption component  (electric home appliance), an energy management component , an energy metering component , a central management component , a web server component , or a component that constitutes the UAN .","In this instance, an energy management function may be included or not included in the first component  except the energy management component .","In a case where an energy management function or solution is not included in the first component , it may be included in the communication unit or may be included in the MICOM of the second component . In this case, the energy management function is related to the consumption of energy.","As still another example, the second component  may be an energy generation component , an energy distribution component  or an energy storage component . In this case, the first component  may be an energy management component , a central management component , a web server component  or a component that constitutes the UAN .","A message may be transmitted to the second component . Here, the message may include energy generation time, generation amount or the like, energy distribution time, distribution amount or the like, and energy storage time, storage amount or the like.","In this instance, an energy management function may be included or not included in the first component  except the energy management component .","In a case where an energy management function or solution is not included in the first component , it may be included in the communication unit. In this case, the energy management function is related to the generation, distribution and storage of energy.","As still another example, the second component may be an energy metering component . In this case, the first component  may be a central management component , a web server component  or a component that constitutes the UAN .","An energy management function may be included or not included in the energy metering component. In a case where the energy management function is included in the energy metering component , the energy metering component  performs the same operation as the EMS.","In a case where an energy management function or solution is included in the energy metering component , it may be included in the communication unit or may be included in the second component .","As still another example, the second component  may be a central management component . In this case, the first component  may be a web server component  or a component that constitutes the UAN .","(2) Case where Second Component is One Component of UAN","The first component  may be a component that constitutes the UAN . In this case, the first and second components  and  may be the same kind of component or different kinds of components.","An energy management function may be included in the first component , the second component  or the communication unit.","The energy management function included in a specific component or the energy management function included in the energy management component  may be related to generation amount, distribution amount, storage amount, energy use amount of a component that constitutes the HAN .","In this specification, an example capable of constituting the network system has been described. However, any component not mentioned in this specification may be a first or second component that performs communication through the communication unit. For example, an automobile may be a second component, and the energy management component  may be a first component.","(3) Case where One of First and Second Components Communicates with Third Component","Although the communication between two components has been described in the aforementioned examples, each of the first and second components may perform communication with one or more components (a third component to an n-th component).","In this case, the relation of the first or second component that performs communication with the third component and the like may be one of the aforementioned examples.","For example, the first component may be a component that constitutes the UAN, the second component may be an energy management component  that communicates with the first component, and the third component may be an energy consumption component  that communicates with the second component. In this instance, one or more of the three components may communicate with another component.","In this specification, the first to n-th components may be components that constitute the UAN or components that constitute the HAN. Alternatively, a portion of the components may be components that constitute the UAN, or another portion of the components may be components that constitute the HAN.","Hereinafter, third and fourth embodiments will be described. A difference between these embodiments and the aforementioned embodiments will be mainly described, and descriptions and reference numerals will be quoted to elements of these embodiments identical to those of the aforementioned embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0268","num":"0267"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},"Referring to , a first component  may communicate with second to fifth components , ,  and . Hereinafter, it will be described as an example that the first component  is a central management component (home server), the second and third components  and  are energy consumption components (electric home appliances), the fourth component  is an energy metering component (smart meter), and the fifth component  is a component that constitutes the UAN. The components may communicate with each other by means of a communication unit. In the network system illustrated in , each of the components is directly connected to the first component  to communicate with the first component . However, in a case where each of the components , ,  and  is connected to new components to communicate with the new components, the network system may be extended and operated by the new components.","The second and third components  and  may be the same kind of component or different kinds of components. In this embodiment, it will be described as an example that the second and third components  and  are different kinds of energy consumption components.","The first component  may simply transmit information received from the fourth component  and\/or the fifth component  to the second component  and\/or the third component , or may process the received information and transmit the processed information.","The first component  may simply transmit information received from the second component  and\/or the third component  to the fourth component  and\/or the fifth component  (a signal may be converted), or may process the received information and transmit the processed information (the information is converted.","The first component  includes a communication unit  for performing communication with another component, a central manager  for managing the entire operation and\/or information processing of the first component, and an application programming interface  (hereinafter, referred to as an API) for performing an interface between the communication unit  and the central manager  (specifically, application software).","The communication unit  includes a first communication part  for performing communication with the second and third components  and , a second communication part  for performing communication with the fourth component , and a third communication part  for performing communication with the fifth component .","In this instance, the first and second communication parts  and  may use different communication protocols from each other. As an example, the first communication part  may use Zigbee and the second communication part  may use Wi-fi. In this embodiment, the kind of communication protocol or method used by the first and second communication parts  and  is not limited. The third communication component  may use Internet communication as an example.","The API  includes a first API , a second API  and a third API . The third API  is an interface between the central manager  and the third communication part , and the first API  is an interface between the first communication part  and the central manager . The second API  is an interface between the second communication part  and the central manager .","The first component  further includes a local manager  and an interpreter . In a case where the information to be transmitted\/received between the API  and the communication unit  is information related to operations of energy consumption components (electric home appliances), the local manager  outputs information corresponding to the respective energy consumption components. The interpreter  interprets information transmitted from the local manager  to the communication unit  or information received in the communication unit . The information outputted from the interpreter  is used to set or get values of information related to the respective energy consumption components.","The local manager  includes a memory (not shown) in which information related to one or more energy consumption components is stored. Alternatively, the local manager  may be connected to a memory in which information related to one or more energy consumption components is stored. The information related to each of the energy consumption components may include operation information of each of the energy consumption components and information for controlling the energy consumption components. The information related to each of the energy consumption components may further include software download information for operating each of the energy consumption components and information for remote controlling\/monitoring.","As an example, in a case where a plurality of energy consumption components include a washing machine, a refrigerator and a cooking appliance, information related to each of the energy consumption components is stored in the memory. The information related to each of the energy consumption components may be changed as components connected to the network system are changed.","If a signal is transmitted from the API  to the local manager , information corresponding to a specific energy consumption component is outputted. In a case where a plurality of energy consumption components exist, information on the plurality of energy consumption components is outputted. The interpreter  interprets the information transmitted from the local manager  into a machine language so as to transmit the information to the energy consumption components. The machine language may be a signal used to set or get the operation information of the energy consumption components.","The information transmission process in the first component  will be described.","As an example, the first component  may receive energy information (e.g., an energy reduction signal: first command) from the forth component  through the second communication part . The received energy information is transmitted to the central manager  through the second API . In the process of information transmission between the second API  and the central manager , only a signal including the information is converted, and the content of the information is not converted.","Since the energy information is information related to the energy consumption reduction of the energy consumption components, the central manager  transmits information (second command) related to operations of the energy consumption components to the API . As an example, the central manager  transmits information necessary for turning off power of the washing machine or refrigerator.","Then, the information is transmitted from the first API  to the local manager .","The local manager  transmits information (third command) for controlling the operation of each of the energy consumption components to the interpreter  based on the information transmitted from the first API . As an example, in a case where the information transmitted from the first API  is information having different kinds of energy consumption components as targets, the local manager  transmits information related to the control of each of the energy consumption components to the interpreter . In this case, since the local manager  receives the second command and outputs the third command, the information inputted to the local manager  is converted and outputted by the local manager .","Subsequently, the interpreter  interprets the information transmitted from the local manager  into a machine language (signal). Then, the converted signal is transmitted to the target energy consumption components (second and third components) through the first communication part . Then, the energy consumption components (second and third components) are finally turned off so as to reduce energy.","Although it has been described above that the first component receives information through the second communication part, the first component may receive information through the third component so that the information related to the energy consumption components is outputted.","Meanwhile, the second and third components  and  may transmit their own operation information to the first component . Since the information transmitted from the second and third components  and  is information related to operations of the energy consumption components, the signal received in the first communication part  is transmitted to the central manager  via the interpreter , the local manager  and the first API . In such an information transmission process, the information related to the second and third components  and  is stored in the local manager . In this embodiment, since the information related to the energy consumption components is stored in the local manager, the local manager may be understood as a virtual energy consumption component (abstraction model).","The central manager  may transmit the received information to the second communication part  and\/or the third communication part .","The operation of the first component will be described. The information received through the communication unit  may be transmitted directly to the API , or may be converted (via the interpreter and the local manager) and then transmitted to the API , based on the kind of information (or the type of signal).","The information transmitted from the central manager  may be transmitted directly to the communication unit , or may be converted and then transmitted to the communication unit .","As another example, the interpreter may be included in the local manager , and the information received through the communication unit  is transmitted to the local manager . However, converted information may be outputted, or information may be outputted as it is without converting the information.","Meanwhile, in a case where the information transmitted to the API  through the second or third communication part  or  is information (raw data or refined data) related to time-based pricing, the central manager  determines the presence of on-peak time. In the case of the on-peak time, the central manager  may transmit the information (first command) for controlling the operations of the energy consumption components to the API . Then, the information is converted through the local manager , and the converted information (second command) is transmitted to the energy consumption components through the first communication part . Alternatively, the central manager  may transmit the information related to the time-based pricing to the first communication part  through the second API  without determining the presence of on-peak time. In this case, the information may be converted or not converted. That is, in a case where the central manager directly receives first information (raw data), it may transmit the first information as it is, or convert the first information into a second information (refined data) and then transmit the second information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0294","num":"0293"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]},"Referring to , the network system of this embodiment may include at least first to fourth components , ,  and .","The first component  may communicate with the second to fourth components ,  and . The fourth component  may communicate with the first to third components ,  and .","Hereinafter, it will be described as an example that the first component  is a central management component (home server), the second and third components  and  are energy consumption components (electric home appliances), and the fourth component  is an energy metering component (smart meter).","The central management component (home server) may be understood as a component necessary for controlling at least a component that constitutes the HAN .","The first component  includes a communication unit  for performing communication with another component, a central manager  for managing the entire operation and\/or information transmission\/reception of the first component , and an application programming interface  (hereinafter, referred to as an \u201cAPI\u201d) that serves as an interface between the communication unit  and the central manager  (specifically, application software).","The communication unit  may include a first communication component  for performing communication with the second to fourth components ,  and , and a second communication component  for performing Internet communication.","The API  includes a first API  and a second API . The second API  is an interface between the central manager  and the second communication part , and the first API  is an interface between the first communication part  and the central manager .","The first component  further includes a local manager  and an interpreter . In a case where the information to be transmitted\/received between the API  and the communication unit  is information related to operations of energy consumption components (electric home appliances), the local manager  outputs information corresponding to the respective energy consumption components. The interpreter  interprets information transmitted from the local manager  to the communication unit  or information received in the communication unit .","In this embodiment, the functions of the interpreter and the local manager are identical to those of the third embodiment, and therefore, their detailed descriptions will be omitted.","The information transmission process in the first component  will be described.","As an example, the first component  may receive energy information (e.g., energy reduction signal) from the fourth component  through the first communication part . Alternatively, the first component  may receive energy information from an external component connected to Internet through the second communication part .","The received energy information is transmitted directly to the first or second API  or  and then transmitted to the central manager . Since the energy information is information related to the energy consumption reduction of the energy consumption components, the central manager  transmits information related to the operations of the energy consumption components to the first API . As an example, the central manager  transmits information necessary for turning off power of a washing machine or refrigerator.","Then, the information is transmitted from the first API  to the local manager .","The local manager  transmits information for controlling the operation of each of the energy consumption components to the interpreter  based on the information transmitted from the first API . As an example, in a case where the information transmitted from the first API is information related to different kinds of energy consumption components, the local manager  transmits information related to the control of each of the energy consumption components to the interpreter .","Subsequently, the interpreter  interprets the information transmitted from the local manager  into a machine language (signal). Then, the interpreted signal is transmitted to the energy consumption components through the first communication part . Then, the energy consumption components are finally turned off so as to reduce energy.","Meanwhile, the second and third components  and  may transmit their own operation information to the first component . Since the information transmitted from the second and third components is information related to the operations of the energy consumption components, the signal received in the first communication part  is transmitted to the central manager  via the interpreter , the local manager  and the first API . In such an information transmission process, the information related to the first and second components is stored in the local manager .","The central manager  may transmit the received information to the first communication part . Then, the information of the second and third components  and  is transmitted to the fourth component .","The operation of the first component will be described. The information received through the communication unit  may be transmitted directly to the API , or may be converted (via the interpreter and the local manager) and then transmitted to the API , based on the kind of information (or the type of signal).","On the contrary, the information transmitted from the central manager  may be transmitted directly to the communication unit , or may be converted and then transmitted to the communication unit .","Meanwhile, in a case where the information transmitted to the API  through the second communication part  is information related to time-based pricing, the central manager  determines the presence of on-peak time. In the case of the on-peak time, the central manager  may transmit the information for controlling the operations of the energy consumption components to the API . Then, the information is transmitted to the energy consumption components through the local manager, the interpreter and the first communication part. In this case, the first component may be understood as an energy management component.","Although it has been described above that two energy consumption components communicate with the first component, the number of energy consumption components that communicate with the first component is not limited.","Although it has been described as an example that the first component is a home server, the first component may be an energy management component. In this case, the fourth component may be a central management component, an energy management component, a smart meter, or the like.","As another example, the first component may be a smart meter. In this case, the fourth component may be a central management component, an energy management component, or the like.","As still another example, the first component may be a terminal component (e.g., a gate way).","As still another example, each of the second and third components may be an energy generation component, an energy storage component or the like, which constitutes the HAN. That is, one or more of the energy generation component, the energy consumption component and the energy storage component may communicate with the first component. In addition to information related to the energy consumption component, information related to the energy generation component (e.g., information related to the operation of the energy generation component) and information related to the energy storage component (e.g., information related to the operation of the energy storage component) may be stored in the memory included in a local network or connected to the local network.","Although it has been described above that the first component performs Internet communication, the Internet communication may not be performed.","Although it has been described in the first embodiment that a single local manager is provided, a plurality of local managers may be provided. As an example, a first local manager may process information on an electric home appliance such as a refrigerator or washing machine, and a second local manager may process information on a display product such as a television or monitor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0322","num":"0321"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"Referring to , a home area network  according to an embodiment may include an energy measurement component  (e.g., a smart meter) capable of measuring power and\/or electricity charge, being supplied into each home, in real-time from the utility network , and an energy management component connected to the energy measurement component  and an electrical appliance to control operations of the energy measurement component  and the electrical appliance.","The energy management component  is connected to electrical appliance, i.e., the energy consumption component  such as a refrigerator , a washing machine , an air conditioner , a dryer , or a cooking appliance through an in-house network for two-way communication. In-house communication may be performed by wireless communication such as Zigbee, WiFi or the like or by wire communication such as power line communication (PLC). Furthermore, the electrical appliances may be connected to each other so as to communicate with each other.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0325","num":"0324"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},"Referring to , an electrical appliance  provided as \u201cthe energy consumption component\u201d according to an embodiment includes a communication unit .","The communication unit  may communicate with at least one of the energy measurement component  for recognizing energy information or additional information except the energy information and the energy management unit  for managing (controlling) an operation of the energy consumption component  according to the energy information or the additional information. The energy measurement component  and the energy management component  may be connected to communicate with each other. Also, the communication unit  may be provided within the electrical appliance  or separably coupled to the electrical appliance .","The electrical appliance  may include an input unit  for inputting a predetermined command, a display unit  for displaying operation information of the electrical appliance  or information recognized from the communication unit , a memory  for storing the received information, i.e., the energy information (for example, energy charge information) or the additional information (for example, environment information), a clock  for measuring the current time, and a control unit  for controlling the input unit , the display unit , the clock , and the memory .","In detail, the input unit  includes a power input part  for inputting power turn on\/off of the electrical appliance , a mode selection part  for selecting a mode (a power saving mode or a normal mode) related to whether the electrical appliance  is operated on the basis of the received information, an option selection part  for selecting an option related to the operation of the electrical appliance , and a start input part  for inputting an operation command of the electrical appliance .","Here, the term \u201cmode\u201d may be understood as the concept which includes a specific component constituting the electrical appliance  and a specific operation course or cycle with respect to a function to be performed by the electrical appliance . The power saving mode may be a mode in which the electrical appliance  is controlled on the basis of the received information. The normal mode may be a mode in which the electrical appliance  is controlled without being based on the received information. When the power saving mode is selected, the electrical appliance  may be controlled so that energy usage amount or charge when the electrical appliance  is controlled on the basis of the received information, for example, an energy charge is less than that when the electrical appliance  is controlled without being based on the energy information.","When the electrical appliance  is operated in the power saving mode, a time zone in which the energy charge is inexpensive from the current time to a predetermined time, i.e., an optimum operation time may be recommended on the basis of the received energy charge information.","The electrical appliance  may be previously set (default set) to one of the normal mode and the power saving mode. After the power is turned on, one of the above-described modes may be selected. Also, the set mode once may be converted into the other mode.","The option selection part  may select the predetermined time. For example, when a user selects six hours as the predetermined time, the electrical appliance  may recommend a time zone in which the energy charge is the lowest in the time period from the current time to six hours later. The term \u201cpredetermined time\u201d may be understood as a time limit in which the time zone in which the energy charge is inexpensive is not recommended, but the user waits for operating the electrical appliance . That is, that the user selects the six hours as the predetermined time may be understood as the user wait for maximally six hours later to save the energy charge. The term \u201cpredetermined time\u201d may be understood as a limited time point at which the operation of the electrical appliance  starts and a limited time point at which the operation of the electrical appliance  is finished. Whether the predetermined time is the start limited time point or the finished limited time point may be selected through the option selection part .","The predetermined time may be manually selected or changed by the user. Also, the predetermined time may be set to a predetermined value or automatically changed in the electrical appliance . For example, the predetermined time may be set to about ten hours in a time period (for example, from 23:00 to 06:00 with respect to the current time) in which the operation of the electrical appliance  is limited due to noise and the like. Also, the predetermined time may be automatically set to about six hours in the rest time period.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0335","num":"0334"},"figref":"FIGS. 14 and 15"},"Referring to , the current information and recommended information are displayed on a display unit . Then, an operation of an electrical appliance  is reserved according to the recommended information.","When a user selects a power saving mode as an operation mode of the electrical appliance  and selects about six hours as a predetermined time, the display unit  may be displayed as shown in .","The display unit  includes a current information display part  for displaying the current time and energy charge information and a recommended information display part  for displaying optimum time information for reducing the energy charge at a time point before the predetermined time elapses and the energy charge information.","Also, as shown in , the display unit  may display information related to a course such as a current set course (\u201cstandard course\u201d in the drawings), a kind of washing cycle (\u201cthe present washing\u201d in the drawings), the repeated number of cycles (\u201cthree times\u201d in the drawings), and a temperature of washing water (\u201c40\u00b0 C.\u201d in the drawings).","These information may be differently set by the user. For this, the input unit  may include at least one set input part for setting or changing the information.","As shown in , the current time is 9:38 a.m., and the current energy charge is 450 \/KW. Also, in a time from the current time to 15:38 that is within six hours from the current time, a time recommended as an optimum operation for reducing the energy charge is 10:07 a.m.","In this state, when the user inputs the start input part , as shown , the term \u201con reservation\u201d is displayed on the display unit . Also, the electrical appliance  is reserved at 10:07 p.m. as an operation start time. When the corresponding time arrives, the operation of the electrical appliance  starts. However, when a recommended time is the current time, term \u201cimmediate operation\u201d or \u201coperation start\u201d may be displayed.","As described above, a time displayed as the recommended time may be set and displayed as a finish time, but is not a start time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0344","num":"0343"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},"Referring to , when the user inputs a power source in the electrical appliance  (S), it may be determined whether the power saving mode is selected through the mode selection part  (S). When the power saving mode is selected, the current information and the recommended information may be displayed on the display unit . Here, the recommended information may include a time in which the energy charge is inexpensive in a time period from the current time to a set predetermined time and the charge information.","The user may change information related to a course to be operated by the electrical appliance  using the set input part, i.e., set or change detailed set related to the course or operation (S). When the course or detailed set is charged, the changed content is displayed on the display unit (S). Also, when the user inputs the start input part , the immediate operation or delayed operation is displayed on the display unit .","In operation S, when the operation mode is set as the normal mode, the user manually inputs an operation course and time of the electrical appliance (S). The information inputted by the user, i.e., the course and operation time may be set as the operation information in the electrical appliance (S). As a result, the electrical appliance may be operated according to the set operation mode (the power saving mode or the normal mode) for the inputted or reserved time (S).","According to the above-described control method, the charge of the electrical appliance may be reduced in the power saving mode on the basis of the received energy charge information, as well as convenience of use may be improved.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0349","num":"0348"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 18"]},"Referring to , a display unit  according to a second embodiment includes a mode display part  for informing a state of the current operation mode of an electrical appliance , a current time display part  for informing the current time, an operation course display part  for displaying an operable course, an optimum time display part  for displaying a recommended optimum operation time, a prior process conversion part  for converting a displayed screen into a prior screen, and a selection part  for inputting a selection command.","Although not shown in the first embodiment, the mode display part , the prior process selection part , and the next screen selection part  may be equally included in the display unit  according to the first embodiment.","When the user selects the power saving mode of the operation modes of the electrical appliance , the display unit  may be displayed as shown in .","At least one functionally operable course of the electrical appliance  may be displayed on the operation course display part . Here, only one operation course may be displayed according to a set state of the electrical appliance . Alternatively, a plurality of selectable courses may be displayed.","For example, as shown in , a first course may be a course having an operation time of about one hour and quarter, and second, third, and fourth courses may have operation times of about 2 hours, 1 hours, 3 hours 5 minutes, respectively.","In the state of the power saving mode, when the energy change information is received, the electrical appliance  recognizes a time zone in which the charge is inexpensive to recommend an optimum operation time zone for each course.","As described in the first embodiment, the display unit  may recommend an optimum time period of time periods within a range of the current time, i.e., 15:00 to six hours later (optical change is allowable).","For example, if the charge is inexpensive between time periods of from 17:00 to 18:00 (low price time period), the electrical appliance  may recommend an operation period including the low price time period according to the whole operation time of each course.","Also, when the whole operation time of the course exceeds the low price time period, a time period in which the energy charge can be maximally saved before and after the low price time period may be recommended. The user may confirm the recommended optimum operation time for each course to select a desired operation course.","In a state where the display unit is displayed as shown in , when one operation course may be selected, and the selection part  is inputted, the electrical appliance  may be operated according to the selected operation course and the optimum operation time. A method of selecting the operation course may include a touch screen input method through a screen of the display unit  or an input method through a separate input part.","A method of controlling the electrical appliance according to the current embodiment will be described with reference to .","A power is applied into the electrical appliance  (S), and whether the power saving mode is selected is confirmed (S). When the power saving mode is selected, charge information within a set time from the current time is recognized. Here, the set time may be set to 6 hours as shown in  or set to a different time through the option selection part  (S and S). Also, an optimum operation time corresponding to an operable or selectable operation course is displayed on the display unit  (S).","The user may select a specific operation course (S). An optimum operation of the electrical appliance  may be reserved according to the selected operation course or the optimum operation time. Here, the \u201creservation\u201d may be performed when the optimum operation time is later than the current start time. If the optimum operation time is included in the current time, the reservation\u201d may be an \u201cimmediate operation\u201d (S).","When the power saving mode is not selected in the operation S, i.e., when the normal mode is selected, the user may manually input an operation course and time of the electrical appliance. Thus, the electrical appliance may set the operation information to the course and time inputted by the user (S and S). When the operation mode is the power saving mode, the electrical appliance  may be operated at a reserved time, and when the operation mode is the normal mode, the electrical appliance  may be operated at the inputted time (S).","According to the above-described control method, although the user does not input a separate command after the electrical appliance is turned on, the optimum operation information may be recommended according to the received energy change. Thus, the charge of the electrical appliance may be reduced, as well as convenience of use may be improved.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0365","num":"0364"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 20","FIG. 19"]},"Although a washing machine is illustrated in  as an example, the present disclosure is not limited to a kind of electrical appliance.","Referring to , an electrical appliance  (a washing machine) according to an embodiment includes a main body  including a drum in which laundry is received therein, a door  for opening\/closing the drum, a control panel  for inputting an operation condition of the electrical appliance , and a detergent box  for storing detergent. Although not shown, the electrical appliance  includes a communication unit for transmitting\/receiving information related to at least energy.","In detail, the control panel  include a power button  for turning the electrical appliance  on\/off, an operation button  for starting or temporally stopping an operation of the electrical appliance  or re-operating the electrical appliance , a course or mode selection part  (hereinafter, referred to as a \u201ccourse selection part\u201d) for selecting an operation course or mode, a function selection part  including a plurality of buttons to select a function desired by a user, a display part  for displaying an selected item, the progress of a corresponding course (mode), and a remaining time when the function selection part  is manipulated, and a control part (not shown) for controlling the above-described parts and recognizing information related to an electricity charge.","The function selection part  may include at least smart button  (a power saving reservation button) and a limit button . A power saving mode for operating the electrical appliance  in a low price period may be selected by using the smart reservation button . A time for limiting the operation of the electrical appliance  may be inputted by using the limit button . In the current embodiment, the function selection part  and the course selection part  may be commonly called an \u201cinput part\u201d.","Hereinafter, an operation of the electrical appliance when the smart reservation button is selected in a state where a time limit is set will be described.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0371","num":"0370"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 22"]},"Referring to , a user selects a limit button  to input or change a time for limiting an operation of the electrical appliance (S). Here, the time limit may be preset or not be preset when the electrical appliance is produced. When the time limit is preset when the electrical appliance is produced, the time limit may be, for example, set between 00:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.","The time limit may be set to reduce noise which may occur during the night time as the electrical appliance is operated. That is, when the electrical appliance is used in common habitation areas such as apartments, multi-household houses, or multiplex houses, the time limit may be set to avoid damage due to noise for other households.","Also, the time limit may be set by using a selection button and\/or a movement button (S). In the current embodiment, a method of setting the time limit is not limited. A start time and a finish time may be set as the time limit, and a plurality of time periods may be set. In general, although the time limit may be set in night time, the time limit may be set in day time according to a life pattern of residents.","Then, it is determined whether a time except the set time limit is included in a high price time period (S). If the time except the set time limit is not included in the high price time period, i.e., even though a portion of the set time limit is included in a low price time period, the input time may be stored in a memory (not shown) (S).","On the other hand, if all of the time except the inputted time limit is included in the high price time period, a re-input request message occurs (S). For example, the re-input request message may be displayed on the display unit.","Referring to , a user inputs a specific course for operating the washing machine (S). Then, the smart reservation button  is selected (S). Thus, a power saving mode is set. When the power saving mode is set, an operation of the electrical appliance may start in a time zone in which an electricity charge is low in the time except the set time limit or in the low price time period. Here, after the power saving mode is selected, the electrical appliance may be operated within the set finish time. That is, for example, the electrical appliance may be operated in a time zone in which the electricity charge is low within 12 hours or the low price time period.","If the electrical appliance receives scheduled information that is TOU information, the control part may recognize the high price time period and the low price time period by using the TOU information. On the other hand, the electrical appliance may receive the high price time period and the low price time period from external other components.","On the other hand, when the electrical appliance receives the TOU information that is real-time information, the received information may be stored to recognize the high price time period or the low price time period by using electricity charge information at last day or week (substantially, estimation of the high price time period and the low price time period). On the other hand, the electrical appliance may receive the high price time period and the low price time period from external other components.","When the course and the operation button are selected in a state where the time limit is set, but the power saving mode is not selected, the current time may be included in the time limit, and a message for informing the set of the time limit may occur. For example, an alarm message for informing the set of the time limit may be displayed on the display unit.","According to the current embodiment, since the electricity charge is minimized under the power saving mode, or the electrical appliance is operated in the low price time period, the electricity charge may be reduced.","Also, since the time limit is set to operate the electrical appliance at a time except the limited time, the damage related to the noise with respect to everyone as the electrical appliance is operated at the limited time may be reduced as the electrical appliance is operated.","When electricity in the low price time period is used for a consumer, concentration of power consumption may be solved. Thus, the power supplier may effectively manage the power consumption and supply.","Since an electricity charge is priced high in a time period in which power demand is high, when use of electricity is increased in a time period in which the electricity charge is low, the concentration of the power demand may be solved.","Although various courses and functions are selected by the function selection part and the course selection part, the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For example, the display part may include a touch screen for selecting various functions through a touch method. In this case, the touch screen may perform the function of the input part.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0386","num":"0385"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 24"]},"Referring to , a user selects a limit button  to input or change a time at which the electrical appliance is operated (S). In the current embodiment, since a time is inputted or changed so that the electrical appliance is operated in a specific time period, the set operable time may be called a limited time.","In , the time limit may be an operation time limit. Also, in the current embodiment, the time limit may be an operable time. Here, the time limit may be preset or not be preset when the electrical appliance is produced. When the time limit is preset when the electrical appliance is produced, the time limit may be, for example, set between 06:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. (or 00:00 a.m.).","Also, the time limit may be set by using a selection button and\/or a movement button (S). Then, it is determined whether the set time limit is included in the high price time period (S). If the set time limit is not included in the high price time period, i.e., even though a portion of the set time limit is included in a low price time period, the input time may be stored in the memory (S). On the other hand, if all of the inputted time limit is included in the high price time period, the re-input request message occurs (S). For example, the re-input request message may be displayed on the display unit.","Referring to , the user inputs a specific course for operating the electrical appliance (S). Then, the smart reservation button is selected (S). Thus, a power saving mode is set. When the power saving mode is set, the operation of the electrical appliance may start in a time zone in which the electricity charge is the lowest in the set time limit (the operable time) or in the low price time period.","In the case where the course and the operation button are selected in a state where the operable time is set, but the power saving mode is not selected, when the current time is included in the operable time, the message for informing the set of the time limit may occur. For example, an alarm message for informing the set of the time limit may be displayed on the display unit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0392","num":"0391"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 25"]},"Referring to , one screen of screens displayed on a display unit  according to the current embodiment may be an operation time set screen. The operation time set screen includes a first screen  and a second screen .","For example, a screen of  may be displayed when a start button is selected after a specific course is selected. Alternatively, when a time selection button (not shown) is selected before or after a course is selected, a screen of  may be displayed. Alternatively, after a component is turned on, a screen of  may be displayed. In the current embodiment, the screen of  is not limited to a time. Hereinafter, the operation time set screen after the course is selected will be described as an example.","At least one of date information, time information, and power saving function on\/off information () may be displayed on the first screen . The power saving function on\/off information may be different from each other when the electrical appliance is turned on or off. For example, the power saving function on\/off information may be different from each other when a color, brightness, and chroma of the displayed power saving function information are turned on or off.","A power information confirmation screen  may be displayed on the second screen . Also, at least one selection parts , , and  for setting an operation time may be displayed on the second screen .","In detail, at least one of an electricity charge information screen , time information  related to the operation, and power information  related to the operation may be displayed on the power information confirmation screen . For example, in , all of the electricity charge information screen , the time information  related to the operation, and the power information  related to the operation may be displayed on the power information confirmation screen .","The time information  related to the operation may include at least one of course request time information, operation start time information, and operation finish time information. The power information  related to the operation may include at least one of electricity charge information and electricity usage amount when the corresponding course is performed. The course request time may be previously determined for each course.","The electricity charge information screen  may include graph information (e.g., a line graph) related to electricity charge and course performance time information . The graph information related to the electricity charge may be charge graph information for each time. In the graph information, a horizontal axis may represent a time, and a vertical axis may represent a charge. Also, an initial time (a reference time) of the horizontal axis may represent the current time, and a final time may represent a time after a predetermined time (e.g., 24 hours) from the current time. That is, the graph information may have a time range of about 24 hours. Also, the graph information may include electricity charge information during about 24 hours. In the current embodiment, the time range may be automatically or manually changed or set, and also the time range is not limited. The initial time may be disposed (a position corresponding to 3:30 because the initial time is 3:30 p.m.) at a left side on a screen on which the graph information is displayed, and the final time may be disposed at a right side. Alternatively, the initial time may be disposed at the right side on the electricity charge information screen , and the final time may be disposed at the left side.","The course performance time information  may have a bar shape and be displayed on a specific position of a graph of the electricity charge information screen . Thus, user may easily confirm the position of the course performance time on the charge graph.","The user may preset an operation time (an operation start time or an operation finish time) before the operation time set screen. When the operation time is not preset before the operation time set screen is displayed, the course performance time information  may be disposed on the graph corresponding to the current time. That is, a washing start time of the course performance time information  is disposed to correspond to the current time (for example, 3:30 p.m.), and the washing finish time is disposed to corresponding to a time (for example, 04:30 p.m.) at which the washing is finished. Here, a left\/right length of the course performance time information  displayed on the electricity charge information screen  may correspond to the course performance time. When the operation time is preset before the operation time set screen is displayed, for example, when the operation start time is set after the current time, the course performance time information is disposed to correspond to the set time. For example, when the current time is 03:30 p.m., the user sets the operation start time to 04:40 p.m., and a required time of the set course is about 1 hour, the start time of the course performance time information  may be disposed to correspond to 04:30 p.m., and the finish time may be disposed to correspond to 05:50 p.m.","The at least one selection parts , , and  may include a current time selection part  and at least one recommendation selection part for setting an operation time to a recommended time. The at least one recommendation selection part may include a recommended time selection part  (hereinafter, referred to as a first recommendation selection part) and a minimum charge time selection part  (hereinafter, referred to as a second recommendation selection part).","In the screen of , to operation the washing machine at the current time, the user may select the start button or the current time selection part . On the other hand, when the recommended time is recognized, the recommended time selection part  or the minimum charge time selection part  may be selected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0404","num":"0403"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25"]},"Referring to , when the recommended time selection part  is selected on the screen of , the course performance time information  may be moved to the time zone in which the electricity charge is the lowest within a first time range from the current time to a first reference time later. Here, the first reference time may be, for example, about 4 hours. The first reference time may be changed.","For example, when the current time is 03:30 p.m., when the recommended time selection part  is selected, the course performance time information  may be moved to the time zone in which the electricity charge is the lowest within a range from the current time to 07:30 p.m. Here, the time information  related to the operation and the power information  related to the operation may be varied corresponding to a position (a delay time) of the course performance time information .","Referring to , since an electricity charge at 06:00 p.m. is less than that of the current time, the start time of the course performance time information  may be disposed to correspond to 06:00 p.m. Here, at least one of the start time and the finish time of the course performance time information  may be disposed in a time zone in which the electricity charge is the lowest. In , since an electricity charge at 06:00 p.m. is low, the start time of the course performance time information  may be disposed to correspond to 06:00 p.m. If the electricity charge is the lowest at the current time, the course performance time information  may not be moved.","In a state where a screen of  is displayed, the user may select the current time selection part  or the minimum charge time selection part . When the current time selection part  is selected, the screen is converted into the screen of . Also, when the minimum charge time selection part  is selected, the screen is converted into a screen of  that will be described later. Also, in the state where the screen of  is displayed, the user may select the start button.","For another example, when the screen of  may be displayed, and then a predetermined time elapses, a confirmation screen (not shown) for confirming whether a recommended time is set may be displayed. A first selection part (e.g., a \u201cYes\u201d selection part) for inputting a start command and a second selection part (e.g., a \u201cNo\u201d selection part) for no input of the start command may be displayed on the recognition screen. When the user selects the first selection part on the confirmation screen, the recommended time may be set as an operation time. On the other hand, when the second selection part is selected, the confirmation screen may be disappeared and converted into the screen of  or only the confirmation screen may be disappeared.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0410","num":"0409"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 26"]},"Referring to , when the minimum charge time selection part  is selected on the screen of , the course performance time information  may be moved to the time zone in which the electricity charge is the lowest within a range from the current time to a second reference time later. Here, the first reference time may be, for example, about 24 hours. The second reference time may be changed.","For example, when the current time is 03:30 p.m., when the minimum charge time selection part  is selected, the course performance time information  may be moved to the time zone in which the electricity charge is the lowest within a range from the current time to 03:30 p.m.","Referring to , since the electricity charge is the lowest at 07:00 a.m., the next day within the second time range, the start time of the course performance time information  may be disposed to correspond to 07:00 a.m., next day. Here, at least one of the start time and the finish time of the course performance time information  may be disposed in a time zone in which the electricity charge is the lowest within the second time range. In , since an electricity charge at 07:00 a.m., the next day is low, the start time of the course performance time information  may be disposed to correspond to 07:00 a.m., the next day. If the electricity charge is the lowest at the current time, the course performance time information  may not be moved.","In the state where the screen of  is displayed, the user may select the current time selection part  or the recommended time selection part . When the current time selection part  is selected, the screen is converted into the screen of . Also, when the recommended time selection part  is selected, the screen is converted into the screen of . Also, in the state where the screen of  is displayed, the user may select the start button.","For another example, when the screen of  may be displayed, and then a predetermined time elapses, a confirmation screen (not shown) for confirming whether a recommended time is set may be displayed. A first selection part (e.g., a \u201cYes\u201d selection part) for inputting a start command and a second selection part (e.g., a \u201cNo\u201d selection part) for no selection of the recommended information may be displayed on the recognition screen. When the user selects the first selection part on the confirmation screen, the recommended time may be set as an operation time. On the other hand, when the second selection part is selected, the confirmation screen may be disappeared and converted into the screen of  or only the confirmation screen may be disappeared.","In summary, in a state where the recommended information is displayed, the user may select whether a component is operated on the basis of the recommended information. For example, when the other selection part is selected in the state where the recommended information is displayed, the display of the recommended information displayed at the present may be released, and information corresponding to a selected selection part may be displayed. For another example, when the second selection part for no selection of the recommended information is selected after the recommended information screen is displayed and then a predetermined time elapses, the display of the recommended information displayed at the present may be released, and the other information (the other recommended information or the current time information) may be displayed.","Although the recommended information is the time information in the current embodiment, the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For example, the recommended information may be course information to be performed by the component, an estimated energy usage amount of the component, or estimated energy charge of the component.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0418","num":"0417"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 25"]},"Referring to , when the start command is inputted on the screen of  (for example, when the start button is selected or the current time selection part is selected), in a case where the electricity charge at the current time is greater than a mean electricity charge from the current time to a predetermined time, a power saving course selection screen  may be displayed on the second screen . Here, the predetermined time may be, for example, about 24 hours. The present disclosure is not limited to the predetermined time. Also, the predetermined time may be manually or automatically changed or set.","The power saving course selection screen  may display at least one of information related to a changed washing finish time and a changed time content, an estimated power usage amount, an electricity amount reduced than that when the washing machine is operated according to the course and time selected by the user, estimated charge information, and an electricity charge reduced than that when the washing machine is operated according to the course and time selected by the user.","In the current embodiment, the power saving course may be a course in which the selected course is changed in operation condition. For example, when the user selection a standard course and inputs an operation condition using the operation condition input part, the power saving course may represent a course in which the selected operation condition is changed. For another example, the power saving course may be one of a plurality of course except the selected course.","The user may select whether the power saving course is performed (or the power saving function is operated) on the power saving course selection screen. That is, when a first selection part  for selecting the power saving course and a screen for non selection of the power saving course are displayed on the power saving course selection screen . Here, when the power saving course is not selected, a screen of  may be converted into a prior screen, or a component may be operated on the basis of the information set by the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0423","num":"0422"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},"Referring to , a component (e.g., a washing machine) determines whether a recommended information display condition is satisfied (S). When the recommended information display condition is satisfied, recommended information (hereinafter, referred to as a first recommended information) related to an operation of the component may be displayed on a display unit  (S). The recommended information may be information determined on the basis of at least energy information. The case in which the recommended information display condition is satisfied may be at least one of a case in which the component is turned on (a power button is selected), a case in which a communication unit is communicable, a case in which a specific condition is inputted, a case in which recommended information display command is inputted (a case in which a first or second recommendation selection part is selected in ), and a case in which a power saving function is set. For example, although a separate additional commend is not inputted in a state where a power button is selected to turn the component on, the recommended information may be automatically displayed. For another example, when the power button is selected, and the communication unit is communicable, the recommended information may be automatically displayed.","When the recommended information is not satisfied, non-recommended information may be displayed. For example, the screen of  may be displayed. The recommended information may be at least one of information of a course to be performed by the component, operation time information (at least one of an operation start time and an operation finish time) of the component, an estimated energy usage amount of the component, and an estimated energy charge of the component. At least one of the course information and the operation time information may be called an operation method information of the component.","For example, when the component is turned on, or the component is communicable, an optimum time may be recommended within a range from the current time to a specific time. The optimum time may be a time point at which the energy charge is the lowest within the range from the current time to the specific time. Here, the specific time may be changed by the user.","The specific condition may be at least one of a course to be performed by the component, an operation time of the component, and power information. The power information may be electricity charge information and electricity usage amount information. The information recommended when the specific condition is inputted may be displayed as the same information as the inputted condition or information different from the inputted condition.","For example, when the specific course is inputted, a course in which the energy charge or energy usage amount is reduced when compared to that of the case in which the inputted specific course is performed. Here, the recommended course may be a course changed from the inputted course. For example, when a strong course is inputted in the washing machine, a standard course for saving a power may be recommended.","For another example, when time information related to the operation of the component is inputted, the operation time of the component in which at least power saving is possible may be recommended on the basis of the energy information and the inputted time information. Here, the recommended operation time may be a time changed from the inputted time. Also, the recommended operation time may include an operation start time or an operation finish time.","For another example, when the energy charge or energy usage amount of the component of the component is inputted, the operation method (including a time or course) of the component may be recommended to satisfy a value less than that of the energy charge or energy usage amount which is inputted on the basis of the energy information and the inputted information.","When the recommended information is course information, a kind of courses to be recommended may be preset or set by the user. When the recommended information is operation start information, the operation time information may be selected within a reference time range. The reference time range may represent a range from the current time to a specific time, and the specific time may be preset or set by the user.","After the recommended information is displayed, it is determined whether a recommended information set command is inputted (S). The input of the recommended information set command may represent an input of an operation command for operating the component on the basis of the recommended information. For example, after the recommended information is displayed, a confirmation screen for confirming whether the component is operated on the basis of the recommended information may be displayed. The confirmation screen may display a first selection part for inputting a start command and a second selection part for no input of the start command. When the first selection part is selected, it may be determined that the recommended information set command is inputted. For another example, after the recommended information is displayed, when a separate start button is selected, it may be determined that the recommended information set command is inputted.","In the result determined in the operation S, when the recommended information set command is not inputted, it is determined whether the other recommended information display command is inputted (S). If the other recommended information display command is inputted, the other recommended information (a second recommended information) related to the operation of the component may be displayed (S). The case in which the other recommended information display command is inputted may be, for example, a case in which the minimum charge time selection part is selected on the screen of  or a case in which the recommended time selection part is selected on the screen of .","Here, only the second recommended information may be displayed on the display unit , and the first recommended information and the second recommended information may be displayed together.","The first and second recommended information may be the same kind or different kinds. When the first and second recommended information are the same kind, the first and second recommended information may be determined by references different from each other. That is, a first recommended range of the first recommended information and a second recommended range of the second recommended information may be partially or wholly different from each other.","For example, when each of the recommended information is operation time information, the first recommended information may be selected within the first time range, and the second recommended information may be selected within a second time range. Since the first and second time ranges are the same as those of , their detailed descriptions will be omitted.","According to the present invention, the recommended range (a time range, an energy charge range, an energy usage amount range, a course range, and the like) for recommending specific information may be limited. The recommended range may be limited to a preset content or manually limited by the user. For example, in a case of the time range, at least one of the start time and the finish time may be limited. In a case of the energy charge and the energy usage amount ranges, at least one of maximum and minimum values may be limited. In a case of the course range, a kind of course may be limited.","In a case where the recommended information is the course information and the energy usage amount or the energy charge information, this may be equally applied. For example, in a case where the recommended information is the course information, a kind of course included in the first recommended information and a kind of course included in the second recommended information may be different from each other. For example, the course included in the second recommended information may have a washing force less than that included the first recommended information and be relatively inexpensive in energy charge.","After the other recommended information is displayed, it is determined whether the recommended information set command is inputted (S). Here, a reference or method for determining whether the recommended information set command is inputted may be the same as that in the operation S.","In the results determined in the operations S and S, when the recommended information set command is inputted, the component is operated to satisfy the recommended information (S). For example, when the start time is recommended, the component is operated at the recommended time. Alternatively, when the course is recommended, the component performs the recommended course. Alternatively, when the energy charge or energy usage amount is recommended, the component may be operated to satisfy the recommended energy charge or energy usage amount. However, since the component may be affected by external effects during the operation thereof, actual energy charge and energy usage amount of the component may be equal to or different from the recommended energy charge and the energy usage amount.","In the current embodiment, a mode for operating the component to satisfy the first recommended information may be called a first power saving mode, and a mode for operating the component to satisfy the second recommended information may be called a second power saving mode. Also, a mode for operating the component to satisfy information set by the user may be called a normal mode. The plurality of power saving modes may be performed in a state where a power saving function is selected. Alternatively, in a state where the normal function is performed, the plurality of power saving modes may be performed by user's set.","In the contents described above, it may be understood that the display unit displays the information related to the normal mode and the information related to the plurality of power saving modes. Here, the information related to the normal mode may be called non-recommended information.","Although the first and second recommended information are displayed in the current embodiment, a third recommended information may be further displayed. That is, in the present disclosure, a plurality of recommended information which may be selected in recommended ranges different from each other may be displayed.","According to the embodiments, the component may receive the energy information by communicating with the other component of the network system. Also, the component may receive the energy information to display the recommended information for reducing the energy consumption thereon. When the component is operated according to the displayed recommended information, the energy consumption may be reduced.","Also, since the recommended information is displayed on the component, the component may be operated in the time zone in which the energy consumption is reduced. Thus, the charge may be reduced on the aspect of the user.","Also, since the power saving function and the normal function may be converted into each other, the user's taste may be satisfied.","According to the proposed embodiments, the energy source may be effectively managed.","Although embodiments have been described with reference to a number of illustrative embodiments thereof, it should be understood that numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art that will fall within the spirit and scope of the principles of this disclosure. More particularly, various variations and modifications are possible in the component parts and\/or arrangements of the subject combination arrangement within the scope of the disclosure, the drawings and the appended claims. In addition to variations and modifications in the component parts and\/or arrangements, alternative uses will also be apparent to those skilled in the art."],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 14 and 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 25"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 29"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
