---
title: First emergency response device
abstract: A personal emergency device is provided to individuals to allow the individuals to request emergency assistances. The device communicates with a base receiver to indicate the individual has requested assistances. The base receiver then communicates with an emergency system such as e-911 emergency services or a remote care system. The base receiver or the remote care system may forward information to the emergency services to provide first responders with additional information regarding the individual. The information may include personal information such as age and name, and the information may include medical information such as a recent blood pressure, weight, and blood glucose level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08766789&OS=08766789&RS=08766789
owner: Cardiocom, LLC
number: 08766789
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110930
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Systems for Providing Emergency Response","Methods for Providing Emergency Response","Emergency Response for Congestive Heart Failure","Remote Care System Operation","Computer Systems for Emergency Response","The Base Receiver as a Medical Monitoring Station"],"p":["The following commonly-assigned patent applications have at least some subject matter in common with the current application:","Ser. No. 29\/403,118 entitled \u201cWireless Remote\u201d, filed Sep. 30, 2011.","The instant disclosure relates to emergency devices. More specifically, the instant disclosure relates to a device for invoking an emergency response.","When an individual encounters an emergency, the individual dials an emergency service such as 911, and the emergency service arranges for assistance to be provided to the individual. However, conditions may arise under which the individual is unable to reach a phone to dial 911. For example, when an individual suffers from a medical condition such as a heart attack, the individual may be unable to reach a telephone. In another example, when an individual falls and breaks a bone, the individual may be unable to reach a telephone. These situations are more likely to occur when individuals are alone, because no one else is available to assist the individual.","Additionally, even when the individual is able to reach a telephone to dial 911 emergency services, the individual may be unable to communicate with the 911 operator. For example, if the individual suffers a heart attack, as described above, the individual may be unable to speak. The 911 operator may have access to a limited amount of information from which to assess the individual and decide on an appropriate response by the emergency services.","According to one embodiment, a method includes receiving an emergency notification from a personal emergency device. The method also includes contacting an emergency system after receiving the emergency notification. The method further includes transmitting medical information about a user associated with the remote device to the emergency system.","In further embodiments, contacting the emergency system includes contacting a remote care system. In another embodiment, transmitting information may include transmitting personal information and\/or medical information regarding the user, in which the medical information may be obtained from a personal medical device. In yet another embodiment, contacting the emergency system may include contacting an emergency service. In a further embodiment, the emergency notification may be transmitted with a wireless signal such as a Bluetooth device.","According to another embodiment, a method includes receiving an emergency notification from a remote device. The method also includes evaluating medical information corresponding to a user of the remote device. The method further includes determining whether the user requires the assistance of an emergency service. The method also includes contacting an emergency service when the user is determined to require assistance. The method further includes transmitting medical information regarding the user to the emergency service.","In further embodiments, the method may also include receiving medical information corresponding to the user from personal medical devices before the step of evaluating the medical information, in which the medical information includes at least one of personal information, medical history, blood pressure, weight, and blood glucose levels. The medical information may be stored in a database server. In another embodiment, the step of determining whether the user requires assistance may include providing the medical information to a nurse and receiving feedback from the nurse regarding the user. In yet another embodiment, the method may include notifying a primary caregiver for the user of the emergency notification after contacting emergency services.","According to yet another embodiment, a system includes a personal emergency device having a wireless transmitter and an emergency notification button. The system also includes a base receiver having a wireless receiver coupled to the wireless transmitter and a first communications link to an emergency system. The base receiver also includes a processor configured to receive an indication from the remote that the emergency notification button was activated. The processor is also configured to contact an emergency system after receiving the indication. The processor is further configured to transmit medical information about a user associated with the remote to the emergency system.","In further embodiments, the base receiver may also include a second communications link to a personal medical device, in which the processor is further configured to receive medical information from the personal medical device and to transmit the medical information to the emergency system. In another embodiment, the wireless transmitter comprises a Bluetooth transmitter and the wireless receiver comprises a Bluetooth receiver. IN yet another embodiment, the emergency system may be an emergency service or a remote care system. A remote care system may include a database server and a processor coupled to the database server, in which the processor is configured to receive the medical information from the base receiver, to store the medical information in the database server, and to determine from cumulative medical information in the database server whether the user requires the attention of an emergency service.","The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention, both as to its organization and method of operation, together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying configured. It is to be expressly understood, however, that each of the configured is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention.","In general, emergency assistance may be requested by a user through a personal emergency device. When the user requires emergency assistance, such as when the user suffers a heart attack or falls down and is unable to get up, the user presses the button on the personal emergency device. The personal emergency device transmits a signal to a base station. The base station sends a signal to request assistance for the user from an emergency system. Medical information and\/or personal information may be transmitted to the emergency system along with the request for assistance to provide first responders with pertinent information before reaching the user. The additional information can ensure the first responders are adequately prepared to handle the emergency allow the first responders to provide higher quality assistance to the user, or to provide other assistance, such as have the hospital ready for the particular patient.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","102","102","102","102","102","102","108","102","102","102","102","102","102","102"],"i":["a ","b ","b ","b ","a ","b "]},"The device  includes a wireless transmitter for transmitting wireless signals  to a base receiver . The wireless transmitter may be, for example, one or more of a Bluetooth transmitter, a ZigBee transmitter, an IEEE 802.11 WiFi transmitter, a radio frequency (RF) transmitter, an infrared (IR) transmitter, or other suitable transmitter. In one example embodiment, the device  can include a microprocessor for receiving input from the user through the button , providing feedback to the user through the indicator , and operating the wireless transmitter to transmit the wireless signals . The device  can also include a receiver for receiving feedback from the base receiver . The device  can also include a lock switch (not shown) for preventing accidental activation of the button ","In certain embodiments, the device  can have an unobstructed transmission range of up to or exceeding 250 feet, can be water-resistant to allow use in a shower, bathtub, or garden, can have a battery life of one or more years, can be constructed from plastic and\/or rubber materials, can weigh less than one ounce, and can be shock-resistance and durable.","In further embodiments, the device  can include additional features. For example, the device  may include a microphone, speaker, or video camera to allow communication between the user of the device  and an emergency system. In another example, the device  may include an accelerometer to automatically detect falls or other conditions experienced by a user. In yet another example, the device  may include an ambient temperature sensor, skin temperature sensor, or pulse sensor.","The device  may be worn by the user attached to a necklace, a belt clip, or carried in a pocket. According to one embodiment, the device  may be integrated with another wireless device. For example, the device  may be integrated into a Bluetooth device coupled to a mobile phone, such that an emergency service  can call the mobile phone and communicate directly with the user. In another example, the device  may be integrated into a blood glucose meter carried by the user. In yet another example, the device  may be integrated into a watch, or wrist device, worn around the wrist, in which the watch includes a pulse sensor or temperature sensor that provides information to the device  for relay to a base receiver .","Preferably, wireless signals  are transmitted by a wireless transmitter of the device  and received by a wireless receiver  of the base receiver . The base station , described in more detail below in other example embodiments, may function as a command center, or hub, for one or more devices located in a common area. For example, as shown in , the base receiver  may be located inside a house  along with the personal emergency device  and other personal medical devices , .  is a block diagram illustrating an installation of a base receiver in a house according to one embodiment. Other devices coupled to the base receiver  may include a weight scale , a blood glucose meter , a blood pressure monitor (not shown), a pulse monitor (not shown), and\/or exercise equipment (not shown) such as a treadmill. Additional details regarding these devices are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12\/330,837, entitled \u201cGlucose Meter System and Monitor\u201d, and U.S. application Ser. No. 10\/746,325, entitled \u201cWeight loss or weight management system,\u201d which are hereby incorporated by reference.","Preferably, the base receiver  function as a gateway between the devices , , and  and a care system . The care system  can comprise an emergency system such as an emergency service  and\/or a remote care system . And, the emergency service  can be a part of the remote care system . Preferably, the remote care system  is a remote monitoring service for monitoring patients having a chronic disease. The emergency device  could be a button on the base receiver . Communications between the devices  and  and the base receiver  may be wireless, as communication with the device , or may be through wired connections in the house  such as power lines, phone lines, and\/or network lines.","The base receiver  can be coupled to a telco device  for connecting to an emergency system such as the emergency service  and\/or the remote care system . For example, the telco device  may be an access point for a public switched telephone network (PSTN), an internet connection such as a cable modem or a digital subscriber line (DSL) modem, or a wireless internet connection such as a WiFi device or a cellular network device such as a 3G or 4G hotspot. In one embodiment, the telco device  may be integrated with the base receiver  in a single package such that the base receiver  can be directly connected via a telephone line, wireless connection, or Ethernet port to a network , such as the Internet.","The base receiver  can include connections to other devices or include the devices themselves integral with the base receiver . For example, the base receiver  can include video and audio inputs for connecting to a camera, a microphone, or a motion detector. The video and audio inputs can include conventional composite connections or network ports for connecting with IP-based cameras and microphones. The base receiver  can also include an output for a video device and an input for an input device. The base receiver  can interact with a user through the video device and the input device for interacting with the user to perform tasks such as reviewing and\/or analyzing data collected from the devices , , and  and\/or configuring the devices , , and . Additionally, the base receiver  can provide a web-based interface allowing the user to access data and be configured to devices , , and  through their computer or cellular phone by typing an appropriate web address into a web browser or custom software installed on the computer or cellular phone.","Although the base receiver  is shown in  as a gateway for the devices , , and  in the house , use of the base receiver  is not limited to single residences. For example, the base receiver  may be installed in a multi-family dwelling such as an apartment complex, a retirement community, a hospital, or any place within suitable range.","Referring back to , the base receiver  communicates through a network  with the remote care system  and\/or the emergency service . Alternatively, the base receiver  could communicate with other entities, i.e. a family member. The emergency service  can be part of the remote care system  or a separate call center for handling emergency calls. Typically, the base receiver would not directly communicate with a 911 service. Preferably, when a user pushes the button , the emergency device  transmits a wireless signal  to the wireless receiver  of the base station . The base station  recognizes the signal as an emergency signal and places a call, or transmits a signal, to the remote care system  and\/or the emergency service  for immediate help. In one example embodiment, the base receiver  would transmit a signal to the remote care system .","The remote care system  can attempt to determine if the signal is a false alarm or not. For example, the remote care system  could place a call to the user or access a camera in the user's house. If the signal is a false alarm, the remote care system  would take no further action. If the signal is not false, the remote care system  would initiate the call to the emergency service  and can also provide additional information to the emergency service , such as the patient's medical history, trended data collected through the base receiver  (discussed in more detail below), exception reports (discussed in more detail below), or current data available to the base receiver . The base receiver  can also communicate current medical information, such as blood pressure, weight, and requests for assistance, and personal information, such as name, age, and location to the remote care system . The medical information and personal information may be stored in database servers, described below with reference to , at the remote care system .","In another example embodiment, the base receiver  can send a signal to both the remote care system  and the emergency service . In another example embodiment, the base receiver  can send a signal to the emergency service , which may then contact the remote care system  to get information. Alternatively, the remote care system  can transfer information on a periodic basis to the emergency service . When a request for assistance is made through the personal emergency device  by activating the button , the base receiver  contacts an emergency system such as the remote care system  and\/or the emergency services .","According to a preferred embodiment, the base receiver  notifies the emergency services  when the button is activated.  is a flow chart illustrating a method for notifying emergency services according to one embodiment. A method  begins at block  with the base receiver, such as the base receiver  of , receiving an indication that a user has activated a personal emergency device, such as the personal emergency device  of . The method  continues to block  to notify an emergency service, which may be a call center for monitoring such calls. The method then proceeds to block  to provide information to the emergency service. The information provided to the emergency service at block  may include medical information, personal information, and\/or simply an identifier of some type. For example, the emergency service may be provided with medical information such as the user's most recent weight, blood pressure, and blood glucose level available to the base receiver , or trended medical data collected over time by the base receiver  and stored by the remote care system  (thus there would be communication between the remote care system  and the emergency service  at least on a periodic basis) The emergency service  may also be provided with personal information such as the user's age and contact information for relatives and primary medical caregivers.","In a preferred embodiment, the base receiver  would make a call to the emergency service  and transmit a device identifier. The emergency service  can then pull up pertinent records associated with that device identifier. Such records could include name, address, past medical history, trended medical history, current medical information, emergency contact instructions or information, etc. . . .","Any devices currently monitoring the user or the user's environment (i.e. a temperature sensor, motion sensors, cameras, smoke alarms, etc.) may be polled by the base receiver  to acquire new information if available and the new information may be passed to the emergency service . Historical medical information stored in the base receiver  or at the remote care system  may also be transmitted to the emergency service . For example, the base receiver could also cause a signal to go to the remote care system  notifying it that emergency services  has been contacted and that certain information needs to be transmitted to emergency services . Alternatively, emergency services  could make a call to the remote care system  to collect such information.","The remote care system  can record the emergency event as part of the patient's stored medical history. Such event may prompt further follow-up from a nurse or other caregiver. In addition, the base receiver  could be connected to a communication device , such as a speaker phone, a video phone, or other communication device that is either separate from the base receiver  or integral with the base receiver . When the base receiver  sends the signal out to the emergency service , the base receiver  could activate the speaker phone  to answer the next phone call. When the emergency service  calls the house of the user to verify the emergency, the speaker phone  is activated to automatically pick up the call such that the emergency services  may be able to directly communicate with the user. Alternatively, the communication device  could place the call to the emergency service . In addition, the emergency service  can patch in an appropriate nurse or doctor or staff at the remote care system  to help assess the patient's needs.","According to another embodiment, the base receiver  notifies the remote care system  when the button is activated.  is a flow chart illustrating a method for notifying emergency services according to another embodiment. A method  begins at block  with receiving an indication that a user has activated a personal emergency device. The method  continues to block  with notifying the remote care system. The notification to the remote care system may include a specific identifier assigned to the personal emergency device, which allows the remote care system to determine the user assigned to the personal emergency device. For example, a database server in the remote care system may have records linking personal emergency devices assigned to specific individuals. While notifying the remote care system of activation of the personal emergency device, the base receiver may also transmit medical information for the user. For example, the base receiver may transmit a recent weight, blood pressure, and\/or blood glucose level. The base receiver may also poll a device after receiving the indication that the personal emergency device was activated to obtain new information that may be available for transmission to the remote care system.","The method  continues to block  where the remote care system determines if an emergency response is necessary. The remote care system may use an algorithm to examine the medical information and personal information available in the database servers to determine if an emergency response is necessary. The algorithm may consider current values for medical information, historical values for medical information, and trends in the medical information. Preferably, the remote care system includes staff, i.e. doctors, nurses, or other trained professions, to evaluate the user when the remote care system is notified of an activated personal emergency device. The staff may attempt to contact the user through messages or telephone calls to obtain additional information or to determine if a false alert occurred. In addition, an interactive voice response (IVR) system could be used to contact the user. The remote care system can activate cameras, motion detectors, or microphones in the user's home to try to assess the situation.","The staff may receive access to video cameras and\/or microphones connected to the base receiver to check on the status of the user. The video cameras and microphones may otherwise be unavailable to staff at the remote care system. However, when the personal emergency device is activated the video cameras and microphones are temporarily made available to the staff. In another embodiment, the base receiver may activate the video camera and microphone and record input for a short duration and transmit the recorded video and audio for transmission to the remote care system.","The method  continues to block  to determine if an emergency response is necessary. If an emergency response is determined to be necessary, then the method  continues to block  to notify emergency services or 911. According to one embodiment, the remote care system contacts the emergency service on behalf of the user. According to another embodiment, the remote care system authorizes the base receiver to contact the emergency service for the user. When the base receiver is configured to contact the emergency service for the user, the base receiver may include a time-out option, such that if no response is received from the remote care system within a period of time after the personal emergency device is activated, then the base receiver automatically contacts the emergency services for the user.","After notifying emergency services at block , information is provided to the emergency service at block . The information provided at block  may include medical information and personal information. The information may be provided by the base receiver and\/or the remote care system. The information may be relayed by the emergency service to first responders, such that the first responders are adequately prepared to handle the emergency experienced by the user. For example, the first responders may receive data suggesting the user has suffered a heart attack. Thus, the first responders will know to have a defibrillator available.","According to one embodiment, the remote care system may also provide information to a primary caregiver for the user. For example, the remote care system may search the database servers to identify doctors who have treated the user. The remote care system may identify one of the doctors as a primary caregiver and notify the primary caregiver that the user has requested emergency assistance. The remote care system may also connect the primary caregiver to the first responder or provide the primary caregiver of the location to which the user is being transported so that the primary caregiver may arrive at the location with the user. Additionally, the hospital or care facility can be notified that the patient is on her way.","The emergency response device described above may be provided to patients suffering from chronic diseases, such as congestive heart failure, that are being routinely monitored by a remote monitoring system, such as the remote care system  of . These patients normally undergo drug therapy and lifestyle changes to manage their medical condition. In these patients, the medical professional caregiver monitors certain wellness parameters and symptoms including: weakness, fatigue, weight gain, edema, dyspnea (difficulty breathing or shortness of breath), nocturnal cough, orthopnea (inability to lie flat in bed because of shortness of breath), and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (awakening short of breath relieved by sitting or standing); and body weight to measure the response of drug therapy. Preferably, the wellness parameters and symptoms are remotely monitored through equipment such as the personal medical devices ,  of  and collected and transmitted by the base receiver  of . The information collected by these devices allows a medical professional caregiver to determine the effectiveness of the drug therapy, the patient's condition, whether the patient's condition is improving or whether the patient requires hospitalization or an office consultation to prevent the condition from getting worse. All of this information, including the doctors notes, are stored by, monitored and analyzed by the remote care system  and associated with the user. As such, the user can also be given an emergency device  to connect to its base receiver . When the user pushes the button , any or all of the collected data and\/or the medical professional caregiver's opinions may be provided to first responders, the emergency service , a doctor, or a hospital in response to an emergency signaled by a personal emergency device  of .","Information regarding a patient's health condition may be obtained prior to, during, or after the emergency response through a home monitoring apparatus  connected to or integrated with the base receiver  of .  is a block diagram illustrating a home monitoring apparatus according to one example embodiment. A patient home monitoring apparatus (e.g., the COMMANDER\u2122 or TELESCALE\u2122) outputs a message  such as \u201cWelcome to Cardiocom. Ready for Health Check?\u201d on the output display device . A patient will then proceed by selecting \u201cYes\u201d or \u201cNo\u201d on the touch pad . If the patient selects \u201cYes,\u201d the Health Check will begin. If the patient has selected \u201cYes,\u201d the patient will then answer a series of twelve Health Check questions (listed below) by pressing \u201cYes\u201d or \u201cNo\u201d on the keypad . An example list of questions that the patient may be queried on for a patient with chronic heart disease are as follows: 1) Are you feeling short of breath? 2) Are you coughing more than usual? 3) Are your ankles or feet swollen? 4) Does your stomach feel bloated? 5) Having more chest discomfort (angina)? 6) Are you urinating less than usual? 7) Are you more tired than usual? 8) Do you feel dizzy or lightheaded? 9) Are you taking your medication? 10) Are you reducing your sodium? 11) Did you exercise yesterday?","During the Health Check procedure, the patient will also be asked to weigh him\/herself. Accordingly, the patient will be asked to step off the scale  of  so it can \u201cauto-zero.\u201d At which time the message \u201c000.0 lbs.\u201d will appear on the output display . Then, the patient will be asked to step on the scale  of . Next, the patient home monitoring apparatus  will display the patient's: 1) Current Weight (e.g., 155.0 lbs.); 2) Variance to Prior Day's Weight (e.g., gained 1.0 lbs.); 3) Maximum Allowed Weight (e.g., 150.0 lbs.); 4) Variance of Maximum Allowed Weight (e.g., exceeded Maximum Allowed Weight by 5.0 lbs.)","The Health Check is now complete and a message \u201cDo you need to revise your answers?\u201d will appear. This gives the patient an opportunity to revise any incorrect answers before transmission to a central computer system, such as the remote care system  of . If \u201cNo\u201d is selected (e.g., no revisions), the data will be transmitted to the central computer system and the message \u201cThank you. Have a good day!\u201d then \u201cYour data is being transmitted\u201d will appear on the display . If revisions are required and \u201cYes\u201d is selected, the Health Check will be repeated.","The medical and personal information described in the Health Check procedure above may be stored on the remote care system  of  and transmitted to an emergency center  automatically at the activation of the button or after review by a medical healthcare professional. All or some (e.g., the most recent) of the medical and personal information may be stored by the base receiver , which may transmit the data to the emergency service .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["110","600","108","110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B","b":["762","762","764","766","768","770","772","774"]},"The user may then either return to the main menu or enter another physician record. The user presses OK  to enter the physician's record into the database  and return to the main menu. Alternatively, the user may then presses Add  to enter the physician's record into the database  and continue entering additional physician records. At any time the user may press Cancel  to stop and return to the main menu. Accordingly, no information will be entered.","To edit a Physician Record a user may select File, Open, Physician on the menu or may click on the appropriate icon. The user may then enter the physician's last name in the name box  or use the scroll-down menu  to locate a physician already contained in the database. Once the desired record is located, the user may select OK and the Edit Physician screen will be displayed. Accordingly, the user may then make any necessary changes in the physician record. Pressing OK will save the changes to the physician record. Pressing Cancel returns the user to the main menu.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["886","888","890","892","894","896","898","800","802","804","806","808"]},"The user may then proceed to enter additional patient Personal Information including the weight information specified by the physician (e.g., a Cardiologist). This information is also entered in the appropriate fields. The following is an example of the additional information that may be entered in the patient's Personal Information Record: 1) Maximum Allowed Weight  (lbs.)\u2014This is the weight (lbs.) that the patient is instructed not to exceed; and 2) Trigger Weight Change  (lbs.) OR (%)\u2014This is the variance in weight from the Maximum Allowed Weight that will prompt an Exception. If the patient's weight is greater than or equal to the Maximum Allowed Weight plus the Trigger Weight Change, an Exception Report should be printed and sent to the physician. The trigger Weight Change  may be entered in pounds (lbs.) or percent (%) of Maximum Allowed Weight.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["914","916","918","916","918"]},"To enter the medication(s) in the patient record the user may then enter the medication Name using either the pull-down menu or manual entry. Medications may be permanently added to the pull-down menu by manually entering the medication name and following the instructions in the System. The user may then enter the medication Dose (e.g., 10 mg.) in corresponding dose field . Finally, the user may enter the medication frequency in 9\u00d7\/day (e.g., 2) in the medication frequency field .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1024","1026","1024","1030"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":"1132"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1234","1234","1236","1238","1240","1242","1244"]},"When finished entering the patient information, the user may either return to the main menu or enter another patient record. Pressing OK enters the patient record into the system database and program execution returns to the main menu. Pressing Add allows the user to enter the patient record into the database and continue entering additional patient records. Pressing Cancel allows the user return to the main menu. accordingly, no information will be entered.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1346","1346","1348","1350","1352","1354","1356","1358","1360"]},"Once the desired record is located, the user may press OK. The Edit Patient screen  will then be displayed and the user may make the necessary changes in the patient record. Pressing OK saves the changes to the patient record. Otherwise, pressing Cancel returns the user to the main menu and no information will be changed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1462","1462","1464","1466","1472"]},"In one embodiment, patients requiring attention will appear in the Unverified Exceptions screen . These patients have been identified and categorized by: 1) Weight and Symptoms : patient is above their Maximum Allowed Weight+Trigger Weight Change AND has reported symptoms of CHF; 2) Weight : patient is above their Maximum Allowed Weight+Trigger Weight Change; 3) Symptoms : patient has reported symptoms of CHF; and 4) Not Reported : patient has not reported their daily Health Check.","The Unverified Exceptions screen  is the System's main menu and is always displayed. To go to Unverified Exceptions from another screen, the user may select Window, Unverified Exceptions or just click on it in the background. Patients who need to be contacted are listed in one of the following four columns: 1) Weight and Symptoms ; 2) Weight ; 3) Symptoms ; and 4) Not Reported .","Once the System has issued an Exception, in order to resolve the Exception, the medical professional caregiver will need to contact the patient, verify the problem, and notify the physician or health professional as necessary. At the beginning of each day, all patients who have not reported their Health Check will appear in the Not Reported column.","In one embodiment of the invention, to verify a weight and\/or symptom exception the user may click on the patient's name in the Unverified Exceptions screen. This will take the user directly to the Exception Verification screen.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1574","1574"]},"Subsequently, the user will contact the patient by telephone. The patient's telephone number  is listed in the top left-hand corner under the patient's name. Once the patient has been contacted, the user then goes to the Vitals and Symptoms section  and may verify the information reported in from the patient home monitoring apparatus. The caregiver may verify this data during the review process with the patient.","During the process, the user then goes to the Symptoms section . If the patient has reported a specific symptom, the Reported field adjacent to that question will display an \u201cX\u201d and the question will be highlighted in bold. The user will confirm all of the patient's Health Check answers.","The user then goes to the Medication section . The Medication section  asks the patient if he\/she has been taking the medications in the doses and frequencies listed. If the patient has not been taking their medications as specified, the user will state the discrepancy in the Comments section . If the physician has revised the medication regimen, the user will make the appropriate changes by selecting Edit Medications.","The user then goes to the Comments section . The user has the option of adding multiple types of comments for the patient. These comments include: Impression, Nurse Assessment, Plan and Comments. The user may add to the patient's information by clicking the mouse on the Add button . The comment entry window will then appear. The user may then proceed to enter notes in the Nurse Assessment, Comments and Plan boxes. Pressing OK will date stamp and store the notes in the exception report in the database.","The user may view the Comments, Impression, Nurse Assessment or Plan information that was just entered. The user may also view the previous comments by type. The Exception Report is a document that alerts the physician when the patient's reported symptoms and\/or weight is outside predetermined limits; or when the patient does not report their daily Health Check. Now the Exception Report is ready to be printed. The Exception Report is stored in the database.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1690","1662","1690","1690","1692","1694"]},"If the user is able to speak with the patient, the user will ask them why they have not used the patient monitoring device. Accordingly, the user will record the reason in the Comments box. Then, the user should ask the patient to complete the Health Check using the patient monitoring device. Otherwise, the user may verify the patient's weight and symptoms during this phone call by pressing the Exception Verification button on the bottom left side of the screen. Pressing OK, returns the program to the Unverified Exceptions screen. The patient's name will remain in the Not Reported column in the Unverified Exceptions screen until the user is able to obtain the patient's Health Check information. An Exception Report will not be issued.","If there is a change in the patient's status, the user can record this information in the Patient Status section  by choosing one of the following locations: ER (Emergency Room); Hospital; Vacation; or Other. The user should then enter the Reason the patient is unable to use the System by double-clicking on the Reason field and selecting one of the three choices: CHF, Cardiac or Other. The date is then entered in the From box. If no date is entered, the System will automatically enter the current date. The date the patient will be returning is then entered in the \u201cTo\u201d box (If you do not enter a date, the System will enter the same date that is in the \u201cFrom\u201d box.).","In one embodiment, an Exception Report may be a document that alerts the physician or healthcare professional to significant changes that have occurred in a patient's weight and wellness after the reported information has been verified by the user. It is also used to identify patients who have not reported their Health Check. Exception Reports can be viewed on the screen and printed for physician review. The Exception Report may also be transmitted to the emergency service  for review during an emergency by first responders.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1700","1700","1702","1702","1712","1700","1704","1706","1708","1700","1704","1706","1708","1704","1706","1708","1704","1706","1708","1704","1706","1708","1710"]},"In one embodiment, the server  may submit a query to select data from the storage devices  and . The server  may store consolidated data sets in a consolidated data storage device . In such an embodiment, the server  may refer back to the consolidated data storage device  to obtain a set of records. Alternatively, the server  may query each of the data storage devices , , and  independently or in a distributed query to obtain the set of data elements. In another alternative embodiment, multiple databases may be stored on a single consolidated data storage device .","In various embodiments, the server  may communicate with the data storage devices , , and  over the data-bus . The data-bus  may comprise a storage area network (SAN), a local area network (LAN), or the like. The communication infrastructure may include Ethernet, fibre-channel arbitrated loop (FC-AL), fibre-channel over Ethernet (FCoE), small computer system interface (SCSI), internet small computer system interface (iSCSI), serial advanced technology attachment (SATA), advanced technology attachment (ATA), cloud attached storage, and\/or other similar data communication schemes associated with data storage and communication. For example, the server  may communicate indirectly with the data storage devices , , , and  by first communicating with a storage server (not shown) or the storage controller .","The server  may include modules for interfacing with the data storage devices , , , and , may include modules for interfacing with the network , and\/or modules for interfacing with a user through the user interface device . In a further embodiment, the server  may host an engine, application plug-in, or application programming interface (API).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17","FIG. 1"],"b":["1800","1702","108","1802","1804","1802","1802","1802","1802"]},"The computer system  also may include random access memory (RAM) , which may be synchronous RAM (SRAM), dynamic RAM (DRAM), and\/or synchronous dynamic RAM (SDRAM). The computer system  may utilize RAM  to store the various data structures used by a software application such as databases, tables, and\/or records. The computer system  may also include read only memory (ROM)  which may be PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, optical storage, or the like. The ROM may store configuration information for booting the computer system . The RAM  and the ROM  hold user and system data.","The computer system  may also include an input\/output (I\/O) adapter , a communications adapter , a user interface adapter , and a display adapter . The I\/O adapter  and\/or the user interface adapter  may, in certain embodiments, enable a user to interact with the computer system . In a further embodiment, the display adapter  may display a graphical user interface associated with a software or web-based application on a display device , such as a monitor or touch screen.","The I\/O adapter  may couple one or more storage devices , such as one or more of a hard drive, a flash drive, a compact disk (CD) drive, a floppy disk drive, and a tape drive, to the computer system . The communications adapter  may be adapted to couple the computer system  to a network, which may be one or more of a LAN, WAN, and\/or the Internet. The communications adapter  may be adapted to couple the computer system  to a storage device . The user interface adapter  couples user input devices, such as a keyboard , a pointing device , and\/or a touch screen (not shown) to the computer system . The display adapter  may be driven by the CPU  to control the display on the display device .","The applications of the present disclosure are not limited to the architecture of computer system . Rather the computer system  is provided as an example of one type of computing device that may be adapted to perform the functions of a server  and\/or the user interface device . For example, any suitable processor-based device may be utilized including, without limitation, personal data assistants (PDAs), tablet computers, smartphones, computer game consoles, and multi-processor servers. Moreover, the systems and methods of the present disclosure may be implemented on application specific integrated circuits (ASIC), very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuits, or other circuitry. In fact, persons of ordinary skill in the art may utilize any number of suitable structures capable of executing logical operations according to the described embodiments.","If implemented in firmware and\/or software, the functions described above may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Examples include non-transitory computer-readable media encoded with a data structure and computer-readable media encoded with a computer program. Computer-readable media includes physical computer storage media. A storage medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc, where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","In addition to storage on computer readable medium, instructions and\/or data may be provided as signals on transmission media included in a communication apparatus. For example, a communication apparatus may include a transceiver having signals indicative of instructions and data. The instructions and data are configured to cause one or more processors to implement the functions outlined in the claims.","In one example embodiment, the base receiver  of  can be configured as a patient monitoring apparatus for recording medical information, querying personal medical devices for obtaining medical information, and querying one or more individual users to obtain medical information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 1"],"b":["2000","108","2002","2004","2006","2000","2000","2002","2006","2004","2006"]},"The patient monitoring apparatus  of  may be programmed to contain a plurality of question hierarchies, each of which relates to a health-related symptom. Each hierarchy contains a set of questions. Each question in a given hierarchy is aimed at characterizing a particular symptom in a particular way. Certain questions within a hierarchy may be deemed moot (and thus will not be asked) in light of a patient's answer to a previous question. Details regarding question hierarchies will be discussed in greater detail, below. In one example embodiment, the patient monitoring apparatus  may be programmed by the remote are system, such as the remote care system  of . Each time the patient monitoring apparatus  communicates with the remote care system, the remote care system can download new instructions to the patient monitoring apparatus.","By programming the patient monitoring apparatus  to contain a plurality of question hierarchies, the unit  attains great flexibility as a tool for monitoring chronic diseases of many varieties. A particular chronic disease may be monitored by asking questions about symptoms associated with the disease. Thus, for example, the unit  may be made to monitor the health status of a patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) by querying the patient, using questions extracted from question hierarchies relating to symptoms associated with COPD. The same unit  may be used to monitor a patient with diabetes by asking questions extracted from a different set of question hierarchies, which are related to symptoms associated with diabetes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 20","FIG. 1"],"b":["1100","110","1105","1102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0124"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20"],"b":["2000","2000"]},"As can be seen from , the system comprises a patient monitoring apparatus  and a central computer . The central computer  is housed within a facility  that is located remote from the patient monitoring apparatus . For example, the patient monitoring apparatus  may be located in the home of an ambulatory patient , while the central computer  is located in a health care facility .","As described previously, the patient monitoring apparatus  is composed of a central processor unit , which is in communication with an input device , an output device , and a memory device . The memory device  has a plurality of question hierarchies stored within it, as discussed more fully, below.","As discussed previously, the output device  may be used to prompt the patient  with questions regarding the patient's wellness. The output device  may consist of a visual display unit that displays the questions in a language of the patient's  choosing. Alternatively, the output device  may consist of an audio output unit that vocalizes the questions. In one embodiment, the audio output unit  may vocalize the questions in a language of the patient's  choosing.","The patient monitoring apparatus  communicates with the central computer , such as the remote care system , via a network ; the patient monitoring apparatus  uses a communication device  to modulate\/demodulate a carrier signal for transmission via the network , while the central computer uses a communication device  for the same purpose. Examples of suitable communication devices  and  include internal and external modems for transmission over a telephone network, network cards (such as an Ethernet card) for transmission over a local area network, a network card coupled to some form of modem (such as a DSL modem or a cable modem) for transmission over a wide area network (such as the Internet), or an RF transmitter for transmission to a wireless network. A system composed as described above may be programmed to carry on periodic (e.g., daily) questioning of a patient , with respect to the patient's  perception regarding his or her own status vis-a-vis a particular set of symptoms. For example, a patient suffering from COPD is likely to experience shortness of breath, both during the day and during the night (amongst many other symptoms). Thus, the system may question the patient  about his own perceptions regarding his shortness of breath. The questions used to determine the patient's  judgment about his own shortness of breath during the day are contained in a first question hierarchy. Similarly, questions related to the patient's  shortness of breath during the night are contained in a second question hierarchy. The first hierarchy, which is related to shortness of breath during the day, may be structured as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Question Hierarchy: Shortness of Breath During the Day"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Question #1","Are you feeling more short of breath?"]},{"entry":["Question #2","Do you feel more short of breath in response to physical"]},{"entry":[{},"exertion?"]},{"entry":["Question #3","Do you feel more short of breath during periods of rest?"]},{"entry":["Question #4","Does stress make you feel more short of breath?"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Each of the questions in the hierarchy is related to day-time shortness of breath. The first question is broadly focused, simply asking \u201cAre you feeling more short of breath?\u201d Clearly, if the patient  were to answer \u201cno\u201d to such a question, the remainder of the questions would be unnecessary. Thus, the system may be designed to prevent the remaining questions from being asked (this will be discussed in greater detail, below). Question #2 asks a question that is more particularized than question #1: \u201cDo you feel more short of breath in response to physical exertion?\u201d An affirmative answer to this question is more serious, and provides more particularized information, than an affirmative answer to the broader query presented in question #1. Although not essential, each question hierarchy may be constructed in accordance with this paradigm: (1) a negative answer to a preceding questions negates the need to ask any additional questions in the hierarchy; (2) successive questions relate to increasingly more particularized aspects of a given symptom; and (3) successive questions relate to an increasing severity level of a given symptom.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 21","FIG. 21","FIG. 22"],"b":["2108","2108","2200","2201","2202","2203","2204","2205","2206","2200","2108","2201","2000","2104"]},"Each of the hierarchies  depicted in  possesses the above-recited structure, although other structures are possible, some of which are described below. One skilled in the art understands that although each hierarchy  is depicted as consisting of three questions, a hierarchy may consist of any number of questions, including a single question.","As depicted in , the memory device  is in data communication with the monitoring device's  microprocessor , which, in turn, is in data communication with a remote computer  (not depicted in ) via a network  and via a communication device  (also not depicted in ). The remote computer  transmits a symptom identifier  to the monitoring device's  microprocessor . The symptom identifier  corresponds to a question hierarchy . For example, a symptom identifier with a value of \u201c1\u201d may correspond to hierarchy , while a symptom identifier with a value of \u201c2\u201d corresponds to hierarchy , etc. The microprocessor  responds to having received a symptom identifier  by executing the corresponding hierarchy (i.e., asking a question within the hierarchy, and deciding whether or not to ask a subsequent question therein). Thus, the patient monitoring device  may be made to execute n number of question hierarchies by transmitting to it n number of symptom identifiers.","Given that a known set of symptoms are correlated with any given chronic disease, the patient monitoring device  may be tailored to monitor the health status of a patient  with a particular disease by executing question hierarchies  relating to symptoms corresponding with the patient's  particular disease. Thus, the remote computer  may be programmed with software that presents a menu for each patient . The menu allows the health care provider to select from among a set of chronic diseases. Based upon the selected chronic disease, the remote computer  transmits one or more symptom identifiers (which correspond to symptoms known to accompany the selected disease) to the patient monitoring apparatus . The remote computer  receives the patient's  responses, and scores the response in accordance with a scoring algorithm, discussed in detail below. Based upon the outcome of the score, an exception report may be generated, meaning that a health care provider will be notified of the patient's possible need for assistance. Alternatively, the remote computer  may be programmed to transmit an e-mail message or a numeric page to communicate the information concerning the patient . In principle, any data transmission communicating the patient's  potential need for assistance may be transmitted. In certain situations, it may be desirable for the patient monitoring device  to obtain information regarding a physiological parameter. For example, if a particular chronic disease is associated with a fever, the patient monitoring device may want to know information concerning the patient's  body temperature. Two general approaches exist for gaining information concerning a physiological parameter. The monitoring system  may be adapted for interfacing with a physiological parameter-measuring unit, as has been disclosed with reference to other embodiments of the invention. The parameter-measuring unit can then directly measure the physiological parameter and transmit the data to the central computer . Many times, this is an appropriate approach. Accordingly, according to one embodiment of the invention, the microprocessor  may interface with a physiological parameter-measuring device, such as a scale or a thermometer, as previously described herein. On the other hand, oftentimes it is possible to ask the patient to measure the parameter for himself (e.g., take his own temperature). This approach has an advantage, in that the cost of obtaining the information is minimized. This approach is particularly useful when an exact measurement of a physiological parameter is not as useful as simply knowing whether the parameter crosses some threshold. Under these circumstances, the cost of directly obtaining precise information may outweigh the financial benefit of knowing such information. Thus, as depicted in , a question hierarchy  may be designed to ask a patient whether one of his physiological parameters exceeds a threshold, T.","The question hierarchy  depicted in  is similar to the question hierarchies  discussed with reference to . The question hierarchy  corresponds to a symptom identifier , which is transmitted to the patient monitoring device  by a remote computer . The hierarchy  possesses several questions Q1, Q2, and Q3, some of which may go unasked, if a decision point D1, D2, or D3 terminates the flow of questioning by transferring execution flow to a terminal point T1, T2 or T3. Of particular note in the question hierarchy  of  is the first question, Q1, and the first decision point D1. The first question, Q1, asks the patient  if a particular physiological parameter of his exceeds a given threshold, T. The value represented by T is transmitted to the patient monitoring device  by the remote computer , as is depicted by threshold datum . Therefore, to invoke this particular hierarchy , the remote computer should transmit both a symptom identifier  and a threshold datum . In response, the patient monitoring device  responds by asking the patient  if his particular physiological parameter exceeds the threshold, T. Next, as is depicted by decision point D1, the patient monitoring device  determines whether or not to proceed with further questions, on the basis of whether or not the parameter exceeded the threshold, T.","Another situation likely to arise in the context of monitoring a patient  with a chronic illness is that the patient  is to be queried regarding his faithfulness to a prescribed health care regimen. For example, if the patient  is a diabetic, the patient is likely to be on a strict diet. The patient monitoring device  may be programmed to ask the patient  if he has been following his diet. If the patient  answers \u201cyes,\u201d the device  may respond by praising the patient \u2014a tactic that may be particularly advantageous for young patients. On the other hand, if the patient  answers \u201cno,\u201d the device  may respond by \u25aa reminding the patient  to adhere to his diet.  depicts a question hierarchy  designed to achieve the results of praising a patient  for adhering to a prescribed regimen, or reminding the patient  of the importance of adhering thereto. Of particular note in the question hierarchy  depicted in  is the first question, Q1. The first question, Q1, asks the patient  if he has been adhering to a health care regimen (such as, a diet or a medication regimen). Next, at decision point D1, flow of execution is adjusted based upon whether or not the patient  has been adhering to the regimen. If the patient  has been adhering to the regimen, the patient  is presented with a statement, S1, praising the patient. Otherwise, the patient  is presented with a statement, S2, reminding the patient  to adhere to his regimen. In either event, execution flow is passed to the second question, Q2, and hierarchy\u201d execution continues in accordance with the flow described with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0137"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["2200","2100","2200","2104","2100","220","2200","2500","2500","2500","2104"]},"Continuing the discussion assuming that a question set  of {3, 5} had been transmitted, execution of the hierarchy commences with the asking of the first question, Q1. Next, at decision point D1, the patient's  answer to the first question is assessed to determine whether the subsequent question in the hierarchy should be asked. If the answer is such that ordinarily none of the remaining questions should be asked, execution would typically flow to terminal point T1. However, in this embodiment, a second decision point, D2, is interposed between decision point D1 and terminal point T1. At the second decision point, D2, it is determined whether the question set  contains a question number that is higher than the question number that was just asked. In the case of the present example, the question set  contains two such question numbers, because question numbers 3 and 5 are higher than the present question number, 1. If the question set  does contain a question number that is higher than the question number just asked, then execution flows to the smallest such question number (in this case, question number 3, Q3). Thereafter the process repeats, thereby ensuring that each of the question numbers in the question set will be asked.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0139"},"figref":"FIG. 26","b":["2200","2100","2200","2100","2208","2200","2600","2600","2600"]},"Continuing on with the example, execution of the hierarchy  of  commences with a look-up operation, L1. During the look-up operation L1, the first element of the sequence set  is used to index into an array containing the questions within the hierarchy. In the present example, since \u201c3\u201d is the first element of the sequence set, the third question from the array is retrieved. Next, the retrieved question (identified as Q1 in ) is asked, and execution of the hierarchy proceeds as has been generally described with reference to . Thus, by inserting a look-up operation L1, L2, or L3 prior to each questioning operation Q1, Q2, or Q3, any desired sequence of questioning may be commanded.","The question hierarchies disclosed in  may be programmed into the memory device  of the patient monitoring device , thereby obviating the need to transmit the text of the questions from the central computer  to the patient monitoring device . One skilled in the art understands that the question hierarchies  may be implemented in the form of an application-specific integrated circuit, as well. Optionally, the questions within the hierarchies  may written to be answered with either a \u201cyes\u201d or \u201cno,\u201d achieving the advantage of simplifying the input required from the patient , and thereby necessitating only \u201cyes\u201d or \u201cno\u201d buttons for the input device . Further, any of the preceding question hierarchies  forms may be combined.","As described earlier, the memory device  may store each of the question hierarchies  in a plurality of languages, so as to permit patients  of many nationalities to use the device . If the output device  is an audio output unit, the questions within each of the question hierarchies  maybe stored in a digital audio format in the memory device . Accordingly, the questions are presented to the patient  as a spoken interrogatory, in the language of the patient's  choice.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0143"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 27"],"b":["2104","2200","2700","2200","2104","2104"]},"In operation , the point value of each of the questions actually asked to the patient  is determined. Thus, questions that were not asked to a patient  are not included in this point total. In operation , the patient's  earned point value is totaled. Then, in operation , the patient's  earned point total (determined in operation ) is divided by the total possible point value (determined in operation ).","In operation , it is determined whether the fraction found in operation  exceeds a threshold (as with the point assignment scheme, the threshold may be defined by the health care provider). If so, the patient's health care provider is notified (perhaps by the issuance of an exception report), as shown in operation . Finally, the process terminates in operation .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0146"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 28","FIG. 27"],"b":["2104","2200","2800","2200","2700"]},"Next, in operation , a threshold is assigned to each invoked hierarchy . Again, this threshold may be assigned by default, and the health care provider may be given an option to adjust this threshold. The threshold of operation  applies to each hierarchy , meaning that a decision will be made, on a hierarchy-by-hierarchy basis, whether the patient  has accumulated sufficient points in a particular hierarchy to cross a threshold assigned to that hierarchy . In operation , a second threshold is assigned. The threshold of operation  relates to the number of hierarchies  that may be allowed to exceed the threshold of operation .","In operation , the number of points earned by the patient  in each hierarchy  is determined. Then in operation , it is determined whether the number of hierarchies  in which the threshold of operation  was crossed exceeds the threshold of operation . If so, the patient's health care provider is notified, as shown in operation . Finally, the process terminates in operation .","The methods of  are preferably performed by the remote computer , although they may be performed by any other processing device. The aforementioned methods are preferably embodied as software stored in a memory device within the central computer . However, they may be embodied on a computer-readable medium, such as a compact disc, a floppy disc, a network cable, or any other form of media readable by a computer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 29"],"b":["2900","2902","2904","2906","2908","2910","2912","2914","2900"]},"As shown in , the typical flow for such a scheme is for the questions within a first category, such as category  , to be asked followed by the questions within a second category, such as category  , to be asked. Following this, the questions in category   are asked, and finally the questions in category   are asked. Of course, in principle, a questioning scheme may have questions organized into any number of categories not simply four as is shown in . Further, it is not necessary that the categories be preceded through in sequential fashion, although this is has been shown in . As shown by the question sequence composed of categories , , , and , a given category of questions may be deactivated. In this example category   is deactivated, as is indicated by the cross hatching. In such an instance, the questions within category   are asked, category  is skipped because it is deactivated, and the execution flow proceeds to category   and category  . As is discussed later, it is possible for any number of categories to be activated or deactivated and it is also possible to activate or deactivate categories based on a predetermined schedule such as activating or deactivating categories based on the day of the week. For example, category   may be activated on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and deactivated on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. Similarly, example category   may be activated on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays, but deactivated on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. Categories may be activated and deactivated based on date ranges, as well.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0152"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 29"],"b":["3000","3002","3004","3006","3000","3002","3004","3006"]},"Intra-category execution flow is shown for the sake of example. Turning to question category , it can be seen that therein is included a question  followed by a branch instruction . If, for example, category  were related to the topic of overeating, question  may read \u201cdid you eat more than three meals today?\u201d At branch instruction  the answer of the person using the monitoring unit is evaluated, and the flow of execution is directed based on the person's answer. For example if the person answered \u201cno,\u201d i.e., he did not eat more than three meals that day, the flow may go on to statement instruction , which may be a praise statement. For example praise statement  may read \u201cgood job.\u201d Execution flow would then move on to category . On the other hand, if the person answered that he had eaten more than three meals, execution flow would have moved from branch instruction  directly to category .","Category  shows an intra-category execution flow that is a little more complicated than the one shown with reference to category . Assuming for the sake of example that question category  was directed toward the topic of emotional eating, then question  may read \u201cwere you happy today?\u201d The flow then moves on to branch instruction . If the person had answers \u201cyes,\u201d flow proceeds on to the next active question category, question category  (because question category  is depicted as being deactivated). On the other hand, if the person answers \u201cno\u201d to the question \u201cwhere you happy today,\u201d then flow proceeds from branch instruction  to follow-up question , which may read \u201cdid you eat to feel better?\u201d The person's answer is evaluated at branch instruction . Assuming the person answered that he did not eat to feel better, once again flow would move on to question category . On the other hand, if the person answered that he had eaten to feel better, then execution flow moves on to reminder statement  which may read \u201cRemember to stick to your meal plan.\u201d Thereafter execution flow would move on to category .","Thus, as can be seen from the preceding example, question categories , , , and  may include: (1) questions related to a topic; (2) branch instructions that control the flow of execution based upon the person's answer to the questions; (3) follow-up questions; and (4) praise or reminder statements based upon the person's answers to the questions. Generally, the flow from category to category is sequential, although this is not necessary. Generally, execution flow skips over deactivated question categories and proceeds on to the next active question category.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0157","num":"0156"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 31"],"b":["3100","3102","3104","3106","3108","3110","3112"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0157"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 31"],"b":["14","14"]},"Execution flow begins with question : \u201cAre you having regular meals\/snacks?\u201d If the person answers \u201cyes,\u201d and if the monitoring unit is in weight management mode, execution flows to praise statement , which may read, \u201cYou are focused on your goals!\u201d Thereafter, execution flow proceeds to question . On the other hand, if the monitoring unit is in weight loss mode, execution flow moves on to question , regardless of the person's answer. Question  reads, \u201cAre you choosing healthy foods?\u201d Once again, if the person answers \u201cyes,\u201d and if the monitoring unit is in weight management mode, execution flow moves on to praise statement , which may read \u201cGreat job with this system! Keep it up!\u201d As before, if the monitoring unit is in weight loss mode, execution flow moves on to question , irrespective of the person's answer. Question  reads \u201cdid you follow your meal plan?\u201d If the person answers \u201cyes,\u201d execution flow moves on to praise statement . Praise statement  may be different based upon whether the monitoring unit is in weight loss mode or weight management mode. For example, if the monitoring unit is in weight loss mode, praise statement  may read, \u201cYou're on your way to success.\u201d If on the other hand the monitoring unit is in weight management mode, praise statement  may read, \u201cGood job!\u201d Thereafter as can be seen from  the remaining questions in this question category are skipped and the next activated category is executed. On the other hand if the person were to answer \u201cno\u201d to question , execution flow moves on to question , which reads \u201cDid you eat more than N calories\u201d. \u201cN\u201d is a variable which may be set by the remote computer, such as the remote computer  depicted in , and may be individualized for a particular user. Thereafter, execution flow moves on to question , which reads \u201cDid you follow your breakfast meal plan?\u201d Irrespective of the person's answer, execution flow moves on to question , which reads \u201cDid you follow your lunch meal plan\u201d. If the person answers \u201cyes,\u201d and the monitoring unit is in weight loss mode, execution flow moves on to praise statement , which may read \u201cGreat job with this system! Keep it up!\u201d Thereafter, execution flow moves on to question . On the other hand, if the monitoring unit is in weight management mode execution flow moves from question  to question  irrespective of the person's answer. The final question in the exemplary question category reads \u201cdid you follow your meal plan?\u201d Upon answering this question execution flow moves on to the next active category.","Although  shows specific questions that may be included within a question category directed to meal planning, other question categories may exist in a system for weight loss or weight management. Those categories may include categories directed toward dietary recording, overeating, skipping of meals, eating at home, portion size, eating out, grocery shopping behavior, label reading, water consumption, happiness, stress, depression, support, body image, fit of clothing, body measurements, program satisfaction, exercise and lesson plans.","In sum,  depicts the following general principles. The monitoring unit may be programmed to be in one of a plurality of modes of operation. Based on the mode of operation, the monitoring unit may alter intra-category and\/or inter-category execution flow. For example, the monitoring unit may ask a different follow-up question, may give a different praise or reminder statement, may execute a different category, may omit a follow-up question, and\/or may omit a praise or reminder statement, based upon the selected mode of operation. Although not depicted by , each of the questions (such as -) within a category are individually activatable and deactivatable. Individual questions may be activated or deactivated according to a schedule, or may be activated or deactivated indefinitely. For example, any question within a group may be deactivated for a given use, although the group as a whole may be active. Thus, for example, the question \u201cAre you choosing healthy foods?\u201d (question ) may be activated on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, but deactivated on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. Conversely, a question may be activated, although the group in which the question resides is deactivated. Such programmability permits a manageable number of questions to be presented to the person using the monitoring unit. Further, such programmability allows the person's experience to vary from day to day, so that the person maintains his or her interest in the unit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0161"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 32","FIG. 32","FIGS. 11 and 21"],"b":["3600","3602","1100","2100"]},"Upon acquisition of the physiological data and patient answers, an initial assessment process  is initiated. The assessment process  may be performed by the patient monitoring device (such as the base receiver  of ), or may be initiated by a remote computing system (such as the remote care system  of ) with which the patient monitoring device communicates. The assessment process analyzes the patient answers and physiological data, as described previously herein, in order to arrive at a preliminary conclusion regarding whether the patient may need medical attention (for example, a preliminary conclusion may be drawn that the patient is experiencing an acute episode of a chronic disease, and therefore receive further medical attention). If the assessment process  determines that the patient may need medical attention and\/or further clinical triage, an alert is generated. As used herein, the terms \u201calert\u201d and \u201cexception\u201d are synonymous.","In response to the generation of an alert, a verification process  is initiated. The verification process  involves analysis of both the data set (answers and physiological data) operated upon by the assessment process  and additional data. The additional data may come in the form of additional patient answers to additional questions. On the basis of the original data set and the additional data, a determination is made whether the patient actually needs medical assistance.","Traditionally, the verification process  has been performed by trained medical personnel, such as by a nurse, case manager or disease manager. Typically, a nurse obtains the original data set that was the basis for the alert, and examines the information therein. Thereafter, the nurse places a telephone call to the patient, and questions the patient further, in order to determine if further medical intervention is required.","On any given day, a call center may expect to observe an alert generated by 10%-20% of its telemonitored patient populace. A typical nurse can perform on the order of forty to fifty calls per day, meaning that a single nurse can manage on the order of 250 patients. From these FIGUREs, it can be seen that the number of patients a particular call center can manage is directly related to the number of nurses or operators employed. Unfortunately, nurses are oftentimes in short supply and may be expensive. Therefore, employment of a multitude of nurses tends to drive health care costs up, and perhaps prevents some of the populace from obtaining the health care services they need.","To address the aforementioned challenge, the verification process  may be automated, so as to reduce or eliminate the need for nurse involvement in the process .  depicts a kernel for automation of the assessment and verification scheme presented in .","The kernel depicted in  includes modules. The modules may be embodied as software, firmware, or hardware, such as one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), as is understood by those of skill in the art. As can be seen, the kernel of  includes modules for implementation of the assessment and verification processes  and  described with reference to . For example, the kernel includes an alert generation module . The alert generation module  receives the physiological data and answers from the patient, and determines whether an alert should be generated. Examples of processes by which this initial assessment may be made are disclosed above, and are therefore not presently reiterated. If no alert is generated, no verification is needed, and the process may halt. On the other hand, if an alert is generated, then a verification process  is initiated. Such process may begin immediately after a single data element is input (such as a single answer or single physiological data element). Such a single element may begin the interactive assessment and verification process. Such an interactive process may also be used to provide immediate patient self-management feedback and recommendations. In other words, reception of a single answer or physiological parameter may constitute a sufficient basis upon which an assessment process may generate an alert. Accordingly, the verification process may commence after the reception of but a single answer or physiological parameter.","To effect verification , the original data set, which was the basis of the alert, may be received by a categorization module . The categorization module  assesses the original data, in order to classify the alert in one or more categories. A category is a broad articulation of why the alert was generated. For example, an alert may be classified as a \u201chigh weight\u201d alert, meaning that the alert was generated because the patient's weight exceeds some threshold. Thus, \u201chigh weight\u201d is an example of a category. Additionally, an alert may be classified \u201csymptom score\u201d alert, meaning that the patient's answers corresponded to a score exceeding a threshold. Examples of schemes for scoring of a patient's answers and for comparison of the score to a threshold are described previously herein, and are therefore not presently discussed further. Other examples of assessments, categories and alerts are known, and other examples may readily present themselves to those of skill in the art. Furthermore, other examples may be derived and presented in many forms, which may include but are not limited to statistically validated surveys such as the Kansas City Quality of Life, SF-12, SF-36, and others. Such assessments, categories, and alerts are within the scope of the present invention.","In the wake of having classified the alert as falling into one or more categories, recognizing that a single alert may comprise its own category, a data store  of rules is accessed. The data store  contains a set of rules corresponding to each category. A rule or rule set is retrieved for each category in which the alert was classified. For example, if the alert was categorized as falling within two categories (e.g., \u201chigh weight\u201d and \u201csymptom score\u201d), then two rule sets are retrieved (e.g., one rule set corresponding to \u201chigh weight\u201d and another rule set corresponding to \u201csymptom score\u201d). However, according to some embodiments, one or more rules or rules sets may be retrieved in the absence of having categorized the alert. In any event, thereafter, the rule set(s) are passed to a testing module . The testing module  tests the original data set against each rule within each retrieved rule set, and identifies which rules are \u201ctriggered.\u201d A rule is said to be \u201ctriggered\u201d if its assessment results in an affirmative result or a Boolean \u201c1\u201d.","A rule set is composed of various rules that the original data set, and\/or historical recordings of past original data sets, and\/or other data collected by the central computing system may be tested against to better understand the nature and\/or cause of the alert. Therefore, each triggered rule may correspond to a hypothesized nature or cause of the alert, which may, in turn, correspond to a line of questioning helpful in exploring the hypothesized nature or cause. For example, Table 6 (below) presents a rule set corresponding to a \u201chigh weight\u201d alert.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0171"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Rule Set: High Weight"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rule #1","Minimal Weight Gain & No Alert Over Past 20 Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #2","Minimal Weight Gain & Alert For Two Or More Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #3","Minimal Weight Gain & Positive Weight Trend"]},{"entry":["Rule #4","Minimal Weight Gain & Report Of Missed Medication"]},{"entry":["Rule #5","Minimal Weight Gain & Medication Side Effect"]},{"entry":["Rule #6","Minimal Weight Gain & Hospitalized in Past 14 Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #7","Moderate Weight Gain & No Alert Over Past 20 Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #8","Moderate Weight Gain & Alert For Two Or More Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #9","Moderate Weight Gain & Positive Weight Trend"]},{"entry":["Rule #10","Moderate Weight Gain & Report Of Salty Meal"]},{"entry":["Rule #11","Moderate Weight Gain & Report Of Missed Medication"]},{"entry":["Rule #12","Moderate Weight Gain & Medication Side Effect"]},{"entry":["Rule #13","Moderate Weight Gain & Hospitalized in Past 14 Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #14","Moderate Weight Gain & No Alert In Past 7 Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #15","Significant Weight Gain"]},{"entry":["Rule #16","Weight Gain For Two Or More Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #17","Minimal Weight Gain & Report Of New Or Increased"]},{"entry":[{},"Symptoms"]},{"entry":["Rule #18","Moderate Weight Gain & Report Of New Or Increased"]},{"entry":[{},"Symptoms"]},{"entry":["Rule #19","Moderate Weight Gain Exhibited Over A Single Day"]},{"entry":["Rule #20","Minimal Weight Gain Exhibited Over Past Two Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #21","Moderate Weight Gain Exhibited Over Past Two Or More"]},{"entry":[{},"Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #22","Minimal Weight Gain For One Day & No Symptoms"]},{"entry":["Rule #23","Minimal Weight Gain For One Day & Usual Symptoms"]},{"entry":[{},"Reported"]},{"entry":["Rule #24","High Trigger Weight Change Within Minimal Weight "]},{"entry":[{},"Range & Current Weight Is Less Than Last Reported Weight"]},{"entry":["Rule #25","Moderate Weight Gain Over High Weight Trigger & Weight"]},{"entry":[{},"Decreased From Previous Day & Usual Symptoms"]},{"entry":["Rule #26","High Trigger Weight Change Within Minimal Weight "]},{"entry":[{},"Range & Current Weight Is Less Than Last Reported "]},{"entry":[{},"Weight & Hospitalized For CHF Within Past 14 Days"]},{"entry":["Rule #27","Moderate Weight Gain Exhibited Over A Single Day &"]},{"entry":[{},"No Symptoms"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"As mentioned previously, the testing module  tests the original data set against each rule within each retrieved rule set, and identifies which rules are triggered. For each rule that is triggered, a question hierarchy is retrieved from a data store . Of course, although  depicts data stores  and  as being distinct from one another, the data stores  and  may be embodied as a single data store. A question hierarchy includes a set of questions. Each question has an answer that may be selected from a set of discrete answers (e.g., \u201ctrue-or-false,\u201d or \u201ca, b, c, or d\u201d). The question may be posed to the patient, who selects an answer from amongst the set of discrete answers. On the basis of the patient's answer, a subsequent question is posed, and\/or an instruction is given, and\/or a conclusion is reached, and\/or an action is carried out. The answer to the subsequent question, and\/or the outcome of the action undertaken determines the next question to be posed, and\/or instruction to give, and\/or conclusion to reach, and\/or action to undertake, and so on. Each question hierarchy is configured to explore the hypothesized nature or cause deduced from a given triggered rule. Examples of question hierarchies are presented with reference to  herein, and are therefore not presently discussed further. Of course, one skilled in the art of medical diagnosis may readily create question hierarchies directed to exploration of triggered rules, and such question hierarchies are within the scope of the present invention. After retrieval of the question hierarchies from the data store , some optional operations may be performed upon the hierarchies by an optional preparation module . For example, the preparation module  may inspect the retrieved question hierarchies for questions included in more than one such hierarchy. The preparation module may remove redundant questions, so that a given question is posed but a single time to the patient. Further, the preparation module  may examine the question hierarchy to determine if any of the questions therein have already been posed to the patient prior to the initial assessment process . If so, the answers thereto may be extracted from the original data set and inserted into an appropriate data space in the question hierarchy, so that the patient is not re-asked a question that he or she was asked by the monitoring device. Further, the preparation module  may determine that the question hierarchy requires modification based on the patients co-morbidities. Further, the preparation module  may examine prior questions posed to the patient and determine such new questions are inappropriate.","In the wake of operation of the optional preparation module , the question hierarchies are presented to the patient via a prompting module . According to one embodiment, the prompting module  may guide an operator through a series of questions, which the operator poses to the patient via the telephone. For example, a first question may be presented to the operator via an output device. The operator may pose the question to the patient, obtain the patient's answer, and enter the answer via an input device, thereby obtaining a second question (or instruction, etc).","Alternatively, all of the modules , , , , and  and data stores  and  may be programmed into a memory device in the patient monitoring apparatus. Alternatively, all of the modules , , , , and  and data stores  and  maybe programmed into an interactive television module or web interface. For example, the base receiver  of  may include memory devices storing the aforementioned modules, so that both the assessment process  and the verification process  are performed by the patient monitoring device.","Whether the modules are embodied in software\/firmware stored in the patient monitoring device, or whether they are stored in the remote computing system, the outcome of presentation of the question hierarchies to the patient may include a determination of whether or not the patient needs to consult with a health care professional or otherwise see or speak with a physician or nurse. Other outcomes are possible. For example, the verification process  may interact with software executed by the remote computing system. Such software is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/788,900, filed on Feb. 27, 2004 by Cosentino, and entitled \u201cSYSTEM FOR COLLECTION, MANIPULATION, AND ANALYSIS OF DATA FROM REMOTE HEALTH CARE DEVICES,\u201d which is hereby incorporated by reference. According to one embodiment, the software is configured to interact with the verification process , so as to automatically create a follow-up entry or an intervention entry, when appropriate. For example, if the question hierarchy arrives at a point whereby an instruction is given to the patient to increase his medication dosage, an intervention entry is automatically created reflecting this action. Similarly, if the question hierarchy arrives at a conclusion that a follow-up action must be taken in the future, a follow-up entry reflecting this conclusion may be automatically created.","According to one embodiment, the outcome of the verification process  or assessment process  may initiate a data communication (e.g., telephone call, page, short message service exchange, etc.) to medical office or call center. For example, traversal of a question hierarchy may lead to a conclusion that a nurse or other professional needs to be contacted, to schedule a medical appointment, for example, or for further assessment of the patient, or for other medical care plan management. At such a juncture, the patient monitoring apparatus automatically initiates a data transmission, telephone call, or other communication session to the appropriate network address, telephone number, or receiving location. For example, the data transmission may be carried out by a modem, telephone, cellular telephone, television, pager, hand-held wireless device, or other apparatus, that is integrated with, or otherwise in communication with, the patient monitoring device. An example of such a system is depicted in .  is a high-level depiction of a monitoring system employing the aforementioned embodiment. As can be seen from , the system comprises a patient monitoring apparatus , a central computer , and a computer system  located at an oversight association, such as an HMO. The central computer  is housed within a facility  that is located remote from the patient monitoring apparatus . For example, the patient monitoring apparatus  may be located in the home of an ambulatory patient , while the central computer  is located in a call center, disease management company or health care facility . The central computer may be coupled to a communication network  or , such as to the Internet, public switched telephone network, or other network.","As described previously, the patient monitoring apparatus  is composed of a central processor unit , which is in communication with an input device , an output device , and a memory device . The memory device  may have each of the modules and data stores described with reference to  stored therein. Additionally, the memory device  may have a telephone number or network address, etc. to contact in the event that a nurse follow-up telephone call or communication session is necessitated stored therein.","As discussed previously, the output device  may be used to prompt the patient  with questions regarding the patient's wellness and may also provide immediate feedback to the patient based on such answers. The output device  may consist of a visual display unit such as LCD, touch-screen or television that displays the questions in a language of the patient's  choosing. Alternatively, the output device  may consist of an audio output unit that vocalizes the questions and combined with an input device such as an interactive voice response system records such answers. In one embodiment, the audio output unit  may vocalize the questions in a language of the patient's  choosing. As yet another alternative, the input device  and output device  may be embodied jointly as an interactive voice response system. The patient monitoring apparatus  communicates with the central computer  via a network ; the patient monitoring apparatus  uses a communication device  to modulate\/demodulate a carrier signal for transmission via the network , while the central computer  uses a communication device  for the same purpose. Examples of suitable communication devices  and  include internal and external modems for transmission over a telephone network, network cards (such as an Ethernet card) for transmission over a local area network, a network card coupled to some form of modem (such as a DSL modem or a cable modem) for transmission over a wide area network (such as the Internet), or an RF transmitter for transmission to a wireless network. Of course, the oversight association's computer  may use a similar communication device  for the same purpose, as well. The patient monitoring device  may include a physiological parameter transducer (not depicted) in data communication with the processor . Alternatively, the patient monitoring device  may couple to an external physiological parameter transducer through an input\/output port, for example. Alternatively, the patient monitoring device may communicate via telemetry, RF transmission, or other wireless means with an implanted device such as a pacemaker, defibrillator or synchronization device as described above in the present document. For example, a portion or all of the physiological parameter data may be communicated to the patient monitoring device from an implantable medical device, such as a pacemaker, defibrillator, cardiac ^synchronization therapy (CRT) device, stimulator, etc. Additionally, the patient monitoring device  may exclude a physiological transducing unit altogether. If during traversal of the question hierarchies, it is determined that a data transmission should be initiated with a medical attendant (e.g., a nurse, physician, health care attendant, etc.), then the patient monitoring device  may initially transmit the data set operated upon by the verification process (or some subset thereof) to the central computer system  (this is an optional step).","Next, the patient monitoring device  may attempt to establish a two-way communication session with a nurse or other professional at the call center, clinic, etc. . The two-way communication session may occur as a computer-to-patient monitoring device session transacted through the network . Per such a scenario, the nurse or other professional could observe the data set initially transmitted to the central computer , and could then join the electronic two-way communication session to make further inquiry of the patient .","Alternatively, the patient monitoring apparatus may make use of another communication device , by which a communication session is initiated with another communication device  accessed by the professional at the call center . For example, the communication device  may be a telephone, a cellular telephone, a pager, a Blackberry\u00ae device, or other wireless communication device. The communication device  utilized by the patient monitoring device  may initiate a communication session with the professional's device , so that two-way communication may be established. Per this scenario, the data set operated upon by the verification process (or some subset thereof) may be transmitted from the patient monitoring device  to the professional's communication device . As an alternative, the central computing system  may communicate the information to the professional's communication device . In either event, at the time that the two-way communication session is initiated, the professional has access to the information, so that the professional has data that serves as the basis for further inquiry of the patient .","In the event that the communication device  is embodied as a telephony device, then the processor  may initiate a telephone call via a telephone unit  under the control of the processor . The telephone unit  may be instructed of the appropriate number to call by the processor , or may be preprogrammed to call a specific telephone number. Thus, immediately at the time the question hierarchy is interacting with the patient, a nurse may be called, thereby saving the nurse time and effort of having to initiate the telephone call. In the event that the communication device  is a telephone modem, the telephone unit  may be integrated as a part of the modem , with an external speaker and microphone coupled thereto for facilitation of conversation between the nurse and the patient. Alternatively, if embodied as a distinct device, the unit  may include a speaker and microphone suitable for enablement of \u201cspeaker phone\u201d communication. It is possible that, for one reason or another, the two-way communication session cannot be established (example: communication devices  and  are telephonic devices, and the call center's  telephone lines are busy). In such an instance, subsequent re-attempts to establish the communication session may be initiated by the patient monitoring apparatus . If, however, a threshold number of re-attempts (e.g., twelve re-attempts) prove fruitless, then a data transmission may be made to the computer system  at the oversight association. According to one embodiment, the patient monitoring device initiates the data transmission to the computer system , and transmits a data packet containing content sufficient to inform that oversight association's computer  that the patient  has not yet been contacted. According to one embodiment, the aforementioned data packet may have a unique code associated therewith. Thus, when a two-way communication session is finally established between the patient and the professional, a corresponding code may be transmitted from the professional's communication device  or computer system  to the oversight association's computer  to confirm that the patient  has been contacted.","When managing large patient populations, constant parameter adjustment is required. Such parameter adjustment for biometric measurements, symptom thresholds and other parameters requires a skilled resource and can be time intensive. The central computing system (such as computing system ) may be programmed to automatically readjust certain parameters from time to time. The graph depicted in  A presents a background for understanding this feature. A Cartesian plane is depicted in  A, with a measured or calculated variable presented along the y-axis, and successive measurements presented along the x-axis. The measured variable describes a quantifiable condition or state of the patient's body. For example, the measured variable may be weight, blood glucose, blood oxygen level, blood pressure, transthoracic impedance (examples of measured variables), or may be a score describing a patient's self-reported symptoms (an example of a calculated variable). Oftentimes, such scores are monitored as a part of the assessment process  (), as has been described above. An alert may be generated when the score exceeds a threshold (or falls beneath a threshold), when a score exhibits a sustained trend (e.g., weight increase exhibited over the span of at least N days), or when a score as measured or calculated on a given day differs from a score as measured or calculated on a previous day by more than a prescribed quantity, etc.","Notably, each of the aforementioned sorts of variable monitoring schemes shares a common premise, namely, that a change in the monitored variable's value corresponds to a change in the chronic condition being monitored. Sometimes, however, this premise is incorrect. For example, a patient's weight may vary because the patient is experiencing an acute episode of pulmonary edema, in which case the premise is correct\u2014the change in the patient's weight over time reveals a change in the state of the chronic condition. On the other hand, a patient's weight may vary over time because the patient has gained or lost fatty or muscular tissue. Per such a scenario, the change in the patient's weight is unrelated to the chronic condition being monitored.","As mentioned above, in some instances an alert may be generated in the event that the measured variable exceeds or falls short of a threshold. Such a strategy may prove unreliable in the situation where the monitored variable has exhibited change for reasons unrelated to the chronic condition being monitored. With respect to , one may assume, for the sake of illustration, that the measured variable is a patient's weight, and that each darkened dot on the Cartesian plane represents a given daily weight measurement for a particular patient. Thus, point  represents a particular patient's weight on a given day, and point  represents the patient's weight as measured on a successive day, and so on.","Examination of the graph of  reveals that on the day that the point  was measured, the patient's weight exceeded an upper limit threshold, meaning that the initial assessment process  () would have generated an alert or exception that day. In response thereto, a verification process  () would have been initiated, and for the sake of illustrating the foregoing concepts, one may assume that the verification would have turned out to be negative (i.e., an interview of the patient would reveal that the patient did not need medical attention). As shown in , a similar result would have occurred for fourteen consecutive days.","After two weeks of generating an alert, and thereby initiating a verification process, the software on the central computing system (or patient monitoring device, if implemented thereupon) may be programmed to re-establish a new threshold, as shown in . The premise for the re-establishment is that the patient has simply gained weight, and is not experiencing edema, so the upper limit should be modified.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0188","num":"0187"},"figref":["FIG. 35B","FIG. 32","FIG. 32","FIG. 35A","FIG. 35A"],"b":["3600","3906","3908","3602","390","3910","3912","3906","3908","3914","3916","3918","3920","3918","3905"]},"Additional details regarding the patient monitoring apparatus are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/345,956 entitled \u201cMultiuser wellness parameter monitoring system,\u201d which is hereby incorporated by reference.","Although the present disclosure and its advantages have been described in detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. Moreover, the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process, machine, manufacture, composition of matter, means, methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the present invention, disclosure, machines, manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps, presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present disclosure. Accordingly, the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes, machines, manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the disclosed system and methods, reference is now made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 35A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 35B","FIG. 35A"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
