---
title: Slider-hinge door
abstract: A mechanism is provided for connecting a door to a container. The door provides and restricts access to a chamber of the container in respective open and closed positions. The mechanism includes, at each corresponding lateral side of the container and the door, a rail mounted to the container, an elbow, and first and second linkage arms. The rail aligns along a fore-and-aft direction so that the elbow slides along that direction. The elbow has vertical and axial members. The axial member connects to the rail. The first linkage arm includes first, second and third joints that pivotably connect respectively to the vertical member, to the container, and to the door. The second linkage arm includes fourth and fifth joints that pivotably connect respectively to the door and to the container. The linkage arms are disposed to avoid lateral obstruction beyond the door in the open position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08245874&OS=08245874&RS=08245874
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08245874
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110512
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy, and thus, the invention herein may be manufactured, used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The invention is related to and incorporates by reference in its entirety an application for U.S. Patent titled \u201cAmmunition Stowage Magazine\u201d and assigned application Ser. No. 13\/068,909.","The invention relates generally to slider-hinge doors. In particular, this invention relates to door-hinge mechanisms that provide a workspace on the door in its opened position.","The United States Navy has commissioned two class prototypes for a Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) intended for close shore fire support. In particular, the lead ships for these classes are the steel planing monohull U.S.S. Freedom (LCS-1) designed by Lockheed Martin, and the aluminum trimaran U.S.S. Independence (LCS-2) designed by General Dynamics. Both classes can be reconfigured with interchangeable weapons modules for select plug-and-fight missions. Follow-on ships in the Freedom class include U.S.S. Fort Worth (LCS-3), U.S.S. Milwaukee (LCS-5) and U.S.S. Detroit (LCS-7). Follow-on ships in the Independence class include U.S.S. Coronado (LCS-4), U.S.S. Jackson (LCS-6) and U.S.S. Montgomery (LCS-8).","The Gun Mission Module (GMM) as an example for the surface warfare module package includes two turret-mounted, axis-stabilized chain guns that can fire up to 200 rounds per minute of 30\u00d7173 mm ammunition, and can hold 800 rounds. Uniformed Navy personnel operate in highly confined spaces, including below deck. The GMM chain gun protrudes above deck from a module cover, below which personnel can supply ammunition from storage containers. Conventionally, such containers are disposed in a location requiring such ammunition either to be linked together absent an adequate platform and\/or to be carried to the combat firing platform some significant distance from its stowage location.","Conventional doors for ammunition magazines yield disadvantages, such as lateral workspace obstruction, addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular, these embodiments provide a mechanism for connecting a door to a container. The door provides and restricts access to a chamber of the container in respective open and closed positions. The mechanism includes, at each corresponding lateral side of the container and the door, a rail mounted to the container, an elbow, and first and second linkage arms.","The rail aligns along a fore-and-aft direction so that the elbow slides along that direction. The elbow has vertical and axial members. The axial member connects to the rail. The first linkage arm includes first, second and third joints that pivotably connect respectively to the vertical member, to the container, and to the door. The second linkage arm includes fourth and fifth joints that pivotably connect respectively to the door and to the container. The linkage arms are disposed to avoid lateral obstruction beyond the door in the open position.","In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized, and logical, mechanical, and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["100","110","120","130","140","150","160","170","175","180","140","170","175","190"]},"The door  represents a front-load configuration that travels axially fore and aft. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that this movement can also apply to a top-load configuration for a door that travels vertically up and down. Depending on orientation, the terms \u201cfore\u201d and \u201caft\u201d can be interpreted as directions of door's motion for either opening configuration that are substantially parallel to the sides of the container .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B"],"b":["200","140","160","210","150","210","220","230","240","250","260","270","150","250","260","220","230","240","275","280","170","290","170","270","260","250","275","250","260"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"],"b":["300","310","320","150","330","100","320","340","350","360","370","320","240"]},"A typical 30 mm ammunition can  slides into one space  for stowage. For the container frame shown 320, the spaces  can hold a total of eight cans . Each can  holds two belts of fifteen linked 30 mm rounds and weighs about 80 pounds-mass. Alternate designs can provide for more or fewer ammunition containers of sundry dimensions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B","b":["400","410","420","150","320","330","430","170"]},"Typical dimensions for the magazine  include length (along the lateral direction ) of 44.0 inches, height (vertical direction ) of 37.0 inches and width (axial direction ) of 20.0 inches. The door  has corresponding length, width and thickness of 42.75 inches, 15.75 inches and \u215e inch with a weight of 44 pounds-mass. The door's steel panel surface incorporates a perpendicular mesh of steel strips for structural support of ammunition disposed thereon. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that these dimensions are exemplary only and not limiting.","A thermometer  above the upper container  monitors temperature of the magazine's environment within the spaces . A label plate  provides appropriate identification of the magazine  and its contents. The magazine  incorporates features suitable for both an ammunition magazine (e.g., provisions for accessible workspace, thermal insulation, ventilation, and a sprinkling system) and a storage locker (e.g., possession of minimal footprint, and securable access doors).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","420","170","150","510","520","530","540","520","550","530","540","380","170","560","570","420","420"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B","b":["600","610","210","520","600","420","610","320","250","620","250","170","275","230","220","240","170"]},"A detail features a dog bolt assembly  including a rotatable handle  that can pivots on a swing hinge  attached to either side of each container . With the door  closed, the handle  latches between the flanges  to preclude opening, being further secured by the security bar . Note that the handle  can rotate on either or both longitudinal and hinge axes for quick release or engagement. The dog-latch assembly  latches the flanges  on the door . The swing hinge  enables the handle  to be swung laterally away from the flanges  to release the door  for opening. The elbow bar  features an end cap . A grounding boss  provides an attachment to electrically ground each module . The eyelet  connects the inner lanyards  connected by the lanyard end retainers .","Conventional techniques for supporting a drop-door involve top surface hinges or cables as commonly used in hatches for ovens or troop trans-ports to augment hinges that may support the door as a resting surface. Other conventional techniques involve manually pulling out a slider to support the drop door. Typically, these flanking sliders and cables impede lateral access beyond the door's opened surface, thereby blocking transport of items, such as ammunition rounds.","In various exemplary embodiments, the door  attaches at the lower and upper button pins  respectively to the second hinge  and the first hinge , the latter demarcated as the joint . Both hinges  and  connect to the container  respectively at the upper and lower button pins  to form a four-bar linkage assembly on each of the port and starboard sides. The slide rail  attaches to the container , which houses the slider . The elbow bar  attaches to the slider .","The top of the first hinge  is equipped with a roller caster that rides inside a vertical slot of the elbow bar  forms a scotch yoke between the slide rail , the elbow bar  and the slider . The hinge-rail assembly  provides the advantages of providing a work surface that can be completely unobtrusive on both the top and at the port and starboard sides. The hinge-rail assembly  also enables the automatic reposition of the sliders  based purely on motion of the door , such as by a scotch yoke (for converting between circular and linear motions), without the use of cables or gears.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B","b":["700","710","420","170","380","530","540","280","170","220","720","420","720","730","740","170","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 9A and 9B"],"b":["800","420","420","810","820","830","730","380","310","900","910","920","930"]},"The GMM  includes a mid-foundation frame  and an upper mount frame  on which the turret  is disposed. The frames  and  are covered by a gun cover  connected to the hold  by a barbette . The mid frame  rests on a foundation frame . The storage frame  external to the mid frame , as demarcated by the cutout , contain magazines  on the foundation frame .","Various exemplary embodiments of the ammunition magazine  can be employed as an LCS Gun Mission Module (GMM) Ready Service Magazine  in compliance with NAVSEA OP-4. The nature of the modular weapon system, such as the GMM, poses unique requirements on the ammo storage area, which must satisfy many requirements of both a traditional Ready Service Magazine and a Ready Service Locker. The exemplary Ready Service Magazine  combines elements of both the magazine and locker to provide a a working space, similar to a traditional magazine, in the form of fold down doors for linking and de-linking ammo, while maintaining a locker sized footprint located in proximity to the weapon platform to be served.","Some missile storage rooms containing automatic handling equipment also serve as conventional primary magazines. Such a magazine constitutes actually a walk-in chamber with many requirements that are non-applicable for a modular weapon system including such features such as thermal insulation.","Conventional lockers are often provided for stowage of special types of ammunition and ammunition components such as detonators, pyrotechnics, and chemicals. These are frequently located on the weather deck to be conveniently accessible for the weapon to be served. White sunshields may be required when such lockers face exposure to external elements. Various requirements may be imposed depending on usage: NAVSEASYSCOM Drawing 804-1360106 for topside lockers attached to a deck or bulkhead, NAVSHIPS Drawing 804-6397302 for stowage of thermite grenades.","Lockers for pyrotechnic and incendiary ammunition, such as parachute flares and thermite grenades, include manual jettison capability in case of fire in the vicinity. Being located below the weather deck, the exemplary Ready Service Magazine  does not require the sunshield.","A positive locking device, such as the security bar  can be provided to prevent inadvertent actuation of any jettison mechanism installed in the magazine . The support arm for the armature components  enable avoidance of contact with intended contents when the doors  are closed.","The LCS GMM ready service magazine , divided into upper and lower sections with each containing four ammunition cans , can be operated as follows: An operator (e.g., sailor) unlocks the security bar  from the magazine . The operator opens the door  by grasping the handle  to pull forward. The operator unlatches the retaining lanyards  and\/or  for the compartment to be accessed. The operator pulls an ammunition can  forward onto the work surface  of the door . The operator pulls the ammunition can  and connects rounds  together by associated links  on the door's work surface . The magazine  has the advantage of providing an unobstructed working surface  and stowage spaces  in a small footprint necessary for a modular system.","While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein, many modifications, substitutions, changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and various other features and aspects of various exemplary embodiments will be readily understood with reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like or similar numbers are used throughout, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A and 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A and 9B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
