---
title: System and method for dynamically modifying content based on user expectations
abstract: Systems and methods for dynamically rendering content based on user expectations and user tolerance levels are disclosed. Content is delivered to a user in a way that maximizes user experience and minimizes frustration while accessing web content. Because every user's expectations and tolerance levels are different, embodiments of the invention exploit these two parameters to deliver optimized web content to users within an acceptable time frame, thus ensuring a better browsing experience. In one embodiment of the invention, the method includes intercepting at a computing device a request for content from a server, determining a quality of service value based on user expectations and a user tolerance level from the content and a user profile, and delivering a modified version of the content to the user based on the quality of service value. The system is a computing device programmed with instructions to accomplish these functional steps.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874687&OS=08874687&RS=08874687
owner: Infosys Technologies, Ltd.
number: 08874687
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20110902
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Filing No. 1217\/CHE\/2011, filed Apr. 7, 2011, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to content delivery, and in particular, systems and methods for modifying content to provide content in accordance with user expectations.","2. Copyright Notice","A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","3. Description of Related Art","In recent years, the Internet has developed universal appeal as a primary source of content for millions of individuals. Web pages exist for nearly every possible topic of interest, and can be used by individuals for everything from entertainment to education, information exchange to online dating, and everything in between. As a result of the ever-increasing number individuals turning to the Internet, users have to wait for a longer and longer duration for web content to load. This can be attributed to any of a variety of external factors, including available bandwidth, application used, server load, device capability, etc. Such delays lead to frustration and an overall poor user expensive while attempting to access web content.","Some websites have attempted to ease this frustration by offering multiple versions of their websites. The versions may range from plain text to fully interactive content, and anywhere in between. The version of the website is automatically selected for the user and displayed to the user requesting the website. The website version is selected based on a variety of factors, such as the type and specifications of the device being used to request the content, the types of software available on the device, and the speed of the network connection linking the device to the website.","A common example of these offerings are websites with versions made specifically for mobile devices, such as the m.google.com website. When accessed by a mobile device, users attempting to access www.google.com are automatically redirected to its mobile counterpart. These versions made specifically for mobile devices are often much simpler than their computer-user-directed counterparts, containing primarily text with few, if any, graphics, and very limited running scripts integrated into the website.","Despite their convenience, these conventional methods of modifying content only take into account static information gleaned from the user's mobile device, and do not consider factors specific to any individual. Thus, all users of a given device are clustered in one group and are delivered the same webpage.","This non-discriminatory grouping of conventional methods is extremely restricted, as it is based on the underlying assumption that all users of a given device are satisfied by simple, fast-loading web pages, which fail to address individual users' desires, preferences and expectations. Furthermore, the conventional systems do not consider situations in which users' expectations are not in line with the underlying assumptions. For example, a photographer may prefer that a requested website contain all available graphics regardless of the load time.","Thus, there is a need in the art for systems and methods for delivering content in a way that maximizes user experience and minimizes frustration while accessing web content. This invention meets those needs and others by providing systems and methods for dynamically rendering content based on user expectations and user tolerance levels. Because every user's expectations and tolerance levels are different, embodiments of the invention exploit these two parameters to deliver optimized web content to users within an acceptable time frame, thus ensuring a better browsing experience.","In one embodiment of the invention, the method includes intercepting at a computing device a request for content to be delivered from a server, determining a quality of service value based on user expectations and a user tolerance level from the content and a user profile, and delivering a modified version of the content to the user based on the quality of service value. The system is a computing device programmed with instructions to accomplish these functional steps.","Still other aspects, features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description, simply by illustrating a number of exemplary embodiments and implementations, including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present invention. The present invention also is capable of other and different embodiments, and its several details can be modified in various respects, all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly, the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive.","A system and method for dynamically modifying content based on user expectations is described. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments. It is apparent to one skilled in the art, however, that the present invention can be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In some instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiment.","Referring now to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views,  is a flowchart  illustrating a method for dynamically rendering content based on user expectations, according to one embodiment. At processing block , a request for content from a server is intercepted at a computing device. The computing device can be a third party device physically independent of both the requesting user and the server, or can be integrated into one, the other, or both of the devices. The computing device acts as a middleman, or \u201cmiddleware\u201d device, between the end user and the server, and intercepts requests between the two devices. The content can be any type of content available on the web including, but not limited to, web pages, forms, multimedia, streaming content, e-mails, games, and the like. The content requested from the server is referred to interchangeably herein as the \u201crequested content\u201d and the \u201coriginal content\u201d, for the sake of explanation and to avoid confusion.","A user profile is established for users requesting content from the server, and is maintained by the middleware device for an indefinite amount of time. User profile data can be comprised of static information, dynamic information, or both. Static information is generally obtained explicitly by requesting the information from the user, and includes demographic information, such as age, gender, and location of the user, as well as interest information, such as hobbies and premium subscriptions. Dynamic information is obtained implicitly by observing usage patterns, and comprises the user's time of use, duration of use, frequency of used, frequently (or infrequently) accessed services, feedback provided, and any survey data collected representing the user's opinions on various topics. User profile data can be obtained in various known ways, such as through user questionnaires or by monitoring user activity.","User expectations and a user tolerance level can be implied from the user profile and the type of content requested by the user. The user expectations define specifications for a modified version of the content to be presented to the user. In a first example, a user profile may show that a user has a paid premium subscription to a photo sharing website, and the content requested may be a streaming photo slideshow. In this example, user expectations for high quality images may be implied based on the user's interest in photography and his desire to view a slideshow.","The user tolerance level defines an accepted latency time for delivered content, and can also be implied from the user profile and type of requested content. In a second example, a user profile may show that the user has a high speed internet connection, and the content requested may be a text-only web page having only graphical advertisements. In this example, the user tolerance level would be very low, as a user of high speed internet would likely not expect to wait long for a simple page to load.","Based on the user profile and the type of content requested, the middleware device establishes a quality of service value that matches these user expectations and the user tolerance level at processing block . For ease of explanation and illustration, the quality of service values described herein are assigned on a scale from 0-10, 0 representing minimal user expectations and a low user tolerance level (i.e., short waiting time), and 10 representing maximum user expectations and a high user tolerance level (i.e., long waiting time). It is contemplated, however, that the quality of service value can be numerical, alphabetical, symbolic, or in any other form representative of differing levels of quality. Further, the quality of service value may involve any number of variables and\/or relations between data. For example, the quality of service value may be assigned inversely on a scale from 0-10, 0 representing minimal user expectations and a high tolerance level (i.e., long waiting time), and 10 representing maximum user expectations and a low tolerance level (i.e., short waiting time). Furthermore, quality of service values may be calculated according to a plurality of methods in a plurality of forms in order to compare results to confirm the accuracy of the value with respect to the user expectations and tolerance level.","In the first example described above, a quality of service value of 9 may be assigned to the user's request, and represent that the user is willing to wait longer in order to have his expectation of high quality images met. In the second example, a quality of service value of 1 may be assigned to that user's request, and represent that the user is not willing to wait for any significant amount of time for the content to load, because (a) he has high-speed internet, and (b) the primary content of the requested web page contains no graphics at all.","Based on this quality of service value, a modified version of the content is delivered to the user at processing block . Alternative to being a faster loading and\/or simplified version of the original content, as is described primarily herein, the modified version of the content may instead be a copy of the original content (such as may be the case in the first example above, where the user would likely rather wait longer for the high quality images contained in the original content than quickly receive modified content having lower resolution images); a lateral version of the content reflecting only nominal changes in content size, media, or structure (such as translated content or corrected content resolving typographical errors, grammatical errors, and\/or factual errors); or an enhanced version of the content having additional content not present in the original content (such as integrated content from multiple sources across one or more types of media, e.g., a children's game enhanced with word definitions, an encyclopedia article enhanced with pictures and video, etc.).","In one embodiment of processing block , the content is modified by the same server providing the content, and the modified content is delivered directly from the server to the user. For example, if the user's request is assigned a very low quality of service value, the middleware device may request the server to send a low resolution copy of the website directly to the user in order to expedite the delivery of the website. In this situation, the middleware device better meets this particular user's expectations and tolerance level by removing itself from the delivery process.","In another embodiment, the requested content is downloaded from the server to a cache at the middleware device, where it is modified based on the quality of service value before being delivered to the user. For example, if the user's request is assigned a quality of service value of 5, representing that the user wants a balance of quality and efficiency, the middleware device may download the requested content and modify it to medium resolution before delivering it to the user. Thus, the user has sacrificed only some quality, but gained a faster delivery time due to the smaller transmission size.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","210","260","250","270","210","220","230","240","210","270","210","210","240","260","270","270","260","270"]},"In use, when a user of one of the plurality of user systems  wants to view content from host server  according to his or her expectations and tolerance level, as described above, a request is for content from host server  is intercepted at interface module  of middleware server  over network . For example, a signal is transmitted from one of the user systems , the signal having a destination address (i.e., address representing the host server), a query (i.e., a request for content), and a return address (i.e., address representing the user system that initiated the query).","In one embodiment, interface module  intercepts the request and accesses host server  via network  to retrieve the requested content from host server . Memory  caches the retrieved content. Simultaneously or consecutively in any order, processor  determines a quality of service value based on user expectations and a user tolerance level from the content and a user profile, as described above. In one embodiment, the user profile has been previously created and stored, and can be retrieved from memory  and updated. In another embodiment, the user profile has not been previously created, previously stored, or both. In this case, the user profile may be created using static and\/or dynamic information, as described above. In either embodiment, processor  analyzes the user profile along with the retrieved content to determine a quality of service value indicative of the user's inferred expectations and tolerance level.","Interface module  delivers a modified version of the content to the requesting user. In this embodiment, the cached content in memory  is modified by processor  according to the quality of service value. The modified content is then delivered from interface module  to the user over network . For example, a reply signal may be transmitted to the user by interface module  that includes a destination address corresponding to the return address of the user system, and a modified version of the requested content responsive to the query, taking into account the quality of service value.","In another embodiment, middleware server  performs no modifications of the requested content; instead, interface module  formulates a request for modified content from host server  based on the calculated quality of service value. The request specifies that the modified content be delivered directly to the user. In other words, a signal is generated and transmitted from interface module , the signal having a destination address (i.e., address representing the host server), a query (i.e., a request for modified content), and a return address (i.e., address representing the user system).","If readily available from host server , the modified content is delivered directly from host server  to the user over network . For example, a reply signal may be transmitted to the user by host server  that includes a destination address corresponding to the return address of the user system, and a modified version of the requested content responsive to the query, taking into account the quality of service value.","If the modified content is not readily available from host server , host server  may modify the original content to meet the quality of service requirements specified by interface module 's request, and transmit the modified content to the user over network . In these embodiments, the original content is requested and accessed from host server  for analysis by processor  in conjunction with the user profile to determine the quality of service value prior to modification. However, it is not necessary in this embodiment that the originally requested content be stored in memory , as the modified content is produced at host server  and directly transmitted to the user.","Alternatively, host server  may return a failure message to interface module . In this embodiment, upon receipt of a failure message, interface module  requests the original version of the content from host server , if not previously requested; memory  caches the content, if not previously cached; and processor  modifies the cached content according to the quality of service value. The modified content is then delivered from interface module  to the user at one of the plurality of user systems  over network .","In yet another embodiment, host server  may have a modified version of the content only partially responsive to the quality of service requirements specified by interface module 's request (hereinafter referred to as \u201cpartially responsive content\u201d). In this situation, host server  may (a) modify the partially responsive content to fully meet the quality of service value, then transmit the modified content directly to the user, or (b) return a failure message.","In this embodiment, upon receipt of a failure message, interface module  may request the partially responsive content from host server , if not previously requested; cache the partially responsive content in memory , if not previously requested; and modify the cached partially responsive content in processor  according to the quality of service value. Thus, modified content fully compliant with the quality of service value is produced, and delivered to the user by interface module  over network .","Alternatively, upon receipt of a failure message, interface module  may request the original version of the content from host server , if not previously requested; cache the content in memory , if not previously cached; and modify the cached content according to the quality of service value. The modified content is then delivered from interface module  to the user at one of the plurality of user systems  over network .","In each of these embodiments, the original and\/or modified content, if stored, can be erased from memory  upon successful modification and delivery of the content to the user, or may be stored indefinitely for future use. Functions of each of the described and other embodiments can be described as modules of computer executable instructions recorded on tangible media. The modules can be segregated in various manners over various devices.","Turning now to , exemplary screen shot of content requested from a server by a user according to one embodiment. In this example, the requested content is a website for a consulting company, the website consisting of text, links, graphics, and photograph slideshow , totaling 680 kilobytes in size.","Using the requested content, described above, and a user profile of the user who requested the website, described below, the computing device infers user expectations and a user tolerance level. In this example, the user profile may indicate that the user is a middle-aged male lawyer from Washington, D.C., who primarily accesses the internet for business purposes. Further, the user profile may indicate that the user is requesting content on a Wednesday morning at 11:00 AM, from a computer connected to a high-speed internet source registered to a downtown Washington, D.C. law firm. The user profile may further indicate that the user visited several websites for other consulting companies within the 10 minutes prior to requesting content , and spent most of his time reading the \u201cNewsroom\u201d articles posted on those websites. He did not visit any other websites during that time period.","Based on the content requested and the user profile information, the system may infer user expectations for an informative website that can be easily and efficiently navigated for company news. The user tolerance level may be calculated as, for example, 2 seconds, indicating that the user finds it acceptable to wait for 2 seconds between the time he submits the request for content, and the time that requested or modified content is delivered.","A quality of service value is then determined and assigned based on the user expectations and user tolerance level. On a scale of 0 to 10, wherein 0 represents minimal user expectations and a low user tolerance level and 10 represents maximum user expectations and a higher user tolerance level, the system may assign the user a quality of service value of 5, indicating that the user has average expectations and\/or an average user tolerance level.","Based on this quality of service value, modified content of is delivered to the user. In this example, photograph slideshow is reduced in size with respect to original photograph slideshow , and reduces the page size to 310 kilobytes. This reduction allows the website to load more quickly by reducing a feature having a large file size that is of probable little importance to the user, without sacrificing the website's easy-to-navigate layout.","Alternatively, suppose, for example, that the user profile for the same user instead indicates that the user is requesting content from a mobile device connected to a slow-performing mobile network with spotty coverage in the Washington, D.C. area. All other information in the user profile remains the same. Based on the content requested and the user profile information, the system may infer user expectations for an informative website that can be easily and efficiently navigated on a mobile device for company news. The user tolerance level may still be calculated at 2 seconds, indicating that the user finds it acceptable to wait for 2 seconds between the time he submits the request for content on his mobile device, and the time that the requested or modified content is delivered to the mobile device.","On the scale of 0 to 10 discussed above, wherein 0 represents minimal user expectations and a low user tolerance level and 10 represents maximum user expectations and a higher user tolerance level, the system may now assign the user a quality of service value of 2, indicating that the user has lower than average expectations and\/or a lower than average user tolerance level. This indicates that the user wants the website to load fast and contain primarily only essential information.","Based on this quality of service value, modified content of is delivered to the user. In this example, photograph slideshow is removed entirely, reducing the page size to 80 kilobytes. This allows the website to load quickly on the user's mobile device by entirely removing a feature having a large file size that is of probable little importance to the user, without sacrificing the website's easy-to-navigate layout and efficient access to news items.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIGS. 3","i":["b ","c "],"b":"3"},"HTML construct content may alternatively or additionally be modified to comply with a quality of service value. For example, a table of data can be rendered record by record into a basic format. Optional fields can be removed from forms, or forms can be paginated. Normal text can be summarized or sampled. Further, formatting can be removed completely so that the page displays as plain text only.","These examples are for illustration only and are not intended to be an exhaustive list of possibilities. One skilled in the art will recognize that there are an innumerable number of methods for modifying content, not only to reduce overall file size and content features as described above, but also to enhance overall file size and content features.","As shown in , system architecture  for performing the method described above according to an embodiment includes web layer , cache , site application , application programming interface , and a plurality of data stores . It will be appreciated that the system architecture may vary from the illustrated architecture. For example, web layer  may directly access data stores , the site application may directly access data stores , system architecture  may not include cache , etc., as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. Web layer  is configured to intercept a request for content from a server through a web browser, and deliver a modified version of the content reflecting an expected quality of service. Web layer  communicates the user request to cache . Cache  is configured to temporarily store requested content, modified content, and\/or user profiles that are accessed frequently by web layer  and can be rapidly accessed by web layer . In one embodiment, cache  may be a caching proxy server. Cache  communicates the user requests to site application .","Site application  is configured to update cache  and to process user requests for content received from web layer . Site application  may analyze the requested content and the user profile to draw conclusions about the user's expectations and the user tolerance level, and to calculate a quality of service value based on these conclusions. Site application  can then convert the request for content into a request for modification of the requested content and transmit this request to application programming interface . Application programming interface  is configured to access data from the plurality of data stores  to collect the requested content responsive to the plurality of requests from site application . The plurality of data stores  may include, for example, web pages, multimedia, and the like. It will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments only one data store  may be provided to store the data.","The data in data stores  is provided to application programming interface , which provides the content to site application . Site application  updates cache  with the requested content, modifies the content based on the quality of service value, and delivers the modified content to web layer , which delivers browsable content to the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"800"},"Computer system  includes processor  (e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU) or both), main memory  (e.g., read only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM (RDRAM), etc.) and static memory  (e.g., flash memory, static random access memory (SRAM), etc.), which communicate with each other via bus .","Computer system  may further include video display unit  (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)). Computer system  also includes alphanumeric input device  (e.g., a keyboard), cursor control device  (e.g., a mouse), disk drive unit , signal generation device  (e.g., a speaker), and network interface device .","Disk drive unit  includes computer-readable medium  on which is stored one or more sets of instructions (e.g., software ) embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. Software  may also reside, completely or at least partially, within main memory  and\/or within processor  during execution thereof by computer system , main memory  and processor  also constituting computer-readable media. Software  may further be transmitted or received over network  via network interface device .","While computer-readable medium  is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium, the term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and\/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, and optical and magnetic media.","It should be understood that processes and techniques described herein are not inherently related to any particular apparatus and may be implemented by any suitable combination of components. Further, various types of general purpose devices may be used in accordance with the teachings described herein. It may also prove advantageous to construct specialized apparatus to perform the method steps described herein. The present invention has been described in relation to particular examples, which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different combinations of hardware, software, and firmware will be suitable for practicing the present invention.","Other implementations of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. Various aspects and\/or components of the described embodiments may be used singly or in any combination. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims."],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be understood more fully from the detailed description given below and from the accompanying drawings of various embodiments of the invention, which, however, should not be taken to limit the invention to the specific embodiments, but are for explanation and understanding only.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["b ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["c ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
