---
title: Multifactor authentication service
abstract: A multifactor authentication (MFA) enforcement server provides multifactor authentication services to users and existing services. During registration, the MFA enforcement server changes a user's password on an existing service to a password unknown to the user. During normal usage when the user accesses the existing service through the MFA enforcement server, the MFA enforcement server enforces a multifactor authentication enforcement policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745709&OS=08745709&RS=08745709
owner: Tyfone, Inc.
number: 08745709
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110228
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to authentication, and more specifically to multifactor authentication.","Computer systems typically \u201cauthenticate\u201d users prior to allowing access. For example, a desktop computer may authenticate a user with a username and password. When the user provides the correct username and password, the user is \u201cauthenticated\u201d and is allowed access to computer resources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["120","110","110","120","110","120","120","120"]},"In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that show, by way of illustration, various embodiments of an invention. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. It is to be understood that the various embodiments of the invention, although different, are not necessarily mutually exclusive. For example, a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with one embodiment may be implemented within other embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition, it is to be understood that the location or arrangement of individual elements within each disclosed embodiment may be modified without departing from the scope of the invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims, appropriately interpreted, along with the full range of equivalents to which the claims are entitled. In the drawings, like numerals refer to the same or similar functionality throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["120","210","212","220","220","120","210","210","120"]},"In operation, a user registers with MFA enforcement server  to define the MFA policy to be applied in the future. The MFA policy may include enforcement of any number or type of authentication factors (e.g., challenge questions, physical presence of token, out-of-band factors such as SMS or return phone call, etc.). In addition, the MFA policy may map different levels of authentication to different levels of content access through content filtering. For example, if a user can satisfy a subset of the authentication factors, then the MFA policy may allow authentication of the user while restricting access to some content. In this manner, MFA enforcement server  may act as both a content intermediary as well as an authentication intermediary between existing service  and client device .","After registration is complete, the user logs in to the existing service  through MFA enforcement server . During the login process, MFA enforcement server  enforces one or more MFA policies defined during registration. For example, if an MFA policy includes checking for the presence of a physical token, then MFA enforcement server may detect the presence of optional token  prior to allowing authentication. If the MFA policy is satisfied, then MFA enforcement server  logs in to existing service  on behalf of the user. In some embodiments, MFA enforcement server  also filters content (unidirectionally or bidirectionally) according to the MFA policy in effect.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":"220"},"In the example shown in , the user registers for MFA enforcement services at netpeoplesite.com by visiting mfaenforce.com\/netpeoplesite. One skilled in the art will understand that any domain relationship may be implemented to allow the user to access MFA enforcement server . The mfaenforce.com domain is used simply as an example.","The user provides credentials (e.g., username and password) for netpeoplesite.com to MFA enforcement server  at . The user-provided credentials may include any number or type of credentials recognized by netpeoplesite.com. For example, the credentials may include challenge questions and answers, or any other user-related information known by netpeoplesite.com. MFA enforcement server  then queries netpeoplesite.com at  to determine if the user-provided credentials correspond to a valid user at netpeoplesite.com. This may be accomplished by logging in to netpeoplesite.com using the user-provided credentials, accessing an application programming interface (API) for netpeoplesite.com, or the like.","At , MFA enforcement server  asks the user for a new password that the user will provide in the future when authenticating to existing service  with MFA enforcement server  as an authentication intermediary. This password is referred to herein as \u201cthe password known to the user.\u201d At , the user provides a new password, shown as \u201corange1\u201d in the example of . After , the user has changed the known password from \u201capple1\u201d to \u201corange1\u201d. In some embodiments, the  and  are omitted, and the user maintains the same known password.","At , MFA enforcement server  changes the password used to log in to existing service  to a value unknown to the user. This password is referred to herein as \u201cthe password unknown to the user.\u201d In the example of , MFA enforcement server  changes the user's password at existing service  to \u201c1superlongpw^25\u201d. The password unknown to the user may be set to any value of any length. In some embodiments, the password unknown to the user is randomly generated.","At , MFA enforcement server  gathers additional registration information from the user. The additional registration information may include any amount or type of information. For example, any necessary account data or metadata may be collected at this time, including data identifying the user, billing data, MFA policy definition data, etc. In some embodiments, the additional registration information includes MFA policy definitions for multiple existing services or multiple users. For example, the registration may be for an administrator account that defines one or more MFA policies for multiple users and\/or multiple existing services.","In some embodiments, MFA enforcement server  automatically seeks the presence of one or more multifactor tokens. For example, MFA enforcement server  may detect the presence of token . Example embodiments of token  include a secure element (e.g., smartcard chip) embedded in a phone or a microSD card with a secure element. The microSD card may be in a phone, in the USB slot of a PC, or any other client device. In some embodiments, the secure element may be running identification services or applets. When the presence of a token is detected, MFA enforcement server  may record the identity of the token to be included in an MFA policy.","MFA policy definition data collected by MFA enforcement server  may also include out-of-band authentication process definitions such as a voice call to enter PIN or SMS with one time number. Any additional multifactor authentication data may be collected at this time.","At the completion of the registration process, MFA enforcement server  is established as an authentication intermediary between the user operating client device  and existing service . The user no longer knows the proper credentials to directly login to existing service .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["220","442","444","446","448","220","442","444","448","446","446","440"]},"Registration component  is accessed when a user registers for the MFA service (see ). Registration information collected by registration component  is stored in data store . For example, as shown in , registration information collected and stored may include user registration information and one or more MFA policies.","MFA enforcement component  functions as an authentication intermediary between a user operating client device  and existing service . When a registered user wishes to authenticate to a service on existing service , the user provides login credentials to MFA enforcement server  at . In some embodiments, the login credentials provided to MFA enforcement server  include the password known to the user. In the example of , the credentials include the user's username \u201cSteve\u201d and the password known to the user \u201corange1\u201d established as described with reference to .","If the user's credentials sent at  correspond to a registered user, MFA enforcement component  performs multifactor enforcement at . MFA enforcement at  is performed in accordance with one or more MFA policies stored at data store . For example, if during registration, the user specified that a the physical presence of a token is a factor, then MFA enforcement component  will query client device  to detect the presence or non-presence of token . Further, if an MFA policy specifies an out-of-band communication as a factor, then MFA enforcement component  will perform any out-of-band action identified in the MFA policy (e.g., SMS or phone call).","As described above, the MFA policy being enforced may include any number or type of factors. During operation, a user may satisfy all, less than all, or none of the factors specified in the MFA policy beyond the credentials initially provided at . Based on the MFA policy and level of user compliance with the MFA enforcement at , MFA enforcement component  will login to existing service  using the credentials established as described above with reference to . In the example of , these credentials include the user's username \u201cSteve\u201d, and the password unknown to the user \u201c1superlongpw^25\u201d. When the proper credentials are provided at , the existing service authenticates MFA enforcement server  as the user.","Content filter  filters content () to and from client device , and also filters content () to and from existing service . The filter rules employed are specified in the MFA policy in effect and may vary based on the level of multifactor authentication satisfaction. For example, an MFA policy may specify that if a user provides correct credentials  but fails to provide any further authentication, then read only access may be provided. In this case, content filter  allows client device to read but not change content at existing service . Also for example, an MFA policy may specify that if a user provides correct credentials  but fails to provide any further authentication, then some content on existing service is to be blocked completely. In this case, content filter  allows client device to read some but not content at existing service .","In some embodiments, content filter  may block content and in other embodiments, content filter  may substitute content based on the MFA policy in effect and the MFA level satisfied by the user. In some embodiments, content filter  is omitted, and MFA enforcement server does not function as a content intermediary.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":"446"},"As shown in , the user information may include account information such as contact and billing information. The user information may also include a token identity, challenge questions, or any other authentication factors corresponding to the user. The user information also includes data specific to applications that are registered. In the example of , the user is registered for two applications, shown as \u201cnetpeoplesite.com\u201d and \u201cbankingdebitcredit.com\u201d. The domain \u201cbankingdebitcredit.com\u201d is a fictitious name used herein to represent a banking website. One skilled in the art will understand that any number or type of services may be registered in the manner shown for netpeoplesite.com and bankingdebitcredit.com.","For each registered application, the user information includes usernames, passwords (both known and unknown to the user), and MFA policies. Other information may also be stored; the example shown in  is intentionally kept brief for simplicity of explanation.","MFA policy definition data may include, for example, records that define multiple possible MFA factors, levels, and content filtering rules. For example, as shown in , different MFA levels may be defined based on which factors are satisfied by the user. These levels may or may not be hierarchical. Some embodiments include user defined content filter rules (not shown) that are enforced based on the MFA level satisfied during authentication.","MFA policies may also identify restrictions on future access based on the MFA level satisfied during authentication. For example, a user may be restricted access to N number of authentications without validation of a multifactor token. After N authentications, the user may be denied access and\/or a master account holder may be informed of such a violation. The master account holder may be able to reset or change the restrictions of the sub-account holders.","MFA policies may also require periodic password changes. For example, the password unknown to the user may be changed periodically without the user's knowledge. Further, the password known to the user may be changed periodically by the user in accordance with an MFA policy.","One skilled in the art will understand that MFA policies are not limited to the data shown in . Any number or type of authentication factors may be utilized, any number of MFA levels may be defined, and any type or amount of content filter may also be defined, without departing from the scope of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"]},"In the specific example of , a user accesses MFA enforcement server  at mfaenfserver.com\/username, where \u201cmfaenfserver.com\u201d is a fictitious domain used herein to refer to MFA enforcement server , and \u201cusername\u201d is a username uniquely pairing the user and MFA enforcement server . If, at , the user satisfies MFA according to a defined policy, MFA enforcement server authenticates the user to multiple applications , , , also according to a defined MFA policy.","In some embodiments, the multiple applications , , and  correspond to resources on the same existing service. For example, in a corporate environment, applications , , and  may correspond to different application on a corporate network (e.g., email, calendaring, document sharing, remote desktop, etc.). When the user authenticates to MFA enforcement server , then MFA enforcement server  in turn authenticates to the applications on the corporate network on behalf of the user. Content filtering for each application may then take place based on MFA level as described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["212","212","212","212"]},"Smartcard chip  is capable of secure communications. When queried, smartcard chip  can provide secure identity information useful for authentication purposes. For example, referring back to , smartcard chip  within token  can communicate securely with MFA enforcement server  during registration as well as during MFA enforcement.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIGS. 8 and 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["810","212","810","212","810","212","810"]},"When token  takes on a memory card form factor as shown in , the token may be available or unavailable as an authentication factor at the wish of the user. For example, a user may have an MFA policy defined that allows a restricted but sufficient level of content access when token  is not present. The user may wish to intentionally omit token  from client device  when full access is not required or desired (e.g., when travelling) to decrease the chance of a data breach in the event client device  is lost or stolen. Further, when token  is in a portable format such as a memory card, a user may carry the memory card and insert it as necessary into different client devices, depending on the client device available and the level of authentication and content access desired.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["910","212","910","212","212","212","910"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["210","220","120","210","220","1010","220","120","1020"]},"Networks  and  may include the internet, although this is not a limitation of the present invention. For example, in some embodiments, network  may include the internet, and network  may include a corporate network or a network separated from the internet by a firewall. In these embodiments, an entity that controls existing service  may deploy MFA enforcement server  to enforce multifactor authentication without being forced to alter the native authentication mechanism of existing service .","Also in some embodiments, both networks  and  include elements of the internet. In these embodiments, an entity separate from both the user and the existing service  may provide MFA enforcement services. This is consistent with the example domain \u201cmfaenforce.com\u201d as described above.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["220","120","120","120","220","120"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["220","210","220","210","220","212","212","210","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 4"],"b":["1300","1310","1320","1300","1300","212","1310","1320","1310","1320","1310","442","444","448"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIGS. 14 and 15","FIG. 2","FIGS. 10-12"],"b":["1400","1500","220","1400","1500"]},"Referring now to , login credentials for a service are received from a user. The service corresponds to any of the existing services described herein. For example, the login credentials may include a username and password for a social networking site, a banking site, a corporate network, or any other service requiring authentication. At , the service is accessed and the password is changed to a value unknown to the user. In the example of , the password unknown to the user corresponds to \u201c1superlongpw^25\u201d. At the completion of , and , the user no longer has the knowledge (new password) needed to directly login into the service.","At , an MFA policy is enforced when the user accesses the service. In some embodiments, the MFA policy was defined when the user registered for the service. The MFA policy may require that any number or type of authentication factor be satisfied, and may also device MFA levels based on how many factors can be satisfied. For example, in some embodiments, the MFA policy requires that the physical presence of a token be verified. In some embodiments, the presence of the token can be verified by communicating with a secure element within the token. The token may take on any form factor, including an embedded secure element in a phone or computer, a secure element in a memory card, or the like. In some embodiments, the token takes on the form factor of a microSD memory card.","Depending on the outcome of multifactor authentication, the MFA enforcement server logs in to the existing service on behalf of the user, and may also filter content.","Referring now to , at , a username and password are received from a user. At , the presence of a token associated with the user is verified. At , the MFA enforcement server logs in to the existing service using the username provided and a password unknown to the user.","Although the present invention has been described in conjunction with certain embodiments, it is to be understood that modifications and variations may be resorted to without departing from the scope of the invention as those skilled in the art readily understand. Such modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of the invention and the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 8 and 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 14 and 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
