---
title: Method and apparatus for redirecting an IPTV device
abstract: A system and method for receiving user authentication information from a secondary device and sending a list of IPTV devices associated with the user authentication information to the secondary device. IPTV device selection is received from the secondary device and device identification information corresponding to a selected IPTV device is sent to the secondary device. A content selection from an asset list is received at a server and post execution instructions for the selected IPTV device are generated. Next asset information is sent to the selected IPTV device. The asset information includes content associated with the content selection and the post execution instructions. The post execution instructions determine further IPTV device functionality.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215481&OS=09215481&RS=09215481
owner: SONY NETWORK ENTERTAINMENT INTERNATIONAL LLC
number: 09215481
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111215
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CLAIM TO PRIORITY","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of previously filed provisional application Ser. No. 61\/443,440, filed on Feb. 16, 2011, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to a system and method of controlling one device capable of accessing Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) using a second device and more specifically to redirecting an IPTV device after content playback.","2. Background Discussion","IPTV is capable of receiving services delivered using the architecture and networking methods of the Internet Protocol Suite as well as services delivered using a broadcasting network. IPTV services include, for example, live television, time-shifted programming, video on demand (VOD), and on-line transactions.","One embodiment of the present invention is directed to a system and method of redirecting an IPTV device after content playback. The redirect can be specified by a service provider, an advertising server, or a user's input.","Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to using the redirect function to provide promotional material, additional information, recommended content, product offerings, merchandise sales and other material and\/or articles available for sale.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a computer program that when executed on a computer, such as a server, performs processing. The server program includes receiving user authentication information from a secondary device and sending a list of IPTV devices associated with the user authentication information to the secondary device. IPTV device selection is received from the secondary device and device identification information corresponding to a selected IPTV device is sent to the secondary device. A content selection from an asset list is received at a server and post execution instructions for the selected IPTV device are generated. Next asset information is sent to the selected IPTV device. The asset information includes content associated with the content selection and the post execution instructions. The post execution instructions determine further IPTV device functionality.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the server program described above, wherein the post execution instructions instruct the selected IPTV device to: request an asset list from a server; receive the asset list from the server; and display the asset list on the selected IPTV device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the server program described above, wherein the post execution instructions instruct the selected IPTV device to: request asset information; receive the asset information; and display the asset information on the selected IPTV device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the server program described above, wherein the post execution instructions instruct the selected IPTV device to: request an asset list or asset information; and receive a form, that the selected IPTV device displays.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method, implemented using an IPTV device that includes requesting asset information from a service provider and receiving asset information from the service provider. The asset information from the service provider comprises content information and one or more post execution instructions. An instruction to display the content information is executed and then post execution instructions are executed (following execution of the command to display content information).","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the method implemented using an IPTV device that also includes requesting service information from a server and receiving service information, a post playback permission and a post playback instruction from the server. After execution of the content information, sending the post execution instruction to the server and receiving content related to the post execution instruction from the server. The post execution instruction is executed and the content related to the post execution instruction is available for execution.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the method implemented using an IPTV device that also includes determining, after executing content information, whether the asset information comprises one or more post execution instructions.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the method implemented using an IPTV device in which the post execution instructions instruct an IPTV device to: request an asset list from a server; receive the asset list from the server; and display asset list on the IPTV device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the method implemented using an IPTV device in which the post execution instructions instruct an IPTV device to: request asset information; receive the asset information; and display the asset information.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the method implemented using an IPTV device in which the post execution instructions instruct an IPTV device to: request an asset list or asset information; receive a form; and display the form.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method of executing playback of content that includes transmitting authentication information to a server, from a secondary device and receiving a list of available IPTV devices, at the secondary device, from the server. Identification of a selected IPTV device is transmitted from the secondary device and a content list associated with the selected IPTV device is received at the secondary device. Next the content list may be browsed and content for playback may be selected. The server transmits to the selected IPTV device: the selected content; and post execution instructions. The post execution instructions determine post content playback functionality of the selected IPTV device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method of executing playback of content, described above, wherein the post execution instructions instruct the selected IPTV device to: request an asset list from a server; receive the asset list from the server; and display asset list on the selected IPTV device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method of executing playback of content, described above, wherein the post execution instructions instruct the selected IPTV device to: request asset information; receive the asset information; and display the asset information on the selected IPTV device.","Yet another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method of executing playback of content, described above, wherein the post execution instructions instruct the selected IPTV device to: request an asset list or asset information; receive a form, such that the selected IPTV device displays the form.","Other embodiments of the present invention include the methods described above but implemented using apparatus or programmed as computer code to be executed by one or more processors operating in conjunction with one or more electronic storage media.","It is noted that in this disclosure and particularly in the claims and\/or paragraphs, terms such as \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprised,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d and the like can have the meaning attributed to it in U.S. patent law; that is, they can mean \u201cincludes,\u201d \u201cincluded,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d \u201cincluding, but not limited to\u201d and the like, and allow for elements not explicitly recited. Terms such as \u201cconsisting essentially of\u201d and \u201cconsists essentially of\u201d have the meaning ascribed to them in U.S. patent law; that is, they allow for elements not explicitly recited, but exclude elements that are found in the prior art or that affect a basic or novel characteristic of the invention. These and other embodiments are disclosed or are apparent from and encompassed by, the following description. As used in this application, the terms \u201ccomponent\u201d and \u201csystem\u201d are intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware, a combination of hardware and software, software, or software in execution. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program, and\/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","Furthermore, the detailed description describes various embodiments of the present invention for illustration purposes and embodiments of the present invention include the methods described and may be implemented using one or more apparatus, such as processing apparatus coupled to electronic media. Embodiments of the present invention may be stored on an electronic media (electronic memory, RAM, ROM, EEPROM) or programmed as computer code (e.g., source code, object code or any suitable programming language) to be executed by one or more processors operating in conjunction with one or more electronic storage media.","Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using one or more processing devices, or processing facilities, or processing modules. The processing devices, processing facilities, or modules, may be coupled such that portions of the processing and\/or data manipulation may be performed at one or more processing devices, facilities or modules, and shared or transmitted between a plurality of processing devices, facilities or modules.","An IPTV device may be used to control home appliances through IPTV. These home appliances include, for example, video players, game players, home theater systems, digital video recorders, air conditioners, and etc. Household electrical appliances and audio-visual apparatuses, such as video cassette recorders (VCRs), televisions, air conditioners, and lighting apparatuses, may be furnished with remote controls. These remote controls each have operation units and functions specific to each apparatus. In order to control home appliances, a dedicated remote control may be placed in a vicinity of an associated home appliance. IPTV provides the ability to integrate different functions or different applications into a single control device to control multiple appliances. This single control device may be a smart phone, a digital personal assistant, a personal computer, lap top computer, tablet, or other device with adequate processing and\/or storage capabilities. The single control device may transmit control signals through a public network or Internet or other network of operatively coupled computers, or processing devices or modules to an IPTV device, which uses the control command to control home appliances.","An IPTV device can access a vast pool of contents provided by numerous content providers. The IPTV device may also be used to control further distribution of content that has been provided by a third party to the IPTV device so that unauthorized access is prevented. Typically, IPTV is controlled by a single input device and has a single display device. As a shared device that is viewed by several users it is helpful to permit this sharing without excessively raising hardware costs.","Accordingly, a method is provided to enable a user browsing content on a second device to have their selection played by a first device. The user can then continue to browse the content on any number of second devices without interrupting the content that is playing on the first device. The first device may be an IPTV. The second device may be another electronic device. The method include an architecture design and implementation that allows a user to navigate, browse, and search content on a second device that may be a consumer electronic device such as a Sony Ericsson\u00ae smart phone, VAIO\u00ae PC, VAIO\u00ae laptop, MYLO\u00ae, personal computer, or other apparatus with sufficient processing and storage capability, or any device with a web browser. Concurrently, while a user is using the first device, another user can perform these activities on the second device and send a media selection to the first device of the user's choice for playback","A second device may act as a visual aid to the IPTV, but does not require additional investments by the user because it makes use of a device (such as a cellphone, laptop, etc) which most users would typically already have in their possession. The second device executes a program that allows the second device to act as the visual aid. It is a low cost solution which opens up a huge window of business and technical opportunities. It is a favorable complement to the IPTV because the device has strengths in data entry, processing power and user experience in content management. Thus, users will be able to use their personal devices, such as a cellphone, to browse content in their own language, perform data entry, search for content, manage their content, perform transactions and personalize their experience without disturbing the big screen of a first device. Users only send the content for playback on the IPTV when they are ready to watch it; and playback of proprietary content does not occur on the non-authentic device so security risks are minimized. The program may be written in HTML, which can be loaded by any device with a browser, hence not limited to only a small set of compatible devices.","An IPTV system typically includes an IPTV device and including an IPTV client processor controlling a video display to present content thereon. The system also includes a second device including a control processor and a management server communicating with the IPTV client over the Internet. The management server and IPTV client communicate with at least one content server such that the content server provides audio video content to the IPTV client for presentation of the content on the video display of the IPTV client. The system further includes a proxy server communicating with the management server and the second device. The IPTV client sends login information to the management server which returns to the IPTV client an IPTV session token that may subsequently be presented by the IPTV client to a content server to obtain content from the content server. The management server receives and stores a local IP address of the IPTV client. Responsive to the second device sending a request to the proxy server for an executable utility, the proxy server returns the utility to the second device. Further, the second device, executing the utility, prompts a user to input to the second device login information. The proxy server, responsive to reception of correct login information from the second device, returns the local IP address of the IPTV client to the second device. The second device uses the local IPTV address to access the IPTV client directly to request information about the IPTV client, which information is returned from the IPTV client to the second device such that the local address of the IPTV client need not be globally addressable. Also the second device sends the information about the IPTV client to the proxy server, requesting a list of services available to the IPTV client from one or more content servers. The proxy server relays the request for a list of services to the management server, which returns the list to the proxy server, with the proxy server in turn sending the list to the second device for presentation of information on the video display. Responsive to a user selection of an element on the list, the second device sends a request for a software asset corresponding to the element to the proxy server. The proxy server requests a service login of the content server providing the asset, and the content server provides to the proxy server a list of assets or categories or services which relays the list to the second device, which is presented on the video display of the second device so that the user can navigate to enter a selection. Responsive to the selection the second device sends a command to the IPTV client to play the selection.","Embodiments include, for example, that the IPTV client requests the management server to provide information about the selection received from the second device. The information is returned from the management server to the IPTV client to enable the IPTV client to play content associated therewith. If desired, the proxy server can request of the content server a list of options, and the list is returned to the proxy server. Asset information may be requested by the IPTV client and returned thereto by the content server. Also, a service login received from the second device may be sent by the IPTV client to the content server and a service token returned to the IPTV client in response. When a list of contents is sent to the second device, URL of contents may be removed from the list. The second device requests a content using a unique identifier of the content, the proxy server or the management server may use the unique identifier of the content to locate a corresponding URL of the content. In this way, the second device may not obtain the URL of a content so that unauthorized distributions of content are effectively prevented.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, a consumer electronics device (CE) may act as a second device, which includes a housing holding a display, a network interface, and a processor controlling the display and communicating with the Internet through the network interface. An input device communicates with the processor. The processor executing logic includes sending login information to a proxy server, and receiving from the proxy server, responsive to reception thereby of correct login information, a local IP address of an IPTV client. The processor uses the local IPTV address to access the IPTV client directly to request information about the IPTV client, sending the information about the IPTV client to the proxy server. Responsive to sending the information about the IPTV client to the proxy server, the processor receives content information, presenting it on the display from which a user can select a selected content. The processor commands the IPTV client to play the selected content.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, a proxy server assembly includes at least one processor and at least one network interface communicating with the processor to establish communication between the processor and a wide area network.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, at least one computer readable storage medium is accessible to the processor and bears logic causing the processor to receive login information from a second device. Responsive to a determination that the login information is correct, the server sends to the second device a local IP address of an IPTV client associated with the login information. The server receives from the second device information about the IPTV client requesting a list of services available to the IPTV client from at least one content server and sends a request for the list of services to a management server. The proxy server receives from the management server the list and sends it to the second device for presentation of information on a video display thereof. The proxy server then receives from the second device a request for a software asset and responsive to the request for the software asset, requests a service login of the content server. The proxy server receives back from the content server a list of assets or categories or services and sends the list to the second device. In this way, the list can be presented on a video display of the second device so that a user can navigate to enter a selection to command the IPTV client to play the selection.","According to an embodiment of the present invention, a first device is connected with a plurality of electronic devices. A second device may transmit control commands to the first device using a communication network or internet to control the plurality of electronic devices.","Referring to , an IPTV system may include a first device such as a client consumer electronics device , a second device such as another consumer electronics device , an electronic device  connected with the first device, a management server , a proxy server , and a content server . Each of the above devices and servers may have one or both a wired communication interface and a wireless communication interface.","The client consumer electronics device (CE)  such as a TV, game player, video disk player, camera, digital clock radio, mobile telephone, personal digital assistant, laptop computer, etc. includes a portable lightweight plastic housing  bearing a digital processor . The processor  can control a visual display  and an audible display  such as one or more speakers. The client consumer electronics device has a unique identifier that, without other means, is able to identify the client consumer electronics device within the IPTV system. The unique identifier may be assigned by a manufacturer or assigned by the management server when the client consumer electronics device is registered in the IPTV system.","To undertake present principles, the processor  may access one or more computer readable storage media  such as but not limited to RAM-based storage (e.g., a chip implementing dynamic random access memory (DRAM) or flash memory or diskbased-storage. Software code implementing present logic executable by the CE device  may also be stored on one of the memories shown to undertake present principles.","The processor  can receive user input signals from various input devices including a remote control device , a point and click device such as a mouse, a keypad, etc. A TV tuner  may be provided in some implementations particularly when the CE device is embodied by a TV to receive TV signals from a source such as a set-top box, satellite receiver, cable head end, terrestrial TV signal antenna, etc. Signals from the tuner  are sent to the processor  for presentation on the display  and speakers .","As shown in , a network interface  such as a wired or wireless modem or wireless telephony transceiver communicates with the processor  to provide connectivity to a wide area network such as the Internet. Double arrows in  indicate network communication between components over wired and\/or wireless links. In this way, the client device  can communicate with a management server  on the Internet and with one or more content servers , also on the Internet and communicating with the management server .","If desired, each content server  may be associated with a respective proxy server  which interfaces the content server  with the device . The servers , ,  have respective processors , , accessing respective nontransitory computer readable storage media , , which may be, without limitation, disk-based and\/or solid state storage. The servers communicate with a wide area network such as the Internet via respective network interfaces , , and . It is to be understood in view of disclosure below that the CE device  particularly when implemented by a non-PC device such as a TV or game console or camera can communicate only with the management server  and with content servers  that appear on a service list provided to the processor  by the management server , with the service list not being modifiable by the processor .","The electronic device is connected with the first device  using a cable such as a 1394 cable or a HDMI cable or using a wireless communication interface such as infrared signals. The electronic device may be a digital video recorder, a Blu-ray\u00ae player, a game player, an audio amplifier, or an air conditioner.","A second device  may be another consumer electronics device. The second device  may be another TV, game player, video disk player, camera, digital clock radio, mobile telephone, personal digital assistant, laptop computer, etc. The second device  with a housing  bears a digital processor  controlling a visual display  and an audible display  such as one or more speakers. To undertake present principles, the second or control processor  may access one or more computer readable storage media  such as but not limited to RAM-based storage (e.g., a chip implementing dynamic randdm access memory (DRAM) or flash memory or disk-based-storage. Software code implementing present logic executable by the second or control device  may also be stored on one of the memories shown to undertake present principles. Further, the second or control processor  can receive user input signals from various input devices  including a point and click device such as a mouse, a keypad, etc. A network interface  such as a wired or wireless modem or wireless telephony transceiver communicates with the processor  to provide connectivity to a wide area network such as the Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["36","12","30"]},"When a piece of content is selected, it may be sent to the IPTV for playback in the form of a reference id which is used by the IPTV to retrieve playback information. By eliminating the presence of the content URL on the second device, the risk of leaking major proprietary information which could result in huge losses is reduced. During the time of playback, the user can continue to browse for other content and queue it for future playback. The IPTV needs to be addressable by the second device to perform playback, which is the case when both devices are on the same local network. The user can also switch devices and resume playback on a different device such as the electronic device  in  by going to the recently viewed list and selecting the last video played after switching control to that device.","A detailed description of each state in  is provided as follows.","At state  a user turns on the first device , hereafter referred to as the \u201cIPTV client\u201d for convenience. At state  the IPTV client sends login information including, e.g., user name and password to the management server , which at state  returns to the IPTV client an IPTV session token that may subsequently be presented by the IPTV client device to a participating content server  to obtain content from that server. Also, the management server  stores the local IP address of the IPTV client device . Alternatively, in another embodiment, the management server  does not return a token in response to receiving login information. Subsequently, no token is required to be presented by the IPTV client device to the participating content server  to obtain content.","At state , the user instantiates an IPTV client control utility on the second device . The utility executed on the second device , at state , sends a request to the proxy server , which returns () a response in a suitable language, such as hypertext markup language (HTML) with JavaScript\u00ae for the second device  to execute in accordance with description below. This JavaScript\u00ae makes asynchronous JavaScript\u00ae and extended markup language (XML) (AJAX) calls to the proxy server and to the IPTV client device to obtain information to control the IPTV client device. In another embodiment, step  may not be necessary where other client application implementations are used, such as one where the client application is not downloaded each time it is used. It should also be noted that other technologies (e.g. C, C++, Perl\u00ae, and Flash\u00ae) can be used for the implementation of the client application and that neither HTML nor JavaScript\u00ae are required.","With more specificity, at state  using the JavaScript\u00ae, or alternatively, another method of implementing the client application, received from the proxy server  the second device  prompts the user to input to the second device  the user account information, such as account login information, including, e.g., the same user name and password that the IPTV client provided to the management server  at . Thus, the servers , ,  communicate necessary account information between them as needed to realize present principles.","At state  the proxy server , responsive to a correct user name and password from the second device , returns information about all IPTV clients  that are affiliated with the user account associated with the user name and password, including their local IP addresses which were stored by the management server  after login at  (and subsequently provided to the proxy server ).","When the user inputs to the second device  at state  a selected IPTV client device (in this example, the IPTV client device ) to use with the second device, the second device , using the local IP address returned at state , accesses the IPTV client device  directly. The second device  requests information about the IPTV client device  at state , including language information, rating information, digital rights management (DRM) information, etc. as desired, which information is returned from the IPTV client device  to the second device  at state . Since the second device  knows the IP address of the IPTV client device  and consequently communicates directly with the IPTV client device , the second device  communicates using a local web address of the IPTV client device  that need not be globally addressable, and may so communicate as long as the second device  and IPTV client device  are on the same local network.","At state  the second device  sends the client information received at state  to the proxy server , requesting a list of services available to the IPTV client device  from one or more of the content servers . The proxy server  relays the request for a list of services at state  to the management server , which returns the available services at state  to the proxy server . The proxy server  in turn sends the services list to the second device  at state  for presentation of available services on, e.g., the second device display .","State  indicates that a user can input (using, e.g., the second device input device ) a selection of a service on the list that was returned to the second device at state . In response, the second device , at state , sends a request for a list of content and categories to the proxy server  along with a service session token that the second device may have received from the content server  via the management server .","Responsive to the request, at state  the proxy server logs into the service of the content server  providing the selected service. At state  the content server  provides to the proxy server  a service session token for the particular content server . State  indicates that if desired the proxy server  may also request a list of content and categories of the content server , and the list is returned at state  in, e.g., extended markup language (XML) format to the proxy server , which relays the assets, categories, services, etc. available for selection to the second device  at state . When the list of assets or the list of options is provided to the second device, the URL associated with each asset or options are removed. A reference ID is added to the list for each asset and options. The second device requests a particular asset or option by using the reference ID. In this way, the second device may not obtain any URL of the assets or options.","The content available for selection is presented on the second device display  so that the user can navigate () the display to enter () a selection. Responsive to the selection the second device  at state  sends a command to the IPTV client  to play the selection. At state  the IPTV client device  then requests service information of the management server  information about the service the selected asset is in, logging in to the service if required. The requested information is returned from the management server  to the IPTV client  at state , and when the IPTV client  receives the asset information it plays the asset at state . Note that if the IPTV client is already playing content the new content commanded to be played by the second device is placed in a queue in the IPTV client and played when the current content completes.","Note further that the second device may command the IPTV client to play content by sending to the IPTV client over the home network commands coded as if they were sent from an infrared remote control (IR RC), specifically for example the commands may be in Sony Infrared Remote Control System (SIRCS) protocol. The second device may transmit command signals to the IPTV client to control the electronic device .","As shown in , if desired, temporally between states  and  a series of messages may be exchanged between the IPTV client  and the content server . For example, a request for content information may be made () by the IPTV client  and returned () by the content server . The above-described logging into the service may be relayed by the IPTV client  to the content server  at state  and a service session token returned to the IPTV client device at state  along with the before-mentioned asset information. Also, a request of content information may be made () and a playlist returned to () the IPTV client device .","The software (e.g., JavaScript\u00ae\/HTML) that is downloaded at state  can be made available to all electronic vendors who wish their users to be able to navigate, browse, and search IPTV content on a second device. In an embodiment in which HTML is used, the software can be used on any client device with a web browser.","The following situations illustrate some scenarios where the second device complements the IPTV's shortcomings, hence providing better user experience for the IPTV user. For example, a group of friends is watching video clips on an IPTV. Each of them are browsing content on their own Second Display and queuing up selections. In another example, someone is looking for content on a particular subject. They are able to quickly type in search terms using their second device even when those terms contain characters not supported by their IPTV. In another example, a man is watching the end of a ball game on the IPTV while his wife uses a Second Display to select a movie for them to watch when the game ends. In another example, a user may be away from an IPTV, but the user may use a smart phone as the second device to browse contents and select a preferable content to be played on the IPTV.","In the above-identified situations, using a second device can provide many benefits, such as:\n\n","The second device provides an enhanced user experience of the IPTV without adding to the hardware costs of the unit, thus making data entry easy and allows users to browse content on the side. IPTV is also a global solution which connects various IPTV devices together in a cohesive manner through its potential of initiating playback across devices. The system also provides the highest level of customer service to users through its one-click customer service feature, where users do not provide any device information, which can be difficult to retrieve in the event of a device breakdown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"300"},"Then the user browses an Internet video link. After that, the device data is requested from the second display and then the requested device data is sent from the proxy server to the second display device. Thus, the second display device can be used to display content even when the IPTV device is not available. The use of the second display device to display content depends on the display capabilities and display functions of the second display device. The second display sends a request using second display protocol to the proxy server, and then the proxy server requests to the service provider, and the service provider responds. The proxy server responds using a second display protocol to the second display with the associated URL replaced with playlist ID.","After the user selects playback, the second display device attempts to send the playlist ID to the IPTV client device. When the IPTV client device is reachable, the playlist ID is received. Then the playlist ID is sent from the IPTV client to the proxy server, and playlist data is returned from the proxy server to the IPTV client. The IPTV client requests a content URL with playlist data of the service provider, and then the service provider returns the content URL for playback to the IPTV client device. When the IPTV client device is not reachable, the playlist ID is not received and the second display device notifies the user that the IPTV client device is not reachable. The second display device stores the Playlist ID for a later attempt at sending to the IPTV client device.","In another embodiment, the second display device may inform a server of the playlist ID and when the IPTV device is connected to the server, may receive the request even when the IPTV device and the second display device are on separate local networks and cannot address each other. In this case, the IPTV device may still not be reachable, as in a case where the IPTV device may not be connected to a power supply, and the request is queued at the server to be sent at a later time when the IPTV device is reachable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":"400"},"The process begins in step  in which the user turns on an IPTV client device. After the IPTV client device is registered with the management server, or authenticated with the management server, as shown in step , the management server starts the session in step . Then in step  the user turns on the second display, and, when necessary, sends a request for a second display application to a proxy server, as shown in step . The request for the second display application is optional and is used only when desired. When requested, the application is loaded onto the second display in step . In step  the user logs into the account, which is the account the IPTV device is registered. In step  an authentication request is sent from the second display to the proxy server. In step  the proxy server verifies the credentials of the IPTV client with the management server, and then in step  the management server confirms the credentials with the proxy server. In step , authentication is completed. It is an embodiment of the present invention that the server in steps  and  may be in the same server. Alternatively, there may be more than two servers splitting the server tasks.","In step  the user browses the Internet video link and is presented with a list of IPTV devices. In step  device data, describing the second display is requested by the second display device and then in step  the requested device data is sent by the proxy server to the second display device. In step  the second display sends a request using a second display protocol to the proxy server. In step  requests from the proxy server are sent to the service provider and the service provider responds, as shown in step . In step , the second display device receives categories, options and a content list from the proxy server. Alternatively, the proxy server may send content to the second display device with the associated URL replaced with playlist ID. Alternatively, the service provider may permit, in some cases, the URL is sent to the second display device. For example, the second display may have a secure application, and the service provider may allow a second display with a secure application to receive the URL. Thus, the content URL may be transmitted to the IPTV device for playback, rather than having the IPTV device retrieve the data from the server.","In step  the user selects playback and then in step  the playlist ID is sent from the second display device to the IPTV client device. If the IPTV client does not answer or does not acknowledge the request to play the content, or is unable to play the content at the time, such as when the IPTV client device may be on and reachable, but a viewer has enacted a \u201cdo not disturb\u201d mode, the second display device informs the user that the IPTV client device is unreachable (not available to play the content at this time) and queues the request to be repeated at a later time when the IPTV client device is reachable. In step  the playlist ID is sent from IPTV client to the proxy server, and playlist data is returned from the proxy server to IPTV client in step . In step  the IPTV client requests content at the URL associated with playlist data to the service provider, and then in step  the service provider returns content at that URL for playback to the IPTV client device. Alternatively, the proxy server may store the URL content and thus, return the URL content to the IPTV client device without the need to request the content at the URL associated with the playlist data from the service provider. Thus, when the proxy server stores the URL, step  is not used, rather, once the IPTV client device obtains the URL, the IPTV client device can start playback.","The present invention relates to redirecting an IPTV device after content playback. The redirect can be specified by a service provider, an advertising server, or a user's input.","The present invention is useful to service providers because control is provided to them to redirect a user to a new website or page after a user has viewed provided content. One embodiment of the present invention is providing promotional material, additional information, recommended content, product offerings, merchandise sales and other material and\/or articles available for sale.","For example, after a user has watched a Spiderman trailer, the user can be redirected to a promotional form where the user can subscribe for movie updates, special showings, opportunities to meet the actors based on locations, buy movie tickets, or buy related merchandise. Alternatively, the user may be redirected to related movies or movie trailers.","Embodiments of the present invention allow a service provider to specify what data will be displayed on an IPTV device and\/or other functions that may be performed by the IPTV device once the IPTV device is finished playing content. The service provider accomplishes this \u201cre-direct\u201d function by returning XML tags that contain directional command, or instruction, for an IPTV device to take after an initial or requested asset is played when the IPTV device requests an asset list or asset information in the commands to access data and\/or content. An XML tag may direct an IPTV device to a website or related content, or direct the IPTV device to play a related asset. The XML tag directs the IPTV device to go to a particular category or asset. The XML tag also has data regarding the asset to request. The XML tag is typically defined as part of the API (application programming interface) and provides instruction on the next action after an asset is transmitted from the service provider.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-5D","FIG. 5"]},"As shown in , which shows a case where no exit or redirect action is specified, a user , access an IPTV device  to communicate with a service server, or module , which provides data such as assets lists and asset information. An assets list may include, for example, assets and\/or links to other categories. As shown in , the IPTV device  sends a command to obtain an assets list (step ) from service module . The service module  transmits an assets list (step ) to the IPTV device , which then displays the assets list (step ). The user  may then select an asset to play (step ) from the assets list. The IPTV device  sends a command to service module  to obtain asset information (step ), which is used by the IPTV device to play an asset.","The service module  sends the asset information to the IPTV device  (step ). The IPTV device  then plays the asset (step ). Following the playing step, the IPTV device  displays the assets list (step ). The assets list displayed in step , as shown by element , is the same assets list that the played asset (step ) was chosen from.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5B"],"b":["502","504","506","504","508","506","506","510","504","512","502","507","504","506","514"]},"The service module  sends the asset information to the IPTV device  (step ). The IPTV device  then plays the asset (step ). Following the playing step, the IPTV device  sends a command to the service module  to obtain an assets list (step ). The service module  sends the requested assets list to the IPTV device  (step ). This assets list sent in step  is a different assets list than the assets list sent in step . When the service module  sends the assets list, an XML tag can be sent that contains direction for the IPTV device  to direct the IPTV device  to a particular website or related content, or the XML tag may direct the IPTV device  to play a related asset.","The IPTV device  displays the assets list (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 5C","FIG. 5C"],"b":["502","504","506","504","508","506","506","510","504","512","502","507","504","506","514"]},"The service module  sends the asset information to the IPTV device  (step ). The IPTV device  then plays the asset (step ). Following the playing step, the IPTV device  sends a command to the service module  to obtain assets information (step ). The service module  sends the requested asset information to the IPTV device  (step ). When the service module  sends the assets information, an XML tag can be sent that contains direction, or instruction, for the IPTV device  to retrieve a category or asset from the service module. This asset is then displayed on the IPTV device , as shown in step .","The operation represented in  differs from that in , in that assets, which are identified by the service module, are requested and played (, , ) by the IPTV device in , whereas asset lists are requested and displayed (, , ) in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0104"},"figref":["FIG. 5D","FIG. 5D","FIG. 5D"],"b":["502","504","506","504","508","506","506","510","504","512","502","507","504","506","514"]},"The service module  sends the asset information to the IPTV device  (step ). The IPTV device  then plays the asset (step ). Following the playing step, the IPTV device  sends a command to the service module  to obtain an assets list (as in ) or obtain asset information (as in ) (step ). In response to this request from the IPTV device , the service module  sends a form to the IPTV device  (step ). The IPTV device  displays the form (step ), which the user  can fill in.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},"As shown in , the process starts, as shown in step . A user views an assets list provided by a service, using an IPTV device, as shown in step . The user may then select an asset from the assets list, as shown in step . This selection is transmitted to the service provider using the IPTV device. The user obtains asset information, as shown in step . The service provider returns content of the selected asset, and the IPTV device displays the requested content, as shown in step .","A determination is made at step  whether the content displaying function is complete. If the content display is not complete, \u201cno\u201d line  leads to the display step, .","If the content display is complete, \u201cyes\u201d line  shows that a determination is made at step  whether the asset information indicates an exit action, as may be present in the API. If not \u201cno\u201d line  shows that the asset list is displayed as shown in step . The exit action typically directs the IPTV device to return to the previous location to which the IPTV device had navigated, which may be, for example, a list of assets.","If an exit action is indicated in step , \u201cyes\u201d line  shows that the type of exit action is determined, as shown in step . If an asset is desired, asset line  shows that asset information is obtained, as shown in step . An XML tag can be sent that provides direction for an IPTV device, as mentioned above. A determination is made whether the asset information is a form that is returned, as shown in step . If so, \u201cyes\u201d line  shows that the form is displayed, as shown in step . If a form is not returned, \u201cno\u201d line  shows the asset is played, as shown in step .","If step  determines that an asset list is appropriate, \u201clist\u201d line  shows that an asset list is obtained, as shown in step . An XML tag can be sent that provides direction for the IPTV device to navigate to a particular site that is a source for the asset list. A determination is made whether the form is returned, as shown in step . If so, \u201cyes\u201d line  shows that the form is displayed, as shown in step . Returning the form to the user is accomplished by the API allowing the form to be included in the results. The form is displayed to the user instead of processing the information for an asset. If the form is not returned, \u201cno\u201d line  shows that an asset list is displayed, as shown in step .","Following playing of the asset (), displaying a form () or displaying an asset list (), end step  is reached.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0113"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","702","706","712","702","706","714","702","702","704","716","718","702","706","706","720","702","722","702","704","724","704","726","706"]},"The server device  provides content information including post playback instructions () to the IPTV device . The IPTV device  requests content (media) ) from a service provider . The service provider  provides the content () to the IPTV device , which the IPTV device  plays (). The IPTV device  then executes post-playback instructions (). These post playback instructions are, for example, an asset list, and\/or asset information, and\/or a form. Furthermore, the post playback instructions () may determine post playback functions of the particular IPTV device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0115"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","800","804","812","806","806","814","804"]},"The IPTV device  requests asset information () from a service provider . The service provider  provides asset information with post playback instructions () to the IPTV device . The IPTV device  plays the asset () and then sends post playback commands from the content information () to the server . The IPTV device  executes any and all post playback instructions (). The server  returns post playback commands () to IPTV device . The IPTV device  then executes post playback commands ().","It will be appreciated from the above that the invention may be implemented as computer software, which may be supplied on a storage medium or via a transmission medium such as a local-area network or a wide-area network, such as the Internet. It is to be further understood that, because some of the constituent system components and method steps depicted in the accompanying Figures can be implemented in software, the actual connections between the systems components (or the process steps) may differ depending upon the manner in which the present invention is programmed. Given the teachings of the present invention provided herein, one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate these and similar implementations or configurations of the present invention.","It is to be understood that the present invention can be implemented in various forms of hardware, software, firmware, special purpose processes, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the present invention can be implemented in software as an application program tangible embodied on a computer readable program storage device. The application program can be uploaded to, and executed by, a machine comprising any suitable architecture.","The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only, as the invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore, no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown, other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular embodiments disclosed above may be altered or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of the invention. Although illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments, and that various changes and modifications can be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, certain illustrative embodiments of the invention are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These embodiments are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed and the present invention is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages, embodiments and novel features of the invention may become apparent from the following description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings. The following description, given by way of example, but not intended to limit the invention solely to the specific embodiments described, may best be understood in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-5D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
