---
title: Printing to a cloud printer via NFC
abstract: A system and machine-implemented method for sending a print request from a device to a cloud printer within a cloud, the cloud comprising the cloud printer and a cloud server. A network connection is established with the cloud server, and print data is transmitted from the device to the cloud server via the network connection. Print data location information is received from the cloud server via the network connection, the print data location information specifying an address of the print data in the cloud. An NFC connection is established with the cloud printer, and a print request is sent to the cloud printer via the NFC connection. The print request includes the print data location information and is configured to be used by the cloud printer to obtain the print data from the cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08189225&OS=08189225&RS=08189225
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08189225
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111004
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The subject disclosure generally relates to printing within a cloud, and, in particular, to sending a print request from a device to a cloud printer within a cloud.","In some cases, the user of an electronic device, such as a mobile phone, may wish to print from the electronic device to a printer. For example, the user of a mobile phone may take a photo with the mobile phone and desire to print that photo. Using conventional techniques, the user may be required to email the photo from the device to an email account, login to that email account from another device connected to a printer, download the photo from the email using the other device, and send a print request with the downloaded photo from the other device to the connected printer. This process can be inconvenient to the user.","Furthermore, the ability to print within a cloud computing environment is typically desirable. In this regard, cloud computing typically refers to the on-demand provision of computational resources (e.g., data, software) via a computer network, rather than from a local computer. Thus, a more convenient manner for printing from an electronic device within a cloud may be desirable.","The disclosed subject matter provides for sending a print request from a device to a cloud printer within a cloud, the cloud comprising the cloud printer and a cloud server. A network connection is established between the device and the cloud server, and print data is transmitted from the device to the cloud server via the network connection. Print data location information is received by the device from the cloud server via the network connection, the print data location information specifying an address of the print data in the cloud. An NFC connection is established between the device and the cloud printer, and a print request is sent from the device to the cloud printer via the NFC connection. The print request includes the print data location information and is configured to be used by the cloud printer to obtain the print data from the cloud.","The disclosed subject matter relates to a machine-implemented method for sending a print request from a device to a cloud printer within a cloud, the cloud comprising the cloud printer and a cloud server. The method comprises establishing a network connection with the cloud server, and transmitting print data from the device to the cloud server via the network connection. The method further comprises receiving, in response to the transmitted print data, print data location information from the cloud server via the network connection, the print data location information specifying an address of the print data in the cloud. In addition, the method comprises establishing an NFC connection with the cloud printer, and sending a print request to the cloud printer via the NFC connection, the print request comprising the print data location information and being configured to be used by the cloud printer to obtain the print data from the cloud.","The disclosed subject matter also relates to a device for sending a print request from a device to a cloud printer within a cloud. The device comprises one or more processors, and a machine-readable medium comprising instructions stored therein, which when executed by the processors, cause the processors to perform operations comprising establishing an NFC connection with the cloud printer, and sending a print request to the cloud printer via the NFC connection, the print request comprising print data location information specifying an address of print data in the cloud, and the print request being configured to be used by the cloud printer to obtain the print data from the cloud.","The disclosed subject matter further relates to a machine-implemented method for printing from a cloud printer within a cloud, the cloud comprising the cloud printer and a cloud server. The method comprises establishing an NFC connection with a device, and receiving a print request from the device via the NFC connection, the print request comprising print data location information specifying an address of print data in the cloud. The method further comprises establishing a network connection with the cloud server, and sending a request for the print data to the cloud server via the network connection, the request comprising the print data location information received from the device, and the request being configured to be used by the cloud server to obtain the print data from the cloud. In addition, the method comprises receiving the print data from the cloud server via the network connection, and printing the received print data.","The disclosed subject matter further relates to a machine-implemented method for processing print data at a cloud server within a cloud, the cloud comprising the cloud server and a cloud printer. The method comprises establishing a first network connection with a device, receiving print data from the device via the first network connection, and storing the print data received from the device in the cloud. The method further comprises generating print data location information which specifies an address of the print data in the cloud, transmitting the print data location information to the device via the first network connection, and establishing a second network connection with the cloud printer. In addition, the method comprises receiving a request for the print data from the cloud printer via the second network connection, the request for print data comprising the print data location information, retrieving the print data from the cloud using the print data location information, and sending the print data to the cloud printer via the second network connection.","It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized, the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects, all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly, the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.","The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However, it will be clear and apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well-known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","106","110","108"]},"Network  can correspond to a cloud network. In this regard, the term \u201ccloud\u201d or \u201ccloud-aware\u201d references the use of \u201ccloud computing,\u201d which, generally speaking, includes a style of computing in which computing resources such as application programs and file storage are remotely provided over a network. Network  can include one or more networks, such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), an intranet, the Internet, or another type of network. Printer , electronic device  and server  can connect to network  via wired, wireless, optical, or other types of network connections.","Printer  can communicate with electronic device  through near field communication (NFC) connection . In other words, NFC connection  can enable near field communication between electronic device  and printer . In this regard, NFC is a short-range wireless communication technology. In NFC, a \u201creader\u201d and \u201ctag\u201d typically exchange data only when they are within a specific distance of one another. NFC typically requires a distance of 4 cm or less. Thus, data communications typically terminate either by a command from an application using the NFC link, or when the communicating devices move out of range.","Electronic device  can be a laptop or desktop computer, a netbook, a tablet computer, a smartphone, a camera, or any device which may store or have access to data which a user may desire to print. In the example of , electronic device  is depicted as a handheld device. Printer  can be an electronic imaging device, and server  can be any computing system which can function as a server, such as a print server.","In the example of , electronic device  can receive a print request from a user of electronic device . Electronic device  can establish a network connection (via network ) with server , and can transmit print data to server  via the network connection. Server  can store the print data in a cloud (e.g. within a cloud corresponding to network ). Server  can generate print data location information (e.g., a URL) which specifies an address of the print data in the cloud (e.g., in a storage location in the cloud), and can transmit the print data location information to electronic device  via the network connection. Electronic device  can establish an NFC connection  with printer , and can send a print request to printer  via NFC connection , where the print request can include the print data location information. Printer  can establish a network connection (via network ) with server , and can send a request for the print data to the cloud server using the network connection. The request for print data can include the print data location information received from electronic device . Server  can retrieve the print data from the cloud using the print data location information, and can transmit the print data to printer  via the network connection. Printer  can then print the received print data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","106","102","110"]},"System  can be a computer, phone, personal digital assistant (PDA), or any other sort of electronic device. System  can include various types of computer readable media and interfaces for various other types of computer readable media. System  includes a bus , processing unit(s) , a system memory , a read-only memory (ROM) , a permanent storage device , an input device interface , an output device interface , an NFC interface , and a network interface .","Bus  collectively represents all system, peripheral, and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of system . For instance, bus  communicatively connects processing unit(s)  with ROM , system memory , and permanent storage device .","From these various memory units, processing unit(s)  retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject disclosure. Processing unit(s)  can be a single processor or a multi-core processor in different implementations.","ROM  stores static data and instructions that are needed by processing unit(s)  and other modules of system . Permanent storage device , on the other hand, is a read-and-write memory device. This device is a non-volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when system  is off. Some implementations of the subject disclosure use a mass-storage device (such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive) as permanent storage device .","Other implementations use a removable storage device (such as a floppy disk, flash drive, and its corresponding disk drive) as permanent storage device . Like permanent storage device , system memory  is a read-and-write memory device. However, unlike storage device , system memory  is a volatile read-and-write memory, such a random access memory. System memory  stores some of the instructions and data that processing unit(s)  needs at runtime. In some implementations, the subject disclosure's processes are stored in system memory , permanent storage device , and\/or read-only memory . For example, the various memory units include instructions for establishing an NFC link and for participating in NFC communication in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units, processing unit(s)  retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.","Bus  also connects to the input device interface  and output device interface . Input device interface  enables the user to communicate information and select commands to system . Input devices used with input device interface  include, for example, alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices (also called \u201ccursor control devices\u201d). Output device interface  enables, for example, the display of images generated by system . Output devices used with output device interface  include, for example, printers and display devices, such as cathode ray tubes (CRT) or liquid crystal displays (LCD). Some implementations include devices such as a touch screen that functions as both input and output devices.","As shown in , it is possible for bus  to couple system  to a network (not shown) through a network interface . In this manner, system  can be a part of a network of computers (e.g., a LAN or WAN), an Intranet, or a network of networks, such as the Internet.","Certain implementations of system  may also include a near field communication (NFC) interface  allowing for close range communication. According to example embodiments, NFC interface  may comply with such standards as ISO 18092 or ISO 22421, and may have a range of approximately 2 to 4 cm. Of course, NFC interface  is not limited to these standards and ranges, and other interfaces allowing for close range communication can be used.","The close range communication with NFC interface  may take place via magnetic field induction, allowing NFC interface  to communicate with other NFC interfaces  or to retrieve information from tags having radio frequency identification (RFID) circuitry. As discussed below, NFC interface  may provide a manner for establishing an NFC link between different instances of system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["106","106","200","200","110","102","200","106","102","208","208","106","102"]},"In step , electronic device  receives a print request from a user. The print request can be implicit or explicit. For an explicit request, the user of electronic device  can explicitly request printing, for example, via a print request dialog on electronic device . An example of an implicit request can correspond to electronic device  detecting printer  (e.g., via NFC). In such a case, it is possible that no confirmation dialog will appear on electronic device  to confirm printing, but a progress dialog may appear on electronic device  to show the status of a print job. It should be noted that if an NFC connection is established between electronic device  and printer , it is possible that this can serve as the establishment of an NFC connection in steps and , which is described in greater detail below. In steps and , a network connection is established between electronic device  and server . In steps and , electronic device  transmits a storage request identifying print data to server  via the established network connection.","The storage request can include the print data itself or identify a location of the print data. For example, the storage request can include print data such as a photo stored on electronic device . In another example, the print data can be associated with an application server within the cloud, and the storage request can identify the print data associated with the application server (e.g., as a URL).","In step , server  stores the print data in the cloud, and generates print data location information which specifies an address of the print data in the cloud. For example, the print data location information can be in the form of a URL. However, other formats for identifying the location of the print data can be used. In steps and , server  transmits the generated print data location information to electronic device  via the network connection. The network connection established in steps and can then be terminated (not shown).","In steps and , an NFC connection is established between electronic device  and printer . To establish the is connection, a user may position (hereinafter referred to as \u201ctap\u201d) NFC interface  of electronic device  to be within a predetermined distance (e.g., between 2 to 4 cm) of NFC interface  of printer . Once the NFC connection has been established, printer  and electronic device  may communicate information between each other via the NFC connection.","Prior to the start of establishing the NFC connection, electronic device  may be in a \u201cwake on NFC\u201d mode. In this mode, NFC interface  of electronic device  may remain inactive until NFC interface  receives an NFC signal from another NFC interface . At the same time, NFC interface  of printer  may be in a host mode. In the host mode, NFC interface  of printer  may periodically emit NFC signals to seek out other nearby NFC interfaces .","The establishment of the NFC connection in step  may begin with an initiation handshake. The initiation handshake may start when a user taps NFC interface  of electronic device  to NFC interface  of printer . As mentioned above, while NFC interface  of printer  may be in a host mode, NFC interface  of printer  may periodically emit a ping message. NFC interface  of electronic device  may receive the ping message, causing NFC interface  of electronic device  to awake. Subsequently, NFC interface  of electronic device  may reply with an acknowledgement message, which may be received by NFC interface  of printer .","Printer  and electronic device  may exchange device profiles following the initiation handshake. The device profiles may include a variety of information regarding the capabilities of printer  and electronic device . Furthermore, electronic device  and printer  may authenticate one another, based at least in part on the previously-exchanged device profiles. In the device authentication, electronic device  or printer  may determine whether the other is trusted using any number of authentication schemes. The establishment of the NFC connection in steps and may be cancelled if either electronic device  or printer  fails to authenticate the other.","For example, electronic device  and printer  may rely on a private key known to both devices, which may have been exchanged prior to the establishment of the NFC connection in steps and . Alternatively, electronic device  and printer  may rely on a combination of a public key and a private key. Using this scheme, electronic device  and printer  may each exchange public keys associated with one another, or may obtain public keys from another source, such as a web service. Electronic device  and printer  may verify the public keys with a certificate authority (e.g., over the Internet). For example, the web service may represent a certificate authority. If there is any link broken in the chain of trust, establishment of the NFC connection may be terminated.","Following establishment of the NFC connection in step , electronic device  and printer  may remain in communication via the NFC connection to transfer additional information. Thus, in steps and , electronic device  sends a print request to printer  via the established NFC connection, the print request including the print data location information. The NFC connection established in steps and can then be terminated (not shown).","Before accepting the print data location information, it is possible for an authentication to be performed between printer  and electronic device . This authentication can be separate from authentication for establishing an NFC connection. In one aspect, printer  may determine if electronic device  is permitted to print. For example, color printing typically increases office operation cost, so color printing may be limited to the electronic devices of employees only. Of course, authentication is not limited to this example, and other forms of authentication between electronic device  and printer  can be performed.","In steps and , printer  establishes a network connection with server . In steps and , printer  sends a request for the print data to server  via the established network connection. The request for print data includes the print data location information received from electronic device  through NFC.","Before the request and print data location information is transferred from printer  to server , it is possible for authentication to be performed between printer  and server . In one aspect, to protect user data on server , when a user of electronic device  wants to print data from a cloud printer, the user may first be required to let server  know which cloud printer (e.g., printer ) the user is operating on. For example, this information can be included in step , so that server  knows which printer (e.g., printer ) can access the user's data. As such, when printer  sends a request for print data in step , server  can grant access if printer  matches that used by the user. Thus, even if the generated print data location information is compromised, the print data of the user can remain secure.","In step , server  retrieves the print data from the cloud using the print data location information. In steps and , server  transmits the print data to printer  via the network connection. Before doing so, server  may format the print data for printer . The network connection established in steps and can then be terminated (not shown). Printer  then prints the received print data in step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["402","110","426","106","438","456","102","424","108"]},"In this regard, device  is illustrated as an example of virtually any computing device from which a user may wish to execute a print job. By way of nonlimiting example, then, device  may include a laptop or desktop computer, a netbook, a tablet computer, a smartphone, a camera, or any device which may store or have access to data which the user may desire to print.","Cloud print service  may be executed on cloud print server , which provides printing capabilities over network . As described in detail below, cloud print service  can therefore provide a user with a uniform printing experience which is platform-independent and which unburdens the user of the need to configure, update, or otherwise maintain or oversee printer operations. Various other features and advantages of cloud print service  are described in detail below, and\/or would be apparent.","In the example of , an operating system  is illustrated as executing an application . Again, these elements are included by way of illustration and example, and may include virtually any operating system or other platform on which virtually any application may run. Operating system  may include a browser-based operating system.","Consequently, application  may include virtually any application which may run on any underlying operating system or platform. Examples of such applications are well-known and too numerous to mention in any detail, but generally include document processing applications, email applications, image editing or presentation software, a web browser, or virtually any application which provides the user with a rendering of data which the user may wish to print.","Application  may correspond to a local application which executes on device . Alternatively, application  may represent a web application which executes on a remote application server  as application . That is, application  may include any application functionality which is accessed by the user over network  and experienced locally as application , e.g., using a browser running at device . As is known, such web applications allow an owner of application server  to assume responsibility for installing, configuring, executing, and maintaining application  at application server , so that the user of device  may obtain the benefit of application  without many or any of the associated costs and responsibilities. Techniques for executing such a web application, and related technology, are well known in the art and are therefore not described further in detail herein, except as may be helpful or necessary to understand operations of system  of .","Network  may represent, for example, the Internet or other wide area public or private network. Network  may represent, in further examples, a corporate or other intranet, and\/or a smaller-scale, local or personal network, any of which may be implemented using standard network technology.","Further in , a cloud-aware printer  is illustrated which is configured to communicate with cloud print service  over network . As noted above, cloud computing allows for computing resources such as application programs and file storage to be remotely provided over a network such as the Internet. For example, the computing resources can be provided through a web browser. Many web browsers are capable of running applications, which can themselves be application programming interfaces (\u201cAPI's\u201d) to more sophisticated applications running on remote servers. In the cloud computing paradigm, a web browser interfaces with and controls an application program that is running on a remote server. Through the browser, the user can create, edit, save and delete files on the remote server via the remote application program. Thus, it may be observed that application server  and associated application  may also represent examples of cloud computing.","In the context of cloud-aware printer , cloud print service  enables application  to print directly to cloud-aware printer , without a requirement or need for (e.g., independently of), involvement of operating system . In other words, application  may communicate directly with cloud print service  to thereby print to cloud-aware printer , without e.g., requiring a local driver within operating system . As a result, virtually any application  that may be configured to communicate with the cloud print service  may make use of cloud-aware printer , as described in detail, below.","For example, cloud print service  may be configured to register the user and\/or device , as well as cloud-aware printer . In a specific example, the device may be a smartphone, and the user may use application  to purchase a ticket (e.g., a movie ticket, or an airline ticket). Then, the user may print the purchased ticket directly to cloud-aware printer , even though device  and\/or operating system  may not have the resources, or otherwise be configured, to support native printing in a conventional sense (e.g., may not currently be executing a print driver of any sort associated with cloud-aware printer ). In this way, the user of application  may be provided with a print option and associated abilities that are not currently provided in conventional printing paradigms and techniques. Many other such examples are described herein, or would be apparent.","Cloud-aware printer  may be contrasted with a legacy printer , which does not natively support communication with cloud print service . Therefore, to illustrate additional or alternative examples of implementations of system  of , a separate device  is illustrated, which, as described below, may be modified to impart the advantages of cloud print service  to legacy printer . Similarly, a router  may additionally or alternatively be modified to thereby enable legacy printer  to participate in the cloud printing paradigm defined by the operations of cloud print service , as described in detail below.","In short, system  provides an ability for virtually any application running on any device within network  (e.g., applications ,  and device ) to communicate with cloud print service  to thereby print to any printer which is also in (direct or indirect) communication with cloud print service . Consequently, users may benefit from increased printing options and abilities, and experience an overall decrease in the costs and efforts associated with doing so. Meanwhile, printer manufacturers may experience a decreased or eliminated need to provide users with the (updated) driver(s) and other prerequisites for users to fully experience the benefits of their products. This may result in, for example, higher customer satisfaction, and a decreased cost of producing and maintaining printers.","In more detail, cloud print service  includes a registration manager , which may be configured to register printers and users. As shown, then, a printer manager  may be configured to receive a registration of cloud-aware printer  and\/or legacy printer , including storing identification information therefore within a data store  of registered printers. Similarly, a user manager  may be configured to register a user(s) who may currently or potentially wish to execute print jobs using cloud print service , and to store identification information for such users within a data store  of registered users.","There are many example scenarios and techniques by which users and\/or printers may come to be registered with cloud print service  through the registration manager . In general, for example, a user of device  may use a browser to visit a website associated with cloud print service , and may enter a username\/password combination to establish a user account with the print service.","In other examples, such users already may have a user account with a separate and possibly related service or service provider. For example, various online services (e.g., other cloud-based computing resources) may provide functionality such as email, data storage, and document processing, and, in such cases, a user already may have a secure user account established in connection therewith. In such cases, cloud print service  may leverage or access such existing user accounts, e.g., to avoid a need to create a new user account, and to facilitate access of existing users of other services with the cloud print service.","Consequently, it may be appreciated that although user manager  and registered users data store  are illustrated as being within cloud print service , it also may occur that related functionality exists externally to the cloud print service, and is accessed thereby. For example, application server  may provide an email application as application , and a user of device  may be registered with this email application (service). In such a case, application server  may have the responsibility of maintaining the user's account, and cloud print service  may simply interface with application server  and provide access to the user once the user is logged into application .","Techniques for registering users, maintaining user accounts, and maintaining security of users' accounts, are well-known in the art, and are not necessarily described here in detail, except as may be necessary or helpful to understand operations of system , or related systems.","Meanwhile, printer manager , as referenced above, is responsible for registering cloud-aware printer , legacy printer , and\/or any printer  which may interface with cloud print service  and which may currently or potentially be accessed by a user of the cloud print service.","An application manager  may be configured to communicate with any application which may be desired to be used for printing within system , including, e.g., application , and application . Thus, for example, application manager  may implement various application programming interfaces (APIs) which enable such communication with external applications.","In general, though, application manager  may include the functions of receiving a print request, and then receiving an actual print job, from, e.g., application . Receiving the print job may include receiving print data to be printed, along with print characteristics characterizing preferences and other aspects of how the print data is desired to be printed (e.g., color vs. black-and white, paper size, orientation, number of copies, or any other relevant or desired print characteristic). Application manager  may conduct other communications with application , as well, such as, e.g., providing a status of a printer or print job.","According to an example aspect, the first function of receiving a print request may include providing the user of application  (directly or indirectly) with a print dialog or other user interface with which the user may select an available\/associated registered printer. Alternatively, designation of a printer can occur via NFC. In this regard, device , cloud aware printer  and device  can include NFC interfaces ,  and , respectively. Each of NFC interfaces ,  and  can correspond to NFC interface  of , and can be used to engage in NFC with other NFC enabled devices.","For example, NFC interfaces  and  may present a manner of establishing an NFC connection for data transfer between device  and cloud aware printer . Furthermore, the user of application  can request a print job and save the associated print data to the cloud. In saving the print job to the cloud, cloud print service  can store the print data in a storage location in the cloud, generate print data location information specifying the storage location, and provide the print data location information to device . As noted above, the print data location information can correspond to a URL or any other format for identifying the location of the print data. When the user is ready for the printout, he\/she can establish an NFC connection by tapping device  with a printer (e.g., cloud aware printer , or device  for legacy printer ), thereby designating that printer for printout. Once the NFC connection is established, device  can transfer the print data location information to the printer. The printer can in turn request receipt of the print data from cloud print service , using the print data location information. The printer can then receive the data from the cloud and begin printing.","By communicating the print data location information between device  and cloud aware printer  via NFC interfaces  and , respectively, it is possible to forego user selection of a printer from the list of available printers or to avoid displaying the list of printers altogether. In addition, the use of NFC to designate the printer can allow for queuing of multiple print jobs on the cloud. In particular, the user can send multiple print jobs to the cloud, and can tap device  with a printer when he\/she is ready for all of the printouts.","Application manager  may communicate with application  (or other applications) in a format that is independent of a specific printer, e.g., that is generic with respect to all available or relevant printers within system . In this way, application  is relieved of some or all of the burdens associated with needing knowledge of a destination printer when formulating and\/or sending the print job.","For example, application  may formulate both the print data and print characteristics in the same manner, regardless of whether the print job is destined for, e.g., cloud-aware printer  or legacy printer . In fact, even if the user of application  does not currently have any registered printer associated with his or her user account, the print job still may be forwarded to cloud print service  for storage, and later printed to whatever printer is ultimately registered with cloud print service  and the user's account. As noted above, the print job can also be printed to a printer by establishing an NFC connection between device  and the printer.","Consequently, application  may include or use, or be associated with, APIs to communicate with application manager , where such APIs may be light-weight, consistent, customizable, and easy to implement within or among various applications. Moreover, such APIs may rarely, if ever, need to be updated or maintained by the user in order for the user print from the application using cloud print service . Instead, such updates may be managed by an administrator or other provider of cloud print service  and\/or by a provider of application , so that the user of application  is unburdened of associated efforts and responsibilities. Even as new printers are introduced into the marketplace over time, the user may have the experience that application  is able to utilize the new printer(s) simply by way of registration of the new printers with cloud print service .","Print jobs received at application manager  in the printer independent or generic format may be passed to a format converter , which may be configured to receive a print job from application manager  and facilitate or execute conversion of the print job into a format associated with the designated (type of) printer for the print job in question. Such conversion may thus generally include, as needed, conversion of the print data itself, as well as conversion of the print characteristics specified within a given print job. In a case where the printer is designated by establishing an NFC connection between device  and the printer, it is possible that format converter  may not receive and\/or format the print job until the NFC connection has been established to designate the printer.","Furthermore, printers generally require low-level, device or type-specific instructions which provide a basis by which printers actually apply ink to paper to achieve a desired appearance. Such instructions therefore may include very specific portrayal of the desired print outcome, using, e.g., a Page Description Language (PDL). For example, the language PostScript may be used to describe a desired print outcome, and then rendered (e.g., rasterized) by a specific printer to generate printed text or images. Additionally, fixed-layout document formats exist which are designed to facilitate device-independent printing while maintaining document fidelity. For example, the portable document format (.pdf) is an example of such a format, where .pdf documents may be generated using PostScript. Somewhat similarly, the XML Paper Specification (XPS) provides such a fixed-layout document format, which is based on the eXtensible Markup Language (XML).","Print data may be received from application  in virtually any format, including, e.g., Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), or in a format associated with document processing and\/or images (e.g., .jpeg), or in the PDF or XPS formats referenced above. Format converter  may thus be configured to receive print data in these and other various formats and convert the print data into a format that is recognizable by a designated printer.","Similarly, format converter  may be configured to convert the print characteristics associated with the print job into a format that is recognizable by the designated printer. That is, as referenced above, the print characteristics may include aspects of how the print data should or can be printed; i.e., based on preferences of the user and\/or on capabilities (or lack thereof) of the designated printer(s). For example, legacy printer  may be a black-and-white printer with no two-sided printing abilities, while cloud-aware printer  may be a color printer with two-sided printing. Format converter  may then provide conversion, accordingly, depending on a selected printer.","Format converter  may provide and execute the resulting, converted print job using, e.g., a protocol referred to herein as a cloud print protocol (CPP). Thus, the cloud print protocol allows the cloud print service to communicate with cloud-aware printer  or legacy printer . Further detail and other aspects of the cloud print protocol are described in more detail, below.","The converted print job may be stored in a data store , illustrated as job store  in . Although illustrated separately in  for the sake of clarity and description, it may be appreciated that job store  may overlap or coincide with the data stores  and  of the registration manager . That is, for example, print jobs of a given user may be stored in conjunction with the user account of the user, and in conjunction with one or more printers registered to that user. As a result, print jobs may be committed to long-term storage, so that, for example, users may locate, identify, and re-print desired print jobs, even if the user later accesses cloud print service  from a different device than was used to originally send a given print job. In storing the print job (e.g., on job store ), it is possible for cloud print service  to generate print data location information specifying the location of the print job, including the associated print data and characteristics of the print job.","Thus, it may be observed that conversion of the print job at least partially occurs at a separate device(s) (e.g., cloud print server , cloud-aware printer , device , or router ) from the device(s) on which the originating application is executing (e.g., device , application server ). In this way, for example, it is possible to formulate and submit a print job at least partially separately from a conversion of the print job into a printer-specific format, and to thereby divorce such conversion from an underlying operating system of the executing application.","A print job router  may be configured to route the converted print job to a designated printer. As noted above, the printer can be designated via a print dialog or via establishment of an NFC connection. Print job router  can further monitor and mediate execution and success\/failure of the print job. Print job router  may thus be responsible for managing and monitoring on-going print jobs from a plurality of users which are designated for a corresponding plurality of printers, as described in detail, below.","In so doing, print job router  may be configured to execute, e.g., with a print client  executing on firmware  of cloud-aware printer . Print client  may communicate with cloud print service , e.g., with print job router  and\/or the registration manager , using the cloud print protocol referenced above.","More specifically, print client  may be configured to register cloud-aware printer  with cloud print service , and to thereby associate the thus-registered printer  with a user of device . Moreover, print client  may be configured to actually drive cloud-aware printer  and thereby execute the desired printing.","In the example of , cloud-aware printer  is illustrated as including print client  within firmware . Firmware , as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art, may represent factory-installed hardware and\/or software which provides designated functions without generally requiring or allowing user modification or configuration (e.g., may utilize read-only memory). Thus, cloud aware printer  may be pre-configured from before a time of purchase to communicate and coordinate with cloud print service , to thereby provide a convenient and enjoyable user experience.","For example, cloud aware printer  may include a network access manager , user input , and a display (or other user output) , which may generally represent conventional components that are not described here in detail except as needed to assist in understanding the operation of system . Of course, cloud-aware printer  also may include other conventional components, which are not discussed here for the sake or clarity and conciseness.","Network access manager  may represent associated hardware and\/or software which enables cloud-aware printer  to communicate over network  with cloud print service . For example, such communication may be conducted wirelessly if cloud-aware printer  is within range of an appropriate wireless network. In other examples, network access manager  may enable a wired connection of cloud-aware printer  to network , e.g., by way of connection to a router such as router .","User input  may represent virtually any sort of keypad, stylus, or other techniques for entering data to cloud-aware printer . Similarly, display  may represent virtually any sort of audio and\/or video display to output information to a user of cloud-aware printer .","In example scenarios, then, a user may purchase cloud-aware printer . Upon powering, cloud-aware printer  may automatically output or identify cloud print service , e.g., by printing a URL or other identifier on paper loaded in a paper tray of cloud-aware printer , or by displaying such information using display . Similarly, cloud-aware printer  may output registration information for itself, e.g., a serial number or other unique identifier.","Then, in one example scenario, the purchaser may use device  or other network device to communicate with cloud print service , e.g., by using a browser to visit a website of cloud print service  provided by cloud print server . The user\/purchaser may then log into his or her user account associated with cloud print service  and be prompted to enter the registration information for cloud-aware printer .","In other example implementations, user input  and display  may similarly be used to communicate directly with cloud print service  using network access manager . For example, upon powering, cloud-aware printer  may automatically connect to cloud print service  using print client  and network access manager , and then use display  to prompt the user\/purchaser to login to cloud print service , to thereby automatically associate cloud-aware printer  as being registered to the user\/purchaser.","In contrast, legacy printer  may not be manufactured to include print client  and\/or other components of cloud-aware printer . For example, legacy printer  may have been manufactured prior to an availability of cloud print service , or simply may have been made without the necessary components to communicate with cloud print service .","in such a case, legacy printer  may be connected in a conventional way to device  (e.g., by USB or other suitable wired or wireless connection). For example, device  may include an operating system , which may be used to host a print client  which is conceptually similar to print client , and which serves as a proxy for legacy printer  to thereby allow legacy printer  to participate in system .","In some implementations, print client\/proxy  may communicate directly with legacy printer  to execute a print job from cloud print service . In other implementations, the operating system  may have a conventional printer driver  installed for legacy printer , in which case system  may leverage some or all of the functionality of the print driver  to drive legacy printer .","Thus, in operation, print client\/proxy  may be configured to register legacy printer  with the registration manager  (printer manager ) of cloud print service , in a similar manner(s) as described above and depending on a presence or absence of capabilities of legacy printer  (e.g., whether legacy printer  includes network access, user input and\/or display components).","Once registered, an application  which may desire to print to legacy printer  may communicate a print job to cloud print service , e.g., in the manner described above with respect to application . As legacy printer  is thus incorporated and integrated into system , it may be appreciated that application  and\/or application  may thus print to legacy printer , as easily as to cloud-aware printer . For example, a user of device  may use application  to execute a print job to legacy printer , even if legacy printer  is remote from device  over the network at the time of the printing.","Similarly, a print client  may be installed as a proxy component on router , as an addition or alternative to the print client , to integrate legacy printer  into system . The print client (proxy)  may thus similarly allow for registration of legacy printer  with cloud print service  and with one or more users (e.g., of device ), and may accept print jobs from cloud print service  which are designated for legacy printer . For example, it is possible for a user of device  to establish an NFC connection with legacy printer  via NFC interface  of device , in order to designate legacy printer  as a printer for a particular print job.","Many features and advantages are provided by system  and variations thereof, as referenced herein and\/or as would be apparent to one of skill in the art. For example, as described, system  facilitates remote printing in a straightforward and easily implementable fashion, because a user need only log in to cloud print service  and register a printer using any device (e.g., personal computer, smartphone or other mobile device, or a printer itself). Then, the user can thereafter login to cloud print service  from any device, anywhere on network , and send a print job to the thus-registered printer from any compatible application, even if the device and printer are remote from one another.","In other example implementations, it is possible to share printers between different users. For example, techniques currently exist for sharing documents in existing cloud-based document processing\/management systems, such as when a first user sends an email to a second user with a link to a document to be shared. With system , such techniques and concepts can be extended to the realm of printing. For example, the first user may send a link referencing a printer to be shared (e.g., referencing or including registration information for the printer), so that the second, receiving user may simply follow the link to associate the identified printer with the second user's cloud print service user account. In these and other scenarios, users may, e.g., print documents directly to a receiving user, or print work documents to a home printer (or vice versa), and otherwise experience the benefits of remote printing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["404","404"]},"In the example of , cloud print service  is illustrated as including a print dialog API , which is in communication with a tickler . The tickler  may be operable to send notification(s) of new print jobs available for a given printer(s).","Then, upon authorization of a user by print dialog API , a list of printers, associated printer capabilities, and current jobs per printer and other status information may be provided to the application user, e.g., by way of a common print dialog , which may be rendered, e.g., using Javascript. Such a print dialog  may, in appearance, resemble conventional print dialogs, except as otherwise set forth herein (e.g., may allow for selection of an available printer and associated print features). In an example of a non-conventional aspect of the common print dialog , the common print dialog  may include a field(s) to allow a user to search and identify a previous\/stored print job that is persistently stored by cloud print service . As noted above, the user can designate a printer for handling the print job by selecting a printer from a list of printers in print dialog , or by establishing an NFC connection with the desired printer.","Print dialog API  may thus provide (e.g., render) the common print dialog  essentially in its entirety for the application user, and thereby provide a common print dialog experience across applications interfacing with cloud print service . As also described, the print dialog API also may simply provide sufficient information for an application developer to construct a third party dialog , which may be different in appearance than the common print dialog , e.g., may have a proprietary appearance associated with a suite of applications provided by the developer\/provider thereof. For example, third party dialog  may provide the appropriate interfaces for establishing an NFC connection with a printer, to designate the printer for printout.","Assuming authorization of the user proceeds, the user may then provide printer selection(s) and associated desired print characteristics, as well as the actual print data. The print data may be expressed in any conventional format, e.g., HTML, PDF, XPS, or an image format such as JPG, to name a few.","The print job may then be received at a job submit API , e.g., from either dialog  or . In some implementations, the print data may be included by reference to remote print data, e.g., by identification of an appropriate print data location information (e.g., a URL). The print data location information can specify the location of the print job in storage. Then, an application data fetcher  may be used to retrieve data to be printed.","Job submit API  may receive the print job in, to give a specific and non-limiting example(s), a hyper-text transfer protocol (HTTP) multi-part request which may include the printer capabilities expressed, e.g., in XPS, as well as a MIME type identifying the content type. Job submit API  may then provide the print job, including the print data and print characteristics, to a format converter . Format converter  operates essentially as described herein with respect to the format converter  of .","As noted above, in a case where the printer is designated by establishing an NFC connection between the device and the printer, it is possible that format converter  may not receive a print job until the NFC connection has been established to designate the printer. Furthermore, format converter  stores the print job, which can include the associated print data and characteristics of the print job, within storage . In storing the print job (e.g., on storage ), it is possible for print data location information to be generated which specifies the location of the print job.","A print client , which may represent any of the print clients ,  and  of , communicates with a job control API  and a job fetch API , to execute the print job. Specifically, the job fetch API  may provide the print job to the print client , e.g., may be used by print client  to fetch the next available job for the specified printer.","Job control API  may be responsible for authorizing print client  as needed, and for receiving updated status information from the printer in question, such as whether the print job has completed or failed. Such status information may also be stored within the storage  in associated with a corresponding print job. Job control API  may include status information including, e.g., whether a print job is currently queued and not yet downloaded to a corresponding print client , or spooled\/downloaded and added to the client side native printer queue (if applicable).","In further examples of the print client as the print client proxy , it may occur that the proxy fetches print jobs in PDF format, along with the user-selected print characteristics represented as XML. Then, the proxy may use a PDF interpreted library to rasterize and print the PDF.","Finally in , a user\/printer register API  is illustrated which is responsible for communicating with print client  to register the user(s) and all associated printers. Such registration information may be communicated using a HTTP multi-part request, and may include identification of the printer along with the printer capabilities (e.g., expressed in XPS), and may be stored in storage  with the various print jobs. Such registration processes and information may occur previously to actual print job executions, or interspersed therewith. In the latter case, for example, the user may seek to execute a print job only to find that all available printers are currently occupied, jammed, or offline. Nonetheless, it would be a simple matter for the user then to register a new printer with cloud print service  and proceed accordingly with the newly-registered printer to execute the desired print job.","Many other examples and variations of the systems and operations of  would be apparent to one skilled in the art. For example, instead of printing to a hardware printer, the system(s) ,  and  or similar systems may be used to print to PDF or other software format.","Many of the above-described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium (also referred to as computer readable medium). When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit(s) (e.g., one or more processors, cores of processors, or other processing units), they cause the processing unit(s) to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include, but are not limited to, CD-ROMs, flash drives, RAM chips, hard drives, EPROMs, etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.","in this specification, the term \u201csoftware\u201d is meant to include firmware residing in read-only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage, which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also, in some implementations, multiple software aspects of the subject disclosure can be implemented as sub-parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software aspects of the subject disclosure. In some implementations, multiple software aspects can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally, any combination of separate programs that together implement a software aspect described here is within the scope of the subject disclosure. In some implementations, the software programs, when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems, define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.","A computer program (also known as a program, software, software application, script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or interpreted languages, declarative or procedural languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, object, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may, hut need not, correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data (e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document), in a single file dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files (e.g., files that store one or more modules, sub programs, or portions of code). A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.","These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, in computer software, firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.","Some implementations include electronic components, such as microprocessors, storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine-readable or computer-readable medium (alternatively referred to as computer-readable storage media, machine-readable media, or machine-readable storage media). Some examples of such computer-readable media include RAM, ROM, read-only compact discs (CD-ROM), recordable compact discs (CD-R), rewritable compact discs (CD-RW), read-only digital versatile discs (e.g., DVD-ROM, dual-layer DVD-ROM), a variety of recordable\/rewritable DVDs (e.g., DVD-RAM, DVD\u2212RW, DVD+RW, etc.), flash memory (e.g., SD cards, mini-SD cards, micro-SD cards, etc.), magnetic and\/or solid state hard drives, read-only and recordable Blu-Ray\u00ae discs, ultra density optical discs, any other optical or magnetic media, and floppy disks. The computer-readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code, such as is produced by a compiler, and files including higher-level code that are executed by a computer, an electronic component, or a microprocessor using an interpreter.","While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi-core processors that execute software, some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits, such as application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). In some implementations, such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.","As used in this specification and any claims of this application, the terms \u201ccomputer\u201d, \u201cserver\u201d, \u201cprocessor\u201d, and \u201cmemory\u201d all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification, the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application, the terms \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d and \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d are entirely restricted to tangible, physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals, wired download signals, and any other ephemeral signals.","To provide for interaction with a user, implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device, e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor, for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device, e.g., a mouse or a trackball, by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback; and input from the user can be received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input. In addition, a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user; for example, by sending web pages to a web browser on a user's client device in response to requests received from the web browser.","Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component, e.g., as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, e.g., an application server, or that includes a front end component, e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification, or any combination of one or more such back end, middleware, or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication, e.g., a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d) and a wide area network (\u201cWAN\u201d), an inter-network the Internet), and peer-to-peer networks (e.g., ad hoc peer-to-peer networks).","The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other. In some embodiments, a server transmits data (e.g., an HTML page) to a client device e.g., for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device). Data generated at the client device (e.g., a result of the user interaction) can be received from the client device at the server.","It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences, it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged, or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example, in certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments, and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.","The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus, the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein, but are to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims, wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean \u201cone and only one\u201d unless specifically so stated, but rather \u201cone or more.\u201d Unless specifically stated otherwise, the term \u201csome\u201d refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine (e.g., his) include the feminine and neuter gender (e.g., her and its) and vice versa. Headings and subheadings, if any, are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject disclosure.","A phrase such as an \u201caspect\u201d does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations, or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a \u201cconfiguration\u201d does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations, or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example or illustration,\u201d Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.","All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover, nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Certain features of the subject technology are set forth in the appended claims. However, for purpose of explanation, several embodiments of the subject technology are set forth in the following figures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
