---
title: Systems and methods for detecting the stockpiling of domain names
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products are provided for detecting the stockpiling of domain names. In one exemplary embodiment, there is provided a method for detecting a status of a domain name. The method may include receiving information related to the domain name from a registrar. The method may include crawling the at least one domain name, wherein the crawling receives first information located on a website associated with the domain name and receives second information related to a registration of the domain name. The method may also include storing the first information and the second information, wherein the crawling is initiated at a first time prior to expiration of the at least one domain name and a second time after expiration of the at least one domain name.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09075886&OS=09075886&RS=09075886
owner: VERISIGN, INC.
number: 09075886
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110413
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for detecting the stockpiling of domain names. More particularly, the present invention relates to systems and methods for detecting changes associated with the domain name by determining if a registrar with which the domain name was originally registered has taken ownership of the domain name and begun \u201cparking\u201d it or whether the domain name has entered the public domain.","If a user wants to register a domain name, the user may contact a registrar to register the domain name. The registrar may send the necessary domain name server (DNS) information to a registry. DNS is part of the Internet infrastructure that may translate readable domain names into Internet Protocol (IP) numbers for establishing TCP\/IP communication over the Internet. DNS may allow users to refer to websites using the domain names (e.g., \u201cwww.example.com\u201d) rather than the numeric IP addresses associated with each website and assigned to computers on the Internet. Each domain name may be made up of a series of character strings separated by dots. In addition, each IP address may be hosted by a corresponding server.","The registry may receive the DNS information, insert the information into a database, and transmit the information in Internet zone files so that domain names can be found by users. The registrar may check the availability of the requested domain name and inform the user if the domain name is available. If the domain name is available, the user may register the domain name for a period of time (e.g., one year). Upon registration, the domain name may be linked to a website. For example, the website \u201cwww.example.com\u201d may be associated with the example.com domain. The domain name may be used to identify computer systems on the Internet.","At the end of the registration period, the user may renew the domain name for another period of time or may cancel the registration. If the user renews, nothing changes, and the user may continue using the domain name. However, if the user does not renew, the registration may expire and other users may obtain the expired domain name.","Entities that sell domain names need to understand how a domain name is used, thereby providing an indication of how a user of a domain name may value the domain name. Accordingly, there is a need to know the status of domain names to determine if a domain name is active or expired, and, if a domain name is expired, if the expired domain name is parked and stockpiled by a registrar. To address these needs, systems and methods are needed to detect the stockpiling of domain names.","In one exemplary embodiment, there is provided a method for detecting the stockpiling of domain names. The method may include receiving information related to the domain name from a registrar. The method may include crawling the at least one domain name, wherein the crawling receives first information located on a website associated with the domain name and receives second information related to a registration of the domain name. The method may also include storing the first information and the second information, wherein the crawling is initiated at a first time prior to expiration of the at least one domain name and a second time after expiration of the at least one domain name.","In another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a computer-readable recording medium storing a computer-executable program which, when executed by a processor, performs a method for detecting a status of a domain name. The method may include receiving information related to the domain name from a registrar. The method may also include crawling the at least one domain name, wherein the crawling receives first information located on a website associated with the domain name and receives second information related to a registration of the domain name. The method may also include storing the first information and the second information, wherein the crawling is initiated at a first time prior to expiration of the at least one domain name and a second time after expiration of the at least one domain name.","In another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a computer system for detecting a status of a domain name, including a computer having memory and a processor. The computer system may include one or more systems that may include data and a detection service in communication with the one or more systems. The detection service may receive information related to the domain name from a registrar. The detection service may crawl the at least one domain name, wherein the crawling receives first information located on a website associated with the domain name and receives second information related to a registration of the domain name. The detection service may store the first information and the second information, wherein the crawling is initiated at a first time prior to expiration of the at least one domain name and a second time after expiration of the at least one domain name.","It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed.","The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar parts. While several exemplary embodiments and features are described herein, modifications, adaptations and other implementations are possible, without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example, substitutions, additions, or modifications may be made to the components illustrated in the drawings, and the exemplary methods described herein may be modified by substituting, reordering, or adding steps to the disclosed methods. Accordingly, the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead, the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.","System Architecture","By way of a non-limiting example,  illustrates a system  in which the features and principles of the present invention may be implemented. The number of components in system  is not limited to what is shown, and other variations in the number of arrangements of components are possible, consistent with embodiments of the invention. The components of  may be implemented through hardware, software, and\/or firmware. System  may include clients -, registrars -, registry , detection service , and network .","Clients -may send a request for a domain name registration to registrars -. Registrars -may check the availability of the requested domain name and send this information to clients -. Registrars -may check this information based on their records, and registrars -may also send a request to registry  to determine the availability of the requested domain name. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that clients -may request the desired domain name from registry  without first requesting the domain name from registrars -","If a requested domain name is available, clients -may register the domain name with registrars -, and registrars -may store information associated with the registered domain name. This information may include, for example, the date of registration of the domain name, the length of registration, the continuity of registration, and the number of times the domain name has changed ownership. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that registry  may also store this information.","Registrars -may include one or more processors, such as computers. Registrars -may each transmit registration information related to domain names to clients -and registry . Registrars -may also submit commands to registry  including create, update, transfer, renew, and delete to perform the desired operations. After receiving the commands from registrars -, registry  may process the commands and store requested domain name information including, for example, the domain name, nameserver, and IP address in database .","Detection service  may be located in registry  and may operate as part of registry . Detection service  may contain one or more databases that store one or more tables of data. Detection service  may be implemented using a combination of hardware, software, and\/or firmware, and may be operable to receive and store data from various clients -and registrars -. For example, detection service  may search for and receive data from clients -and registrars -regarding website and domain name registration information.","Detection service  may be operable to respond to requests for data. One of ordinary skill would appreciate that detection service  may be located separate from registry , and a user of registry  may query detection service  to request data. For example, a user may use registry  to enter a request for data stored at detection service .","Clients -may provide users with an interface to network . By way of example, clients -may be implemented using any device capable of accessing a data network, such as a general purpose computer or personal computer equipped with a modem or other network interface. Clients -may also be implemented in other devices, such as a Blackberry\u2122, Ergo Audrey\u2122, mobile phones (with data access functions), Personal Digital Assistant (\u201cPDA\u201d) with a network connection, IP telephony phone, or generally any device capable of communicating over a data network. Clients -may be associated with one or more webservers that may host a website associated with a domain name. In addition, clients -may be associated with a conventional server that may, for example, host a website, perform nameserver transactions, perform domain name provisioning services, perform domain name resolution services, and communicate with other servers over network .","Network  provides communications between or among the various entities depicted in system . Network  may be a shared, public, or private network, and may encompass a wide area or local area. Network  may be implemented through any suitable combination of wired and\/or wireless communication networks (including Wi-Fi networks, GSM\/GPRS networks, TDMA networks, CDMA networks, Bluetooth networks, or any other wireless networks). By way of example, network  may be implemented through a wide area network (WAN), local area network (LAN), an intranet, and\/or the Internet. Further, the entities of system  may be connected to multiple networks , such as, for example, to a wireless carrier network, a private data network, and the public Internet.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["108","108","202","204","206","208","210","108"]},"Index processor  may be one or more known processing devices, such as, for example, a microprocessor from the Pentium family manufactured by Intel\u2122 or a mainframe-class processor. In an embodiment, index processor  may receive data from clients -and registrars -, process the received data, and may send the processed data to registry .","Based on the received data, index processor  may derive attributes and characteristics about a website accessible through its domain name. For example, index processor  may derive information related to, for example, DNS traffic data, a total number of pages on the website, the content of the website, and a frequency of information update on the website. Index processor  may receive this information from clients -and registrars -","Communication server  may be a web server that provides functionality for receiving traffic over a network, such as the Internet. For example, communication server  may be a web server that a user may access at registry  using a web browser program, such as Safari, Internet Explorer, or Netscape Communicator. In an embodiment, communication server  is operable to receive data and requests for data, pass the requested data to the appropriate party, and provide other features.","Web crawler  may access one or more web sites hosted by clients -by crawling the corresponding domain names. A crawl by web crawler  may be initiated automatically when a user registers a domain name. Web crawler  may initiate a crawl by communicating a request for a specific resource using Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).","In addition, a crawl may be initiated by detection service  at, for example, predetermined or user-defined times after registration of the domain name. After accessing the web site, web crawler  may receive the information contained on the web site and domain name registration information. The domain name registration information may include information related to the location of the domain name in main server records. For example, if client registers a domain name, the location of the domain may correspond to the nameserver associated with client ","At the end of the registration period, if client does not renew registration of the domain name, the domain name may expire, resulting in a change of the location of the domain name and\/or other attributes of the domain name (i.e., it is no longer located at the nameserver associated with client ). Similarly, the location of the domain name may change if client transfers the domain name to a different client (e.g., client ). In addition, if the domain name expires, the entity that registered the domain name for client (e.g., registrar ) may decide to take over control of the domain name by moving the domain name to one of its servers.","Web crawler  may initiate a crawl to determine the information related to any change to the domain name. Based on the results of the crawl, web crawler  may receive information indicating that the location of the domain name has changed from client to, for example, client or registrars -","Analysis module  may receive the information from index processor  and web crawler  and may organize the information. Analysis module  may organize the information by providing a date and time of the domain name registration and any changes in the main server records for the domain name. Analysis module  may store this information is database . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that the information from index processor  and web crawler  may be stored in database  without being processed by analysis module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"106"},"For example, registry  may include components such as a central processing unit (CPU) , a memory , an input\/output (I\/O) device(s) , an application programming interface (API) , and a database  that can be implemented in various ways. For example, an integrated platform (such as a workstation, personal computer, laptop, etc.) may comprise CPU , memory , I\/O devices , API , and database , interconnected by a local bus . In such a configuration, components , , , , and  may connect through a local bus interface.","CPU  may be one or more known processing devices, such as a microprocessor from the Pentium family manufactured by Intel\u2122 or a mainframe-class processor. Memory  may be one or more storage devices configured to store information used by CPU  to perform certain functions, operations, and steps related to embodiments of the present invention. Memory  may be a magnetic, semiconductor, tape, optical, or other type of storage device. In one embodiment, memory  includes one or more software application programs  that, when executed by CPU , perform various processes consistent with the present invention.","Methods, systems, and articles of manufacture consistent with the present invention are not limited to programs configured to perform dedicated tasks. For example, memory  may be configured with a program  that performs several functions consistent with the invention when executed by CPU . Alternatively, CPU  may execute one or more programs located remotely from registry . For example, registry  may access one or more remote programs that, when executed, perform functions related to embodiments of the present invention. The configuration and number of programs implementing processes consistent with the invention are not critical to the invention.","Memory  may be also be configured with an operating system (not shown) that performs several functions well known in the art when executed by CPU . By way of example, the operating system may be Microsoft Windows\u2122, Unix\u2122 Linux\u2122, an Apple\u2122 operating system such as MAC OSX\u2122, Personal Digital Assistant operating system such as Microsoft CE\u2122, or other operating system. The choice of operating system, and even the use of an operating system, is not critical to the invention.","I\/O device(s)  may comprise one or more input\/output devices that allow data to be received and\/or transmitted by registry . For example, I\/O device  may include one or more input devices, such as a network connection, keyboard, touch screen, mouse, microphone, disk reader, and the like, that enable data to be input or received from a user. Further, I\/O device  may include one or more output devices, such as a network connection, display screen, printer, speaker devices, and the like, that enable data to be output or presented to a user. The configuration and number of input and\/or output devices incorporated in I\/O device  are not critical to the invention.","API  is an interface used by registry  to execute user requests. API  may be used in conjunction with I\/O device  to define, for example, monitoring parameters, events, and notifications with respect to domain name registration and website information. In addition, API  may query and receive information regarding domain name registration and website information in response to information received at I\/O device . API  may also update information stored in database .","Database  may comprise one or more databases that store information and are accessed and managed through system . By way of example, database  may be an Oracle\u2122 database, a Sybase\u2122 database, or other relational database. As illustrated in , database  may located within registry . However, the information stored in database  may also be located in database .","Flowchart",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":"400"},"Registry  may receive information from one or more clients -and registrars -(step ). The information received by registry  may include, for example, the date of registration of the domain name, the length of registration, the website information corresponding to the domain name. This information may also be received based on crawling the domain names of clients -and registrars -using web crawler . For example, detection service  may provide instructions to web crawler  to crawl websites associated with domain names at, for example, predetermined or user-defined times after registration of the domain name (step ). After accessing the website, web crawler  may receive the information contained on the website and domain name registration information (step ).","After web crawler  receives that information, this information may be stored the data in database  (step ). This information may also be stored in database  of registry . If any changes occur in the information contained in the websites, web crawler  may detect this change by receiving the new information during one or more subsequent crawls of the website. The different types of information contained on the website may be received and stored in database  along with a date and time stamp that indicates when the information was received.","In addition to receiving website information, web crawler  may also crawl and receive information related to changes (if any) in the main server records associated with the domain name and corresponding website. As stated above, a user of a domain name may register the domain name for a period of time (e.g., one year). At the expiration of the one year registration period, the user may renew registration or let the registration expire. If the user renews registration of the domain name, no change in the associated web server may occur, and the user maintains registration.","However, the registration of a domain name may change. For example, a registered user of a domain name may sell the domain name to a different user. If this occurs, a change in the ownership of the domain name may occur, and the subsequent user that purchases the domain name may operate the website. Based on this transition in ownership, the domain name of the website may no longer be hosted by first user's web server. Instead, the purchasing user may host the domain name on its web server, and this may result in a change in the associated web server. Therefore, when web crawler  crawls the website, web crawler  may receive the information regarding the change in the web server corresponding to the website and domain name. Accordingly, web crawler  may receive information related to any changes in the content of the website in addition to any changes in the server records corresponding to the website.","In addition to crawling websites at predetermined or user-defined times, web crawler  may also crawl websites based on the registration status of the website. For example, web crawler  may crawl a website at a first time, T, while the website is registered to a user. As stated above, web crawler  may receive the information contained on the website and the web server information corresponding to the registered user of the website.","At a second time, T, upon expiration of the website (e.g., at the end of the one year registration period), the user may be provided with a grace period of time that provides the user with additional time to determine if it wants to renew registration of the website and domain name. For example, the grace period may be 45 days. However, one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that any grace period of time may be used. During the grace period, web crawler  may crawl the website and receive the information contained on the website and send this information to database  for storage. As stated above, a time and date stamp may also be stored with this information in database . In addition to receiving the website information, web crawler  may also receive web server information corresponding to the registered user of the website, and this information may also be stored with an associated time and date stamp (step ).","At a third time, T, upon expiration of the grace period, web crawler  may initiate another crawl of the website and receive the information contained on the website and send this information to database  for storage. As stated above, a time and date stamp may also be stored with this information in database . In addition to receiving the website information, web crawler  may also receive web server information corresponding to the registered user of the website, and this information may also be stored with an associated time and date stamp.","At this time, if the registered user does not renew registration of the domain name, registrars -may take control of the expired domain name by keeping the domain name active. If registrars -keep the domain name, it may host the domain name on one of its servers and may collect any ad revenue that may be generated from the domain name. By keeping the domain name, registrars -may be viewed as \u201cparking\u201d the domain name. Registrars -may \u201cpark\u201d a domain name, thereby keeping the domain name and preventing it from entering the public domain, if it believes that the domain name may be valuable to the same user or another user at a later time. Alternatively, registrars -may allow the domain name to expire, thereby putting the domain name back into the public domain for others to register at a later time.","As stated above, web crawler  may traverse various websites over a predetermined period of time and may compare the information on a given website at different points in time. For example, web crawler  may visit a particular website on day 1. The domain for this website may expire on day 10, and may then enter the 45-day grace period for renewal. Web crawler  may visit the website again on day 20, which is within the grace period. Similarly, web crawler  may visit the website on day 60, which is after the end of the grace period.","By visiting the website prior to expiration, during the grace period after expiration, and post-expiration, web crawler  may copy the information located on the website during each visit, and may compare the information received at different points in time to analyze any changes in the information. Web crawler  may determine whether any such changes in information available on the website are indicative of the domain name associated with the website being \u201cparked\u201d by a registrar (step ).","In addition, web crawler  may determine which servers host the website domain and may determine any changes in the servers used for hosting. For example, if a domain name expires, the domain name may be hosted by servers owned or operated by the registrar rather than by a service provider that previously hosted the domain name before its registration expired. Determining whether a domain name is being hosted by a different server may also be determined by examining changes in DNS records associated with the domain name, such as changes in IP addresses associated with the domain name. By detecting hosting or IP address changes associated with the domain name, web crawler  may determine if the registrar with which the domain name was originally registered has taken ownership of the domain name and begun \u201cparking\u201d it or whether the domain name has entered the public domain.","While certain features and embodiments of the invention have been described, other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments of the invention disclosed herein. Furthermore, although aspects of embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums, one skilled in the art will appreciate that these aspects can also be stored on or read from other types of tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media, such as secondary storage devices, like hard disks, floppy disks, or a CD-ROM, or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further, the steps of the disclosed methods may be modified in various ways, including by reordering steps and\/or inserting or deleting steps, without departing from the principles of the invention.","It is intended, therefore, that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims and their full scope of equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this disclosure, illustrate various embodiments and aspects of the present invention. In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
