---
title: Systems and methods for restoring multi-tier applications
abstract: A computer-implemented method for restoring multi-tier applications may include (1) identifying a request to restore a multi-tier application from a backup of the multi-tier application, the multi-tier application including a plurality of individually relocatable components, (2) in response to the request, retrieving a configuration data store from the backup, the configuration data store including a topology of the plurality of individually relocatable components, (3) parsing the configuration data store to extract at least a portion of the topology from the configuration data store, and (4) restoring at least a portion of the multi-tier application based on the portion of the topology. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650160&OS=08650160&RS=08650160
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08650160
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111230
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["In the digital age, organizations increasingly rely on digitally-stored data. To protect against data loss, an organization may use a backup system to back up important data.","Due to increasingly complex information technology infrastructures, backup and restoration systems may also take the configuration of applications into account in order to correctly restore the applications. For example, a multi-tier application (e.g., MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT) may include multiple components, and restoring the multi-tier application may require information about the relationships between these components. Accordingly, a traditional backup system may use an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d) of the multi-tier application at the time of backup to access this information and then include the information with the backup.","Unfortunately, the activities of traditional backup systems may sometimes consume computing resources to the point of interfering with the performance of primary applications. Accordingly, communicating with a multi-tier application at the time of backup and thereby potentially increasing the load on a primary server may cause undesired performance degradation of the multi-tier application. Therefore, the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for additional and improved systems and methods for restoring multi-tier applications.","As will be described in greater detail below, the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for restoring multi-tier applications by extracting topological information from configuration data stores of backed up multi-tier applications at restoration time. In one example, a computer-implemented method for restoring multi-tier applications may include (1) identifying a request to restore a multi-tier application from a backup of the multi-tier application, the multi-tier application including a plurality of individually relocatable components, (2) in response to the request, retrieving a configuration data store from the backup, the configuration data store including a topology of the plurality of individually relocatable components, (3) parsing the configuration data store to extract at least a portion of the topology from the configuration data store, and (4) restoring at least a portion of the multi-tier application based on the portion of the topology.","In some examples, a first component of the multi-tier application may have been located on a first server of a server farm at a time of the backup. Likewise, a second component of the multi-tier application may have been located on a second server of the server farm at the time of the backup. In these examples, the portion of the topology may represent the first component on the first server and the second component on the second server. Additionally, in these examples, the server farm may include a plurality of virtual machines. Accordingly, the first server may include a first virtual machine and the second server may include a second virtual machine.","In some embodiments, parsing the configuration data store may include retrieving topological data from the configuration data store and generating a relationship map of the plurality of individually relocatable components based on the topological data. In these embodiments, restoring the portion of the multi-tier application may be based on the relationship map.","In some examples, the topology may be accessible from the configuration data store via an application programming interface of the multi-tier application. In these examples, parsing the configuration data store may entail parsing the configuration data store without using the application programming interface.","In at least one example, parsing the configuration data store may include parsing the configuration data store while the configuration data store is unmounted as a database. Additionally or alternatively, parsing the configuration data store may include parsing the configuration data store after the request. In some embodiments, restoring the portion of the multi-tier application may include restoring a single component from the plurality of individually relocatable components instead of every component from the plurality of individually relocatable components.","In one embodiment, a system for implementing the above-described method may include (1) an identification module programmed to identify a request to restore a multi-tier application from a backup of the multi-tier application, the multi-tier application including a plurality of individually relocatable components, (2) a retrieval module programmed to, in response to the request, retrieve a configuration data store from the backup, the configuration data store including a topology of the plurality of individually relocatable components, (3) a parsing module programmed to parse the configuration data store to extract at least a portion of the topology from the configuration data store, and (4) a restoration module programmed to restore at least a portion of the multi-tier application based on the portion of the topology. The system may also include at least one processor configured to execute the identification module, the retrieval module, the parsing module, and the restoration module.","In some examples, the above-described method may be encoded as computer-readable instructions on a computer-readable-storage medium. For example, a computer-readable-storage medium may include one or more computer-executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing device, may cause the computing device to (1) identify a request to restore a multi-tier application from a backup of the multi-tier application, the multi-tier application including a plurality of individually relocatable components, (2) in response to the request, retrieve a configuration data store from the backup, the configuration data store including a topology of the plurality of individually relocatable components, (3) parse the configuration data store to extract at least a portion of the topology from the configuration data store, and (4) restore at least a portion of the multi-tier application based on the portion of the topology.","As will be explained in greater detail below, by extracting topological information from configuration data stores of backed up multi-tier applications at restoration time, the systems and methods described herein may restore multi-tier applications without burdening and, therefore, potentially impacting the performance of the multi-tier applications at the time of backup. Furthermore, in some examples these systems and methods may facilitate the granular restoration of multi-tier applications.","Features from any of the above-mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments, features, and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.","Throughout the drawings, identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar, but not necessarily identical, elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However, the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather, the instant disclosure covers all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.","The following will provide, with reference to , , and , detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for restoring multi-tier applications. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer-implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . In addition, detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with , respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","100","104","100","106"]},"In addition, and as will be described in greater detail below, exemplary system  may include a parsing module  programmed to parse the configuration data store to extract at least a portion of the topology from the configuration data store. Exemplary system  may also include a restoration module  programmed to restore at least a portion of the multi-tier application based on the portion of the topology. Although illustrated as separate elements, one or more of modules  in  may represent portions of a single module or application.","In certain embodiments, one or more of modules  in  may represent one or more software applications or programs that, when executed by a computing device, may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example, and as will be described in greater detail below, one or more of modules  may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices, such as the devices illustrated in  (e.g., computing device , server farm , and\/or backup server ), computing system  in , and\/or portions of exemplary network architecture  in . One or more of modules  in  may also represent all or portions of one or more special-purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.","Exemplary system  in  may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example, all or a portion of exemplary system  may represent portions of exemplary system  in . As shown in , system  may include a computing device  in communication with a server farm  and a backup server  via a network . For example, computing device  may be configured restore at least a portion of a multi-tier application from backup server  to server farm .","In one embodiment, identification module , retrieval module , parsing module , and\/or restoration module  from  may, when executed by at least one processor of computing device , facilitate computing device  in restoring multi-tier applications. For example, and as will be described in greater detail below, one or more of modules  may cause computing device  to (1) identify a request (e.g., a request ) to restore a multi-tier application from a backup (e.g., a backup ) of the multi-tier application, the multi-tier application including a plurality of individually relocatable components, (2) in response to the request, retrieve a configuration data store (e.g., a configuration data store ) from the backup, the configuration data store including a topology of the plurality of individually relocatable components, (3) parse the configuration data store to extract at least a portion of the topology (e.g., a topology ) from the configuration data store, and (4) restore at least a portion of the multi-tier application based on the portion of the topology (e.g., restore at least a portion of the multi-tier application from backup  to server farm  based on topology ).","Computing device  generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer-executable instructions. Examples of computing device  include, without limitation, laptops, desktops, servers, cellular phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), multimedia players, embedded systems, combinations of one or more of the same, exemplary computing system  in , or any other suitable computing device.","Server farm  generally represents any type or form of computing devices that are capable of executing one or more components of multi-tier applications. Examples of server farm  include, without limitation, application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and\/or run certain software applications.","Backup server  generally represents any type or form of computing device that is capable of processing, storing, accessing, and\/or retrieving backup data. Examples of backup server  include, without limitation, backup application servers and backup database servers.","Network  generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network  include, without limitation, an intranet, a wide area network (WAN), a local area network (LAN), a personal area network (PAN), the Internet, power line communications (PLC), a cellular network (e.g., a GSM Network), exemplary network architecture  in , or the like. Network  may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment, network  may facilitate communication between computing device  and server farm .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["300","100","200","510","600"]},"As illustrated in , at step  one or more of the systems described herein may identify a request to restore a multi-tier application from a backup of the multi-tier application, the multi-tier application including a plurality of individually relocatable components. For example, at step  identification module  may, as part of computing device  in , identify request  to restore a multi-tier application from backup .","As used herein, the phrase \u201cmulti-tier application\u201d generally refers to any application with independently executable, locatable, and\/or configurable components which, in combination, may provide a service. In some examples, each component of the multi-tier application may include a separate application. As used herein, the phrase \u201cindividually relocatable component\u201d may refer to any component of a multi-tier application that may be installed, configured, and\/or executed separately from other components of the multi-tier application. For example, a multi-tier application may include one or more database components, one or more business logic components, and\/or one or more presentation components. In this example, the presentation component may present a user interface for the multi-tier application. The presentation component may communicate with the business logic component to process service requests and the business logic component may communicate with the database component to store and\/or retrieve data. As will be described in greater detail below, in some examples, one or more components within the plurality of individually relocatable components may execute on different computing systems.","In at least one example, the multi-tier application may include a content management system. As used herein, the term \u201ccontent management system\u201d may refer to any system capable of providing one or more views and\/or interfaces for a collection of data. For example, a content management system may provide document checkout services, shared contacts, formatted views of information from a database, collaborative editing services, etc. For example, the multi-tier application may include MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT. Accordingly, the multi-tier application may include a variety of components such as a web frontend, a query service, an indexing service, a spreadsheet calculation service, a content database service, etc.","As mentioned earlier, the individually relocatable components of the multi-tier application may be configured to execute on different computing systems (e.g., at the time of backup). For example, a first component of the multi-tier application may have been located on a first server of a server farm at a time of the backup, and a second component of the multi-tier application may have been located on a second server of the server farm at the time of the backup. As used herein, the phrase \u201cserver farm\u201d may refer to any collection and\/or cluster of computing devices. In some examples, one or more servers within a server farm may communicate with one or more additional servers within the server farm as a part of the multi-tier application. In some examples, the server farm may include a plurality of virtual machines. In this example, the first server may include a first virtual machine and the second server may include a second virtual machine. Accordingly, in some examples the plurality of virtual machines may operate under a single hypervisor to constitute the server farm. As used herein, the phrase \u201cvirtual machine\u201d generally refers to a computing system platform that may not have direct correspondence to hardware of an underlying host machine. For example, hardware of a host system may be abstracted to a virtual machine using a hypervisor or other virtualization software. A virtual machine may run a guest operating system and\/or various other software applications.","The request to restore the multi-tier application may include any of a variety of requests. In some examples, the request to restore the multi-tier application may include a request to restore a portion (e.g., a component) of the multi-tier application. Additionally or alternatively, the request to restore the multi-tier application may include a request to prepare the multi-tier application for restoration. For example, the request to restore the multi-tier application may include a request to present information in a user interface to facilitate the restoration of at least a portion of the multi-tier application.","Identification module  may identify the request in any suitable manner. For example, identification module  may receive the request from a user interface. Additionally or alternatively, identification module  may receive the request as a message and\/or instruction from a restoration system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","410","420","430","412","422","432","302","104","412"]},"Returning to , at step  one or more of the systems described herein may, in response to the request, retrieve a configuration data store from the backup, the configuration data store including a topology of the plurality of individually relocatable components. For example, at step  retrieval module  may, as part of computing device  in , in response to request , retrieve configuration data store  from backup .","As used herein, the phrase \u201cconfiguration data store\u201d may refer to any collection of data used by the multi-tier application to store information about the configuration of the multi-tier application. For example, the configuration data store may store information about the topology of the multi-tier application and\/or the relationship between one or more of the individually relocatable components of the multi-tier application. In at least one example, the configuration data store may include a database file. In some examples, the configuration data store may include data native to the multi-tier application (e.g., data generated, maintained, and\/or accessed by the multi-tier application for the operation and\/or configuration of the multi-tier application).","As used herein, the term \u201ctopology\u201d as applied to a multi-tier application may refer to any information relating to a location of one or more components of the multi-tier application, an identifier of one or more components of the multi-tier application, a relationship between two or more components of the multi-tier application, and\/or a dependency between two or more components of the multi-tier application.","Retrieval module  may retrieve the configuration data store from the backup in any suitable manner. For example, retrieval module  may identify a database file designated as a configuration database file for the multi-tier application. Retrieval module  may then request a copy of the database file from the backup of the multi-tier application.","Returning to , at step  one or more of the systems described herein may parse the configuration data store to extract at least a portion of the topology from the configuration data store. For example, at step  parsing module  may, as part of computing device  in , parse configuration data store  to extract topology  from configuration data store . Using  as an example, at step  parsing module  may extract a topology .","The topology may represent any of a variety of configurations of the multi-tier application. For example, as mentioned earlier, in some examples, a first component of the multi-tier application may have been located on a first server of a server farm at a time of the backup, and a second component of the multi-tier application may have been located on a second server of the server farm at the time of the backup. In these examples, the portion of the topology may represent the first component on the first server and the second component on the second server.","In some examples, parsing module  may retrieve topological data from the configuration data store and then generate a relationship map of the plurality of relocatable components based on the topological data. For example, the configuration data store may store information sufficient to indicate and\/or reconstruct the topology of the multi-tier application. Parsing module  may therefore gather the relevant information (e.g., identifiers of components of the multi-tier application, locations of the components, dependencies between the components, etc.) and construct a relationship map based on the relevant information. In some examples, parsing module  may generate a relationship map representing only a portion of the topology of the multi-tier application. For example, parsing module  may identify, within the request, a portion of the multi-tier application to be restored. Parsing module  may then parse the configuration data store only for data relevant to the portion of the multi-tier application to be restored.","Parsing module  may parse the configuration data store in any of a variety of ways. In some examples, the topology may be accessible from the configuration data store via an application programming interface of the multi-tier application. Nevertheless, in these examples parsing module  may parse the configuration data store without using the application programming interface. For example, parsing module  may parse the configuration data store without interaction with the multi-tier application (e.g., either at the time of backup or at the time of restoration). As used herein, the phrase \u201capplication programming interface\u201d may refer to any interface whereby an application (e.g., the multi-tier application) communicates with another application. For example, the application programming interface may include a specification and\/or interface for a remote procedure call, a query-response based service, or the like.","As mentioned earlier, in some examples the configuration data store may include a database file. In some examples, parsing module  may parse the configuration data store while the configuration data store is unmounted as a database. For example, parsing module  may directly read from the database file.","Parsing module  may parse the configuration data store in any suitable context. For example, parsing module  may parse the configuration data store after the request. In this example, after one or more of the systems described herein receives the request to perform a restoration operation for the multi-tier application, parsing module  may parse the configuration data store in order to gather information for effectively and efficiently performing the restoration operation.","Returning to , at step  one or more of the systems described herein may restore at least a portion of the multi-tier application based on the portion of the topology. For example, at step  restoration module  may, as part of computing device  in , restore at least a portion of the multi-tier application from backup  to server farm  based on topology . Using  as an example, at step  restoration module  may restore database component  to server  (e.g., preserving a relationship between database component  and application component ) based on topology .","As mentioned earlier, in some examples one or more of the systems described herein may generate a relationship map based on topological data retrieved from the configuration data store. In these examples, restoration module  may restore the portion of the multi-tier application based on the relationship map. For example, restoration module  may restore the portion of the multi-tier application while preserving the relationship between two or more components of the multi-tier application (e.g., by configuring components of the multi-tier application to correctly reference each other based on the relationship map).","In some examples, restoration module  may restore the portion of the multi-tier application by restoring a single component from the plurality of individually relocatable components instead of every component from the plurality of individually relocatable components. For example, by accessing the portion of the topology retrieved from the configuration data store, restoration module  may correctly perform a granular restoration of the multi-tier application. In some examples, this may allow restoration module  to separately restore components of the multi-tier application as needed. Additionally or alternatively, this may allow restoration module  to restore components in modified configurations (e.g., to alternate locations within a server farm).","As explained above, by extracting topological information from configuration data stores of backed up multi-tier applications at restoration time, the systems and methods described herein may restore multi-tier applications without burdening and, therefore, potentially impacting the performance of the multi-tier applications at the time of backup. Furthermore, in some examples these systems and methods may facilitate the granular restoration of multi-tier applications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","510","510"]},"Computing system  broadly represents any single or multi-processor computing device or system capable of executing computer-readable instructions. Examples of computing system  include, without limitation, workstations, laptops, client-side terminals, servers, distributed computing systems, handheld devices, or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration, computing system  may include at least one processor  and a system memory .","Processor  generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments, processor  may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor  to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and\/or illustrated herein.","System memory  generally represents any type or form of volatile or non-volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and\/or other computer-readable instructions. Examples of system memory  include, without limitation, random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), flash memory, or any other suitable memory device. Although not required, in certain embodiments computing system  may include both a volatile memory unit (such as, for example, system memory ) and a non-volatile storage device (such as, for example, primary storage device , as described in detail below). In one example, one or more of modules  from  may be loaded into system memory .","In certain embodiments, exemplary computing system  may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor  and system memory . For example, as illustrated in , computing system  may include a memory controller , an Input\/Output (I\/O) controller , and a communication interface , each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure  generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure  include, without limitation, a communication bus (such as an ISA, PCI, PCIe, or similar bus) and a network.","Memory controller  generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example, in certain embodiments memory controller  may control communication between processor , system memory , and I\/O controller  via communication infrastructure .","I\/O controller  generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and\/or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example, in certain embodiments I\/O controller  may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system , such as processor , system memory , communication interface , display adapter , input interface , and storage interface .","Communication interface  broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system  and one or more additional devices. For example, in certain embodiments communication interface  may facilitate communication between computing system  and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface  include, without limitation, a wired network interface (such as a network interface card), a wireless network interface (such as a wireless network interface card), a modem, and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment, communication interface  may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network, such as the Internet. Communication interface  may also indirectly provide such a connection through, for example, a local area network (such as an Ethernet network), a personal area network, a telephone or cable network, a cellular telephone connection, a satellite data connection, or any other suitable connection.","In certain embodiments, communication interface  may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system  and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include, without limitation, SCSI host adapters, USB host adapters, IEEE 1394 host adapters, SATA and eSATA host adapters, ATA and PATA host adapters, Fibre Channel interface adapters, Ethernet adapters, or the like. Communication interface  may also allow computing system  to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example, communication interface  may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.","As illustrated in , computing system  may also include at least one display device  coupled to communication infrastructure  via a display adapter . Display device  generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly, display adapter  generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics, text, and other data from communication infrastructure  (or from a frame buffer, as known in the art) for display on display device .","As illustrated in , exemplary computing system  may also include at least one input device  coupled to communication infrastructure  via an input interface . Input device  generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input, either computer or human generated, to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device  include, without limitation, a keyboard, a pointing device, a speech recognition device, or any other input device.","As illustrated in , exemplary computing system  may also include a primary storage device  and a backup storage device  coupled to communication infrastructure  via a storage interface . Storage devices  and  generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and\/or other computer-readable instructions. For example, storage devices  and  may be a magnetic disk drive (e.g., a so-called hard drive), a solid state drive, a floppy disk drive, a magnetic tape drive, an optical disk drive, a flash drive, or the like. Storage interface  generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices  and  and other components of computing system .","In certain embodiments, storage devices  and  may be configured to read from and\/or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software, data, or other computer-readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include, without limitation, a floppy disk, a magnetic tape, an optical disk, a flash memory device, or the like. Storage devices  and  may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software, data, or other computer-readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example, storage devices  and  may be configured to read and write software, data, or other computer-readable information. Storage devices  and  may also be a part of computing system  or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.","Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely, all of the components and devices illustrated in  need not be present to practice the embodiments described and\/or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system  may also employ any number of software, firmware, and\/or hardware configurations. For example, one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program (also referred to as computer software, software applications, computer-readable instructions, or computer control logic) on a computer-readable-storage medium. The phrase \u201ccomputer-readable-storage medium\u201d generally refers to any form of device, carrier, or medium capable of storing or carrying computer-readable instructions. Examples of computer-readable-storage media include, without limitation, transmission-type media, such as carrier waves, and physical media, such as magnetic-storage media (e.g., hard disk drives and floppy disks), optical-storage media (e.g., CD- or DVD-ROMs), electronic-storage media (e.g., solid-state drives and flash media), and other distribution systems.","The computer-readable-storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer-readable-storage medium may then be stored in system memory  and\/or various portions of storage devices  and . When executed by processor , a computer program loaded into computing system  may cause processor  to perform and\/or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and\/or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively, one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and\/or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and\/or hardware. For example, computing system  may be configured as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","610","620","630","640","645","650","600","600"]},"Client systems , , and  generally represent any type or form of computing device or system, such as exemplary computing system  in . Similarly, servers  and  generally represent computing devices or systems, such as application servers or database servers, configured to provide various database services and\/or run certain software applications. Network  generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including, for example, an intranet, a wide area network (WAN), a local area network (LAN), a personal area network (PAN), or the Internet. In one example, client systems , , and\/or  and\/or servers  and\/or  may include all or a portion of system  from .","As illustrated in , one or more storage devices ()-(N) may be directly attached to server . Similarly, one or more storage devices ()-(N) may be directly attached to server . Storage devices ()-(N) and storage devices ()-(N) generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and\/or other computer-readable instructions. In certain embodiments, storage devices ()-(N) and storage devices ()-(N) may represent network-attached storage (NAS) devices configured to communicate with servers  and  using various protocols, such as NFS, SMB, or CIFS.","Servers  and  may also be connected to a storage area network (SAN) fabric . SAN fabric  generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric  may facilitate communication between servers  and  and a plurality of storage devices ()-(N) and\/or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric  may also facilitate, via network  and servers  and , communication between client systems , , and  and storage devices ()-(N) and\/or intelligent storage array  in such a manner that devices ()-(N) and array  appear as locally attached devices to client systems , , and . As with storage devices ()-(N) and storage devices ()-(N), storage devices ()-(N) and intelligent storage array  generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and\/or other computer-readable instructions.","In certain embodiments, and with reference to exemplary computing system  of , a communication interface, such as communication interface  in , may be used to provide connectivity between each client system , , and  and network . Client systems , , and  may be able to access information on server  or  using, for example, a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems , , and  to access data hosted by server , server , storage devices ()-(N), storage devices ()-(N), storage devices ()-(N), or intelligent storage array . Although  depicts the use of a network (such as the Internet) for exchanging data, the embodiments described and\/or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network-based environment.","In at least one embodiment, all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server , server , storage devices ()-(N), storage devices ()-(N), storage devices ()-(N), intelligent storage array , or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program, stored in server , run by server , and distributed to client systems , , and  over network .","As detailed above, computing system  and\/or one or more components of network architecture  may perform and\/or be a means for performing, either alone or in combination with other elements, one or more steps of an exemplary method for restoring multi-tier applications.","While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams, flowcharts, and examples, each block diagram component, flowchart step, operation, and\/or component described and\/or illustrated herein may be implemented, individually and\/or collectively, using a wide range of hardware, software, or firmware (or any combination thereof) configurations. In addition, any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.","In some examples, all or a portion of exemplary system  in  may represent portions of a cloud-computing or network-based environment. Cloud-computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud-based services (e.g., software as a service, platform as a service, infrastructure as a service, etc.) may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud-based computing environment.","The process parameters and sequence of steps described and\/or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example, while the steps illustrated and\/or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order, these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and\/or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.","While various embodiments have been described and\/or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems, one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms, regardless of the particular type of computer-readable-storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script, batch, or other executable files that may be stored on a computer-readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments, these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.","In addition, one or more of the modules described herein may transform data, physical devices, and\/or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example, one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a computing system into a system for restoring multi-tier applications. As another example, one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a computing system into a system for executing a restored portion of a multi-tier application.","The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.","Unless otherwise noted, the terms \u201ca\u201d or \u201can,\u201d as used in the specification and claims, are to be construed as meaning \u201cat least one of.\u201d In addition, for ease of use, the words \u201cincluding\u201d and \u201chaving,\u201d as used in the specification and claims, are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word \u201ccomprising.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings illustrate a number of exemplary embodiments and are a part of the specification. Together with the following description, these drawings demonstrate and explain various principles of the instant disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
