---
title: Pages: hub structure for related pages
abstract: Pages are created in a social network for a topic of interest and are organized and connected to each other based on related topics or categories. Relationships between parent pages and child pages are created based on the same or related topic of interest. Pages in the same category can also be connected. Information is shared among related pages in the social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129259&OS=09129259&RS=09129259
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09129259
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Overview"],"p":["1. Field","This disclosure relates generally to structuring and connecting pages in a social networking environment.","2. Description of the Related Art","Web pages in a social network can be dedicated to a topic of interest, such as a brand or product, an activity, a public figure or a celebrity, a business, or a location. Users can create and manage pages in the social network. A user can create a page by selecting a topic of interest and adding information to the page about the topic. Users can also check-in to a location and by doing so, create a page for the location in the social network. For instance, a user can check-in at a local Starbucks coffee shop and create a page for that particular Starbucks location. Other users can create different pages for various Starbucks locations.","Pages can be created that relate to the same topic of interest, such as a product, business, or public figure. Conventionally, pages with similar content or topic of interest are not connected to each other or related in the social network. Moreover, each time a page is created, new information must be submitted, such as the name and details about the business, product, or location.","It can also be confusing for users when searching through multiple pages for the same or related topics of interest. If a user is searching for a page for a business, it can be difficult to determine which page is the main page or which one is authentic among multiple pages created for the same business. Also, if a company has numerous locations, a user can become confused as to which page is the central business page for the company and which pages are for individual locations.","Pages are created that are dedicated to a topic of interest. Connections are established among related pages in the social networking system. When a page is created, one or more related pages are identified and connected to the new page. A related page that is designated as the central or main page for a topic of interest is called the parent page. The parent page can be connected to child pages that have the same topic of interest but are intended for individual locations, products, businesses, sub-groups, or other related sub-topics. Child pages can also be connected to each other. Hierarchies of parent and child relationships can be formed, and pages can also be grouped and connected based on similar categories. The connections form an organizational hub structure of pages in the social network. Information can be shared among related pages within the hub structure.","The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.","Described embodiments provide systems, methods, and computer readable storage media for connecting and structuring pages in an online social network.","An online social network provides users a way to connect and communicate with other users. Social networks allow users to establish relationships or connections with others and share information in a variety of useful ways. A user is a person who has an account in the social network and establishes connections with other users, groups, or organizations via the social network.","Pages in an online social network are dedicated to a topic of interest. A topic of interest can include, for example, a business or company, a place of interest or a geographic location, a brand or a product, a private or public figure, a form of entertainment (e.g., music, sports, activities, movies, etc.), a cause or a community, or any other category. The page provides a forum for users who have a collective interest in the topic.","An administrator (\u201cadmin\u201d) is a type of user who can create and\/or manage the page. The admin can control the content and look of the page. In some embodiments, a user with an account in the social network can create and\/or manage a page. In other embodiments, a user who represents a corporate or business entity, group, or organization can create and manage a page.","On a given page, users can post comments, pictures, links, videos, media, or other content on the page. Users can also add comments or an expression of interest (\u201clike\u201d) to other posts on the page. For instance, a user can \u201clike\u201d another user's comment or \u201clike\u201d a page. When a user \u201clikes\u201d a page, he or she joins a community of other users who like the topic of interest and are connected to the page. A page can also include text, comments, photos, advertisements, logos or trademarks, location information, product information, marketing materials, URL links, information about deals or promotions, other related products, or upcoming events, etc.","Multiple pages can be created for a topic of interest. A page can be created for various locations of a business. For example, a page can be created for each of the over 17,000 Starbucks stores in the world. In another example, a page can be created for different products from the same company (e.g., Cherry Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, etc.) or various sub-groups of a larger group or community (e.g., San Francisco Democratic Party, Chicago Democratic Party, etc.). Numerous pages can also be created by users who have an interest in a public figure, sporting activity or sports team, musician or entertainer, or other popular topic of interest (e.g., multiple fan pages for Justin Bieber created by different users).","System Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","101","110","120"]},"The network  represents the communication pathway between the server  and the user device . In one embodiment, the network  is the Internet and uses standard communications technologies and\/or protocols. The network  can also utilize dedicated, custom, or private communications links that are not necessarily part of the Internet. The network  may comprise any combination of local area and\/or wide area networks, using both wired and wireless communication systems.","The user device  can be a desktop computer, laptop computer, portable computer, personal digital assistant (PDA), smart phone, or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. A plurality of user devices  can be configured to communicate via the network .","The server  comprises a pages database , an action log , an edge database , a page creation module , a page structure module , a page permissions module , a page location module , and a data transfer module .","The pages database  stores data about each page in the social network. The pages database  stores data about the content and layout of a page, including photos, links, objects, or posts that are associated with and displayed on the page. The pages database  can also store information about the location, number of check-ins or likes, number of visits, or number of tips or comments on the page.","The action log  stores data about actions taken by users with a page. For instance, if a user comments on a post on a page, the action log  stores the actions between the user and the page. The action log  can also store the actions between different users who add comments to or like posts of another user on a page.","The edge database  stores data about the connections between pages of the social network. A connection between two pages is called an edge. In one embodiment, the edge database  stores the connections between a parent page and one or more child pages in the social network. The edge database  can store a plurality of edges established among related pages. For example, a parent page for \u201cStarbucks\u201d can be connected to thousands of child pages for individual Starbucks locations.","A new page is created when the page creation module  receives a request from a user (or an admin) to create a new page in the social network. The request can be activated by a user's check-in to a particular location or business. A new page request can also be submitted when a user clicks on a \u201ccreate a new page\u201d link or similar type of link in the social networking environment. The page creation module  can respond to the user and require the user to submit additional information about the topic of interest, such as a name, a category, a sub-category, a photo, a website, a location or an address, etc. This information can be submitted by the user from the user device, such as a computer, a smart phone, etc. The page creation module  can create a page using the information submitted by the user. The page creation module  can also submit information about the new page for storage in the pages database  and pass the data along to the page structure module  for processing.","The page structure module  determines the relationship between pages. The page structure module  can determine the relationship between a new page and existing pages, or between existing pages in the social network.","The page structure module  can determine that a relationship between two pages is a parent-child relationship. Pages are structured hierarchically as parent pages and child pages. A connection between a parent page and a child page is called an edge. A parent page is dedicated to a topic of interest and is designated as the central or main page in a hub structure of related pages. The parent page includes information that is common to the related child pages and can be used as an organizational page for connecting and categorizing other pages. A child page includes the same or related topic of interest as the parent page, and the topic of interest can be a sub-category or sub-group of the parent page. Some examples of parent page-child page connections include the following: the child page \u201cis a store of\u201d the parent page, the child page \u201cis a product of\u201d the parent page, the child page \u201cis a representative of\u201d the parent page, the child page \u201cis sold at\u201d the parent page, the child page \u201cis a book by\u201d the parent page, or the child page \u201cis a movie by\u201d the parent page.","Other types of edges can be established between pages. Child pages that have the same or related topic of interest can be connected in a horizontal relationship (e.g., \u201csibling\u201d relationships). In one example, pages for individual Starbucks store locations can be connected to each other because they fall under the same category of business. Pages can be structured such that a page has a hierarchical relationship with more than one page (e.g., a page can be designated as a child page in relationship to a parent page and also designated as a parent page to a second child page). For instance, a parent page for the \u201cDisney\u201d company could be connected to a child page for the theme park, \u201cDisneyland.\u201d The \u201cDisneyland\u201d page can be designated as a parent page to a child page for the \u201cMagic Mountain\u201d ride at Disneyland. The \u201cDisney\u201d page could be called the grand-parent page to the \u201cMagic Mountain\u201d page. This organization among pages can result in a hierarchal structure of connections.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["210","220","230","230","230","220","230","230","230","230","230","230"],"i":["a","b","c","a","b ","c","a","b ","c "]},"The hub structure of pages allows for a sharing of data and information among pages. Permissions can be designated based on the relationships among various pages. The page permissions module  can verify and set permissions for pages to share data about the topic of interest. For example, a page that is structurally higher in the hierarchical structure (parent or grand-parent page, etc.) can have administrative permissions to edit, create, share, or manage information on other child pages.","The page structure module  can also categorize pages, and the categories can be used to determine the relationships among pages. The page structure module  can determine the relationship of a page to other pages based on the categorization of the page.  illustrates examples of categories for pages: a local business or place , a company, organization or institution , a brand or product , an artist, band or public , entertainment , or a cause or community . Pages that fall within the same category or sub-category can be grouped together and can be connected to each other.","In some embodiments, the pages can be categorized based on a similar geographic location. Pages can be grouped together based on the location of the topic of interest (e.g., pages for Chicago sports teams, pages for bars in the Mission district of San Francisco). For example, location-based categorization can be useful for connecting pages that are associated with the same cities or countries (for example, categorizing Dunkin' Donuts stores located in the U.S. in one category, and Dunkin' Donuts stores located in Korea in another category).","Referring back to , the page structure module  can also determine the relationship between pages by requesting the user to define a relationship. This prompt can be sent at the time that the page is created or after the user has created the page. The request to define edges can be provided through a user interface in the social network or via an API (application programming interface). The user can define the page as a parent page, a child page, or a grand-parent page, for example. The user can designate multiple relationships with other pages. The page structure module  can also ask the user to select a geographic location for the page, such as the city or country (e.g., Starbucks U.K. or Starbucks U.S.).","In some embodiments, the page structure module  requests the user to designate a category for the page in order to define the relationship of the page to other pages. The page structure module  can also request the user to select sub-categories. For instance, sub-categories for a business or place can include bookstores, grocery stores, hotels, landmarks, or schools. The page structure module  can ask for additional information about the sub-category, such as the name, address, or phone number of the business or place of interest.","In other embodiments, the page structure module  can infer the relationship between pages. In one embodiment, related pages can be inferred based on the content of the page. The page structure module  can analyze the content on the page. The page structure module  determines based on the content whether the page is similar in content to an existing parent page or child page. For instance, if a page has frequent occurrences of the words \u201cCoca-Cola\u201d on the page, the page is likely to be related to other pages about \u201cCoca-Cola.\u201d In another example, the page structure module  can infer the relationship of the pages by analyzing the content of posts on the page. For example, if a page has multiple posts about Starbucks coffee, it is likely to be related to a parent Starbucks page.","The relationship among pages can also be inferred by a user's actions associated with the page. In some embodiments, a user's posts are used to infer the category of the page, which can then be used to determine its relationship to other pages. A user's post may include content about the topic of interest or refer to a subject matter that is shared with another child page or a parent page. For example, a new page that has posts about the San Francisco Giants can be inferred to be related to a parent page or other child pages about the San Francisco Giants.","In some embodiments, a user's check-in location can be used to categorize the page and\/or determine a relationship with other pages. Pages with a similar topic of interest and location can be used to establish a connection between the pages. For example, a user may check into a location for a restaurant that is near other known locations for restaurants in the Mission district of San Francisco. The page structure module  can categorize the page with other pages for Mission district restaurants and connect those pages via edges based on the similar location and category.","In one embodiment, the time of a user's check-in can be used to categorize the page and\/or determine a relationship with other pages. The page structure module  can analyze the check-in times for multiple users to determine whether a page is for a particular kind of establishment or business. For example, if multiple users check-in to a location around 2 A.M., the page structure module  can infer that the page is for a bar or late-night establishment that is open at that time.","The page structure module  can also present structured questions to users to determine the category of the page and possible relationships with other pages. The data collected from the structured user questions can be used to identify the type of page and determine the categories of pages. Questions can be presented when the user is creating or editing a page, or when the user is performing other actions in the social network (e.g., playing games, checking-in to a location). The answers to the questions can be used to gather information about the topic of the page (e.g., locations or products) and to determine the category of the page. For instance, the following question can be presented to a user: \u201cWhat is your favorite bar in Palo Alto, Calif.?\u201d The answers provided by the user are presumed to only include names of bars. The names of the bars can be used to determine whether a particular page has a name that matches names of identified bars in Palo Alto and whether the page should be categorized with other bars located in Palo Alto.","In other embodiments, the page structure module  can determine the relationship among pages using a machine learning algorithm. Various data are input as signals and analyzed by the machine learning algorithm. The signals can include the average, median, skew, and kurtosis from a histogram of the data set. A machine learning algorithm can be trained on a set of signals associated with the data from a page that has been verified to have a connection with an existing page (e.g., a verified relationship between a child page and a parent page). The machine learning algorithm can be adjusted using various rules and coefficients to accurately predict whether a page is a child page of a parent page. Once the machine learning algorithm has been trained on a known data set, the algorithm can be used for determining whether other pages should be designated as child pages for a parent page. Data can also be used to train the machine learning algorithm to determine whether a page is in the same category as other pages or should be connected to other child pages.","The page structure module  can also determine how to categorize pages based on crowdsourcing methods. Crowdsourcing is the act of outsourcing tasks, traditionally performed to a large group of people or community (a crowd), through an open call, and typically involves asking users who are otherwise unconnected to produce data or assist in decision making. Data collected from these unconnected users can be used to categorize and structure relationships among pages. For instance, the page structure module  can gather data from multiple users about a certain topic of interest or category. In one example, users can be asked for recommendations for a restaurant in a particular area. The page structure module  can analyze the reputation of the users who provide the answers to verify whether the recommendations should be considered. This verification can be done by assessing the users' other actions in the social network and determining whether these actions show that they are trustworthy users. For example, a user who has engaged in spamming other users or providing wrong answers to structured questions would not be considered trustworthy. Next, an independent verification can be performed to determine whether the recommended restaurants are existing restaurants and have had similar independent ratings. Verified pages with good recommendations can be categorized together and edges can be created among these pages. Various other types of crowdsourcing techniques can be used to gather data about pages and to categorize pages.","For a designated parent page, the page location module  can create child pages from the parent page for various geographical locations of the viewing users. For example, the page location module  can configure a page for a non-real world entity based on the geographic location (e.g., Starbucks U.K.) using a page of a real world entity (e.g., Starbucks). The parent page for Starbucks can be configured and presented as a Starbucks U.K. page for a viewing user in London, and the same page can be presented as a Starbucks U.S. page for a viewing user in New York. The page location module  can create child pages based on geographic locations for numerous parent pages in the social network.","In addition, the data transfer module  transfers data between the parent page and the child page. Referring now to , an example is shown where a child page  is created or connected to a parent page , and the data transfer module  \u201cpushes down\u201d  data about the topic of interest from the parent page . This data can include text, posts, tips, comments, objects, photos, links, address or location information, promotional or marketing information, or information about the topic of interest. The data transfer module  can also \u201croll up\u201d  data from the child page  to the parent page . In some embodiments, data can be rolled up from multiple child pages  and sent to the parent page . This data can include the aggregate number of likes, check-ins or users' actions associated with all of the child pages .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["430","410","420","510","520","530","540","550","560","570","550","560","410","410","570","420","410"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["601","602","603","604","605","606"]},"The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration; it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.","Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations, while described functionally, computationally, or logically, are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits, microcode, or the like. Furthermore, it has also proven convenient at times, to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules, without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software, firmware, hardware, or any combinations thereof.","Any of the steps, operations, or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules, alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment, a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer-readable medium containing computer program code, which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps, operations, or processes described.","Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, and\/or it may comprise a general-purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore, any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.","Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave, where the computer data signal includes any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein. The computer data signal is a product that is presented in a tangible medium or carrier wave and modulated or otherwise encoded in the carrier wave, which is tangible, and transmitted according to any suitable transmission method.","Finally, the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes, and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly, the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, of the scope of the invention, which is set forth in the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
