---
title: Policy enforcement with dynamic address object
abstract: Policy enforcement is disclosed. An identity notification is received from a network device. The identity notification is usable to determine a user identifier associated with the network device. The identity notification is also usable to determine an IP address associated with the network device. A policy is updated based on the received identity notification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08930529&OS=08930529&RS=08930529
owner: Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
number: 08930529
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110927
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Devices such as firewalls are sometimes used to prevent individuals from accessing resources to which they are not authorized. As an example, members of the public may be entitled to access content served by a web server, but not authorized to access other services available on the server such as administrative tools. A firewall can enforce such policies, such as through a set of rules that include static information about the server such as an IP address.","Increasingly, businesses and other entities are using hosted computing resources instead of purchasing and maintaining computer hardware themselves. As one example, instead of maintaining a set of dedicated physical machines (e.g., to serve web pages), businesses run virtual machines on leased hardware. In such a scenario, if a particular physical machine fails, the virtual machine image(s) running on that physical machine can be migrated to a new physical machine. Unfortunately, the dynamic nature of virtual machine migration can pose problems for firewall rules which traditionally expect servers to be configured with static IP addresses.","The invention can be implemented in numerous ways, including as a process; an apparatus; a system; a composition of matter; a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium; and\/or a processor, such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and\/or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification, these implementations, or any other form that the invention may take, may be referred to as techniques. In general, the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise, a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein, the term \u2018processor\u2019 refers to one or more devices, circuits, and\/or processing cores configured to process data, such as computer program instructions.","A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments, but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives, modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["130","126","110","120","106","108"]},"Communications between ExampleCo's virtual servers - and resources outside of ACME Hosting's data center (e.g., communications from laptop  via network ) pass through data appliance  placed at the perimeter of data center . Such communications may take place using any appropriate communication protocol such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), and File Transfer Protocol (FTP). In the example shown in , data appliance  is a firewall and is configured to enforce policies (also referred to herein as \u201crules\u201d) with respect to the communications it receives. Other types of devices can also be configured to provide the functionality described herein as being performed by data appliance . For example, a router, gateway, intrusion detection system, intrusion prevention system, or other appropriate device can be configured to perform either or both of the identity management functionality and policy enforcement functionality. In some embodiments, data appliance  is also configured to enforce policies with respect to traffic that stays within ACME's data center .","As explained above, data appliance  is configured to enforce various policies. Such policies can apply to particular devices (e.g., virtual server ), particular users, and\/or groups (e.g., of devices or users). As one example, a policy can specify that access to virtual server  via HTTPS is permitted by anyone (including an arbitrary member of the public using laptop ). As another example, a policy can specify that access to virtual server  via SSH is permitted by members of the Engineering group, and denied to anyone else. Other types of actions can also be specified, such as policies requiring that certain types of access be logged. Other types of policies can also be specified, as applicable, such as quality of service policies, instead of or in addition to access\/security policies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["110","106","108","202","106","108","106","110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A"],"b":["302","132","110","304","116","130","142","102","102","306","308","110","116","102"]},"Also stored by data appliance  is a repository of mappings () between the unique device identifiers and the IP address of the devices. The mappings can be stored in a variety of forms, such as in a database or as a set of one or more flat files. One example of a mapping is: \u201cACME-VM-1::10.0.0.1\u201d indicating that the IP address of the device having a unique identifier of \u201cACME-VM-1\u201d (i.e., virtual machine ) is \u201c10.0.0.1.\u201d Other information can also be included in the mapping as applicable, such as a timestamp at which the mapping was added (or updated). As will be described in more detail below, when the IP address of a particular device changes, the mapping in the repository is updated and any firewall rules involving the particular device are updated as well.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"],"b":["146","102","306","308","144","336","338"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3B","FIG. 1","FIG. 3C"],"b":["110","116","110","110","202","102","114","302","302","304","110","336","366","110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["102","102","402","404","102","410","102","102","406","408","102","412","412","110","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","504","500","110","102","412","110","500","102","110","108","500","110","106","108","110","500","102"]},"Other events can also be used to trigger the sending of document  to data appliance . For example, suppose virtual machine  is a virtualized desktop computer assigned to a member of the engineering group at ExampleCo. Each time the employee logs into virtual machine , a script executes that sends document  to data appliance .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["102","602","110","500","102","102","602","110","102","110","110","102","502","110","502"]},"At , data appliance  stores identifier  and IP address  in repository . As will be described in more detail below, in some embodiments the identity notification is received indirectly from the network device by data appliance , such as by an agent working in cooperation with the data appliance and\/or device .","At , a policy is updated based on the received identity notification. As one example, at , the previously compiled version of policy  () is recompiled () using the updated IP address . In various embodiments, the identity notification is a push-type notification, and the receipt of a notification at  automatically triggers recompilation at  of any rules implicated by the received notification.","Finally, at , the updated policy is applied. As one example, when virtual machine  is migrated from host  to , users, such as a user of client , will be permitted to access virtual machine  via HTTPS at its new IP address.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["102","702","704","704","130","126","704","704","502","704","704","702","102","704"]},"When components such as agent  and directory service provider  are included in an environment, portions of the functionality provided by data appliance  can be replicated by the agent and\/or directory service provider or may be provided by those components instead of being provided by data appliance . As one example, directory service provider  can be configured to provide API , with devices such as virtual machine  sending identity notifications to the directory service provider  instead of to data appliance . Similarly, directory service provider  can be configured to store repository  instead of the ID-to-IP address mappings being stored by data appliance . In such scenarios, data appliance  is configured to cooperate with directory service provider  (e.g., via agent ) as needed to update and enforce policies when IP addresses of devices change.","Also included in the environment shown in  are two additional network devices\u2014node  (a computer within enterprise network ) and node  (a computer outside of network  and data center ). Either, or both of nodes  and  may be configured to use dynamic IP addresses, and can have pertinent policies included in data appliance  in accordance with the techniques described herein. For example, node  can be configured to execute a script at startup that sends a document similar to document  to data appliance  (or agent  or directory service provider  as applicable).","Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
