---
title: Sparse mode system
abstract: A listener system, or listener, may be used with an Ethernet Audio-Video Bridging (“AVB”) network. The listener may include various components, such as an upper layer application and a stream reservation protocol stack. The upper layer application and stream reservation protocol stack may be in communication with each other. The stream reservation protocol stack may receive stream advertisements on or across the Ethernet AVB network. The stream reservation protocol stack may operate in a sparse mode and may operate in a full mode. When operating in a sparse mode, the stream reservation protocol stack may transmit one subset of the received stream advertisements to the upper layer application, and may not transmit another subset of the received stream advertisements to the upper layer application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08619803&OS=08619803&RS=08619803
owner: Harman International Industries, Incorporated
number: 08619803
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110505
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Technical Field","This invention relates to a listener system for use with an Ethernet Audio-Video Bridging (\u201cAVB\u201d) network, a method of operating a stream reservation protocol stack of a listener connected with an Ethernet Audio-Video Bridging (\u201cAVB\u201d) network, and a network communication system.","2. Related Art","With continued technological developments, an increasing number of devices may interact and communicate with each other through various networks. As more devices communicate and interact with each other, more data may be passed through a network and to each connected device. Therefore, a need exists for a device and\/or system that increases and\/or maximizes efficiency and resources for one or more devices in the network, such as those devices which may have limited resources.","A listener system, or listener, may be used with an Ethernet Audio-Video Bridging (\u201cAVB\u201d) network. The listener may include various components, such as an upper layer application and a stream reservation protocol stack. The upper layer application and stream reservation protocol stack may be in communication with each other. The stream reservation protocol stack may receive stream advertisements on or across the Ethernet AVB network. The stream reservation protocol stack may operate in a sparse mode and may operate in a full mode. When operating in a sparse mode, the stream reservation protocol stack may transmit one subset of the received stream advertisements to the upper layer application, and may not transmit another subset of the received stream advertisements to the upper layer application.","A stream reservation protocol stack of a listener may be connected with an Ethernet AVB network. The listener may include an upper layer application and the stream reservation protocol stack. The stream reservation protocol stack may be operated according to various methods. In one method, the stream reservation protocol stack may receive a plurality of stream advertisements from the Ethernet AVB network. The stream reservation protocol stack may transmit the plurality of stream advertisements to the upper layer application when functioning in full mode. When functioning in sparse mode, the stream reservation protocol stack may transmit a first subset of the received stream advertisements to the upper layer application and not transmit a second subset of received stream advertisements to the upper layer application.","A network communication system may include an Ethernet AVB network, a talker, and a number of listeners. The talker and the listeners may all be in communication with the Ethernet AVB network. The talker may advertise a data stream on the Ethernet AVB network with a stream advertisement. The listeners may be configured to operate in a sparse mode and in a full mode. In the sparse mode, the listeners may compare the stream advertisement to one or more stream identifiers associated with one or more data streams of interest to the listener.","A computer program product may have a computer readable medium tangibly embodying computer executable code for operating a stream reservation protocol stack of a listener system connected with an Ethernet Audio-Video Bridging (\u201cAVB\u201d) network. The product may include code for receiving a number of stream advertisements from the Ethernet AVB network with a stream reservation protocol stack included in the listener system. The product may also include code for transmitting the number of stream advertisements to an upper layer application included in the listener system when the listener system is functioning in a full mode. In addition, the product may include code for transmitting a first subset of the received stream advertisements to the upper layer application and not transmitting a second subset of the received stream advertisements to the upper layer application when the listener system is operating in a sparse mode.","Other systems, methods, features and advantages will be, or will become, apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems, methods, features and advantages be included within this description, be within the scope of the invention, and be protected by the following claims.","Demand for connectivity between network devices continues to increase at a fast rate. In many systems, a greater number of devices are being manufactured which have network connection and\/or communication capabilities. For example, in some automobiles, components not previously considered connective are being manufactured with connective capabilities. Parts, such as brakes, throttle, and\/or various other parts, may be manufactured as Ethernet Audio-Video Bridging (\u201cEthernet AVB\u201d) enabled devices which may communicate through an Ethernet AVB network. In some systems, Ethernet networks may be used to connected one or more devices, with audio and\/or video data streams being sent wireless and\/or through a wireline, such as an Ethernet cable.","With an increasing number of devices being manufactured with network communication capabilities and included in growing networks, a greater amount of data, stream advertisements, and\/or data streams are being sent, transmitted, received, and\/or otherwise communicated through the network. For example, in some networks, such as Ethernet AVB networks, hundreds or thousands of streams of data may be available on the network. In many of these network systems, each device connected with the network may be receiving and storing information and\/or data about all of the data or data streams sent through the network. Tracking all of those streams may require memory resources and processing power. This may not be an efficient use of memory, processing power, and\/or other resources of the devices, such as where a device is receiving data, stream advertisements, and\/or data streams that the device is not interested in. In some devices, it may be desirable to have a component or feature which may act as a filter, sending on data or stream advertisements of relevance to the upper layers of a device.","A number of systems and methods (generally referred to as \u201csystems\u201d) which may be useful in addressing these issues are described. These systems may incorporate a stream reservation protocol sparse mode. In sparse mode, a device may configure its stream reservation protocol listener to only process those streams that are of interest to the device. Streams and\/or stream advertisements for streams that do not match the streams specified via a sparse mode may be considered uninteresting and simply ignored.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["110","130","131","132","140","141","142","150","190","130","131","132","110","140","141","142","110","150","190","110","130","131","132","140","141","142","150","130","131","132","140","141","142","150","190"]},"One or more of the talkers , , and , the listeners , , and , the talkers\/listeners , and\/or the controllers  may be connected to each other through or using the network . Alternatively or additionally, one or more of the talkers , , and , the listeners , , and , the talkers\/listeners , and\/or the controllers  may be connected to each other directly. For example, one or more of the talkers , , and , the listeners , , and , the talkers\/listeners , and\/or the controllers  may be connected to each other using a wireline such as an Ethernet cable, and\/or a wireless network. Various other connections are possible.","The network  may be, include, and\/or communicate through or with an Ethernet AVB network. The network  may include one or more bridges which may communicate with one or more devices communicating through and\/or connected with the network. The one or more bridges may communicate with the network  and\/or devices connected to the network through or using various protocols, such as Ethernet AVB protocols designated by the IEEE. For example, one or more bridges may communicate with the network  and\/or devices connected to the network through or using Ethernet AVB protocols such as IEEE 802.1AS-2001 (gPTP) for network timing and synchronization, IEEE 802.1Qav-2009 for queuing and forwarding streaming data, IEEE 802.1Qat-2010 (SRP) for reserving data stream bandwidth in a network, and\/or IEEE 1722-2011 related to a possible data streaming format. Various other protocols may be used. Alternatively or additionally, the network  may be, include, and\/or communicate through or with wide area networks (WAN), such as the Internet, local area networks (LAN), campus area networks, metropolitan area networks, or any other wireless and\/or wireline networks that may allow for data communication. The network  may be divided into sub-networks. The sub-networks may allow access to all of the components connected to the network , or the sub-networks may restrict access between the components connected to the network . The network  may be regarded as a public or private network and may include, for example, a virtual private network, an encryption, or any other security mechanism employed over the public Internet, or the like. Various other types of networks  are possible.","One or more of the talkers , , and , the listeners , , and , and\/or the talker\/listener  may be connected to the network  in any configuration that supports data transfer. This may include a data connection to the network  that may be wired or wireless. One or more of the talkers , , and , the listeners , , and , and\/or the talker\/listeners  may be connected to an Ethernet AVB network and\/or to each other through or with an Ethernet connection, such as using a cable or wireless connection to an Ethernet AVB network. Various other connections may be possible.","The system may include one or more talker systems, or talkers , , and . In small communication networks, the system may have only a small number of talkers, such as twenty or less. In other larger communication systems, the system may include hundreds, thousands, or potentially millions of talkers. Various numbers of talkers are possible.","The talkers , , and  may or may not be or include a portion or all of the features of a computer system, such as a computer system  shown in  and described later. The talkers , , and  may be Ethernet AVB enabled and\/or compatible. The talkers , , and  may be configured, adapted, operable, and\/or enabled to communicate through and\/or with an Ethernet AVB network, such as according to, through, and\/or using a one or more standards or protocols. An example of a protocol associated with communications between a talker  and a network  may be the stream reservation protocol specified in IEEE 802.1Qat-2010. Alternatively or additionally, various other protocols, such as a Multiple MAC Registration Protocol (\u201cMMRP\u201d), IEEE 802.1AS-2011 (gPTP), IEEE 802.1Qav-2009, and\/or IEEE 1722-2011 may be used.","The talkers , , and  may be configured, adapted, operable, and\/or enabled to send information and\/or data through the network . For example, talkers , , and  may be configured and\/or adapted to send a stream of information that includes data, commands, and\/or command signals through, using, or across an Ethernet AVB network. Information and\/or data sent by talkers , , and  through the network , such as through an Ethernet AVB network, may be received by other devices connected with the network , such as listeners , , and  and\/or talker\/listeners .","The talkers , , and  may perform various functions and\/or be connected with or include various components. For example, a talker  may be connected with the network  and an input device, such as a musical instrument or microphone. Information and\/or data may be sent to, received by, and\/or otherwise input to the talker  or a device connected with the talker . For example, a user may play an instrument or sing into a microphone connected with the talker , and information and\/or data about the instrument, singing, and\/or voice may be received by the talker .","While the talkers , , and  in the network communication system may be, and may be described as, the physical devices themselves (such as a microphone), it should be appreciated that in some systems, the talker may be or may include a computer or other electronic controlling device, which may be used and\/or operate to control the talker (such as a microphone), such as some or all of the features of a computer system  shown in  and described later. In these systems, the computer or other electronic controller device may be AVB enabled and\/or communicate directly with the network . In addition, the computer or other electronic controller device may communicate in various ways with the physical or other device, such as with a wired or wireless connection. Various other alternatives are possible.","The talker  may process the information and\/or data received in various ways. For example, the talker  may transform any signal received, such as the musical signal, from an analog signal to a digital signal. In other systems, a computing device may perform processing of received information and\/or data, and may send the processed information and\/or data to the talker . Various other processing functions may be performed by the talker  and\/or devices in communication with the talker .","The talker  may transmit, send, output, and\/or advertise (\u201cadvertise\u201d) processed information and\/or data to the network , such as in, with, and\/or using a data stream and\/or Ethernet AVB signal. Such signals may, for example, be referred to as stream advertisements. For example, the talker  may produce a stream advertisement that may advertise a data stream encompassing data related to music played by a user on a device connected with the talker  onto an Ethernet AVB network. The information and\/or data advertised by the talker  on the network  in the stream advertisement may be received by other devices, such as by various listeners , , and  and\/or talker\/listeners . Various other functions may be performed by the talker .","Each talker , , and  may have one or more talker attributes. Talker attributes may specify, include and\/or otherwise identify characteristics about the talker  and\/or a data stream advertised by a talker . For example, a talker attribute may describe a data stream, such as an audio, video, and\/or command data stream, that the talker  will multicast over the network . A talker attribute may specify how much bandwidth a data stream advertised by a talker  may require in order to be received by a device over the network . A talker attribute may specify how long it may take information and\/or data sent from the talker  to reach a listener , which may be referred to as a latency or latency period. A talker attribute may specify what listeners may be interested in the information and\/or data advertised by the talker , such as by or using a unique identification number or set of characters related to each listener. A talker attribute may specify a unique stream identifier (\u201cID\u201d) for the talker  and\/or the stream advertised by the talker . A talker attribute may specify, include, and\/or identify various other pieces of information and\/or data. One talker attribute may include multiple pieces of information and\/or data, such as information about a bandwidth required for download and a unique stream ID of the talker. In some systems, each talker attribute may be related to only one piece of information and\/or data, and each talker , , and  may have multiple talker attributes. In other systems, each talker , , and  has only one talker attribute which specifies multiple pieces of information and\/or data about the talkers. Various combinations are possible.","As mentioned, a talker attribute may specify a stream ID for the talker . The stream ID of the talker  may be a unique sequence of characters and\/or numbers which may only be assigned to one talker . In some systems, no two talkers may have the same stream ID. An identification of a unique stream ID of a talker  may then be used by devices and\/or networks to positively identify a source of information and\/or data. For example, a device may receive over an Ethernet AVB network a stream advertisement for a data stream that includes a unique stream ID and may, based on an identification of the unique stream ID, determine the talker that has advertised the data stream. Various other uses of the stream ID are possible. The unique stream ID may be a 64 bit stream ID, or various other stream IDs may be used. The talker  may be assigned a unique stream ID at the time the talker  is manufactured, such as by a manufacturer, after manufacture, such as by being generated by the talker  itself, when the talker  connects with the network , such as by a controller , and\/or at various other times.","One or more talker attributes may be stored in one or more of talkers , , and , listeners , , and , talker\/listener , and\/or controllers . For example, a unique stream ID of a talker  may be sent to and\/or received by a controller , which may record and\/or store the unique stream ID of the talker  and\/or forward the unique stream ID of the talker  to one or more listeners , , and , such as through, with, or using a non-SRP protocol.","A stream advertisement may be a signal and\/or other transmission from a talker , , or  which may be passed through the network . A stream advertisement sent by a talker  may indicate that the talker  has a data stream that it can and\/or will send, multicast and\/or otherwise transmit over a network . The stream advertisement may include details about the data stream, such as one or more talker attributes that may be sent with and\/or included in a stream advertisement advertised and\/or output by the talker . For example, the stream advertisement may include a unique stream ID of the data stream being advertised by the talker  using the stream advertisement. The stream advertisement sent by a talker  may be transmitted across a network  to and\/or received by one or more devices in communication with the network . In some systems, the stream advertisement is sent to all devices on a network .","One or more listeners , , and , and\/or talker\/listeners  may receive the stream advertisements from the talker. If the listener wishes to receive the data stream being advertised by the stream advertisement, the listener may send a \u201cListener Ready\u201d signal to a bridge, the network  and\/or talker. The signal may be a request to attach to the data stream via the stream ID included in the stream advertisement. When an Ethernet AVB bridge receives the \u201cListener Ready\u201d signal from the listener, the bridge will match it with the talker advertise and allow the data stream referenced by the stream advertisement to be sent to the requesting listener. One or more than one listener may request and\/or attach to the same data stream via one stream ID. One listener may request and\/or attach to more than one data stream via the stream IDs of each requested data stream. Other variations are possible.","One or more stream advertisements may be sent and\/or accessed individually and\/or alone with, through, and\/or using the network . One or more stream advertisements may be sent to, accessed by, and\/or received by one or more receiving devices on the network , such as listeners , , and , talker\/listeners , and\/or controllers . Various other uses and functions of stream advertisements and\/or talker attributes are possible.","The system may include one or more listener systems, or listeners , , and . In small networks, the system may have only a small number of listeners, such as twenty or less. In other larger communication systems, the system may have hundreds, thousands, or potentially millions of listeners. Various numbers of listeners are possible.","The listeners , , and  may or may not be or include a portion or all of the features of a computer system, such as a computer system  shown in  and described later. The listeners , , and  may be Ethernet AVB enabled and\/or compatible. The listeners , , and  may be configured, adapted, operable, and\/or enabled to communicate through and\/or with an Ethernet AVB network, such as according to, through, and\/or using a one or more standards or protocols, such as the stream reservation protocol identified in IEEE 802.1AS-2011 (gPTP), IEEE 802.1Qav-2009, IEEE 802.1Qat-2010 (SRP), and\/or IEEE 1722-2011. Alternatively, various other protocols, such as a MMRP, may be used.","Listeners , , and  may be configured, adapted, and\/or operable to receive information that includes data across, through, and\/or using the network . For example a listener  may be configured and\/or adapted to receive a stream advertisement and\/or a data stream passing across a network , such as an Ethernet AVB network. The information and\/or data received by a listener , , and  may be, for example, the information and\/or data sent by the talker , , and , information and\/or data sent by a controller , and\/or various other information and\/or data sent through and\/or using the network . In some systems, the listeners , , and  may receive one or more stream advertisements advertising a data stream from a talker . The listeners , , and\/or  may register for and\/or receive a data stream being advertised by the stream advertisement from the talker . Registration for and\/or receipt of a data stream may or may be received by the listeners , , and  with a guaranteed bandwidth. Various other possibilities exist.","Listeners , , and  may perform various other functions and\/or include or be connected with various other components. For example, a listener  may be connected with a network  and an output device, such as a speaker or television monitor. Information and\/or data may be gathered and\/or otherwise received by the listener  through the network . For example, information and\/or data about notes played on a musical instrument may be transmitted through the network  by the talker , and may be received by the listener . The listener  may process the information and\/or data received through the network . The listener  may output processed information and\/or data to the speaker. For example, the listener  may output information and\/or data related to the signal received through the Ethernet AVB network to the speaker.","While the listeners , , and  in the network communication system may be, and may be described as, physical devices themselves (such as a speaker), it should be appreciated that in some systems, the listener may be or may include a computer or other electronic controlling device which may be used and\/or operate to control the listener (such as a speaker), such as some or all of the features of a computer system  shown in  and described later. In these systems, the computer or other electronic controller device may be AVB enabled and\/or communicate directly with the network . In these systems, the computer or other electronic controller device may communicate in various ways with the physical or other device, such as with a standard wired or wireless connection. Various other alternatives are possible.","Each listener , , and  may have one or more listener attributes. A listener attribute may be, for example, a Listener Ready, a Listener Asking Failed, and\/or a Listener Ready Failed attribute. These attributes may or may not contain a single piece of information, such as a stream ID that the listener may want to attach to.","One or more listener attributes may be sent with, through, and\/or using the network . One or more listener attributes may be sent to, accessed by, and\/or received by one or more receiving devices on the network , such as talkers , , and , talker\/listeners , and\/or controllers . One or more listener attributes may be stored in one or more of talkers , , and , listeners , , and , talker\/listeners , and\/or controllers . One or more listener attributes may be used to connect a listener with a data stream and\/or talker. Various other uses and functions of listener attributes are possible.","Each listener , , and  may additionally or alternatively have one or more listener characteristics which may specify, include, and\/or otherwise identify characteristics about the listener . Listener characteristics may, for example, exist and\/or be used outside of the stream reservation protocol stack , and\/or may be used to inform devices on a network about the characteristics and\/or capabilities of a listener. For example, a listener characteristic may specify what talkers a listener  may be interested in. A listener characteristic may specify a unique listener ID for the listener , which may, for example, uniquely identify the listener  to other devices on the network . A listener characteristic may identify one or more capabilities of the listener , such as a bandwidth that the listener  has available, a type of data stream a listener  may be interested in and\/or capable of processing, and\/or various other capabilities of the listener . A listener characteristic may additionally or alternatively specify various other pieces of information and\/or data about the listener . One listener characteristic may include multiple pieces of information and\/or data. In some systems, each listener characteristic may be related to only one piece of information and\/or data, and each listener , , and  may have multiple listener characteristics. In other systems, each listener , , and  has only one listener characteristic which specifies multiple pieces of information and\/or data about the listeners. Various combinations are possible.","Talker\/listeners  may be configured, adapted, operable, and\/or enabled to send and receive information and\/or data through the network . A talker\/listener  may thus include the capabilities and functions of a talker  and a listener . In some systems, all devices connected with the network  may be talker\/listeners . In other systems, some or none of the devices connected with the network  may be talker\/listeners . While the following discussion may only refer to talkers  and listeners  individually, it should be appreciated that in some systems, functions and attributes of talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and  discussed may be accomplished by talker\/listeners . Various combinations are possible.","The system may include one or more controller . The controller  may or may not be or include a portion or all of the features of a computer system, such as a computer system  shown in  and described later. The controller  may be Ethernet AVB enabled and\/or compatible. The controller  may be configured, adapted, operable, and\/or enabled to communicate with and\/or through an Ethernet AVB network, such as according to, through, and\/or with a one or more standards or protocols, such as the stream reservation protocol outlined in IEEE 802.1AS-2011 (gPTP), IEEE 802.1Qav-2009, IEEE 802.1Qat-2010 (SRP), and\/or IEEE 1722-2011. Alternatively, various other protocols, such as a MMRP, may be used.","The controller  may identify the talkers , , and  and listeners , , and  in and\/or communicating using the network , such as the talkers and listeners in and\/or communicating using an Ethernet AVB network. The controller  may communicate directly or indirectly with talkers , , and  and listeners , , and . The controller  may receive and communicate information to, from, or between the talkers , , and  and listeners , , and . For example, a controller  may retrieve or assign a unique stream ID or other talker attribute to a talker , and\/or may pass the unique stream ID of the talker and\/or other talker attribute to a listener . Various other communications and interactions with talkers , , and  and listeners , , and  are possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["210","140","141","142","210","140","141","142"]},"The listener  may include a processor, a field programmable gate array (\u201cFPGA\u201d), hardware modules, software modules, combinations of hardware and software modules, memory, stacks, layers, and\/or other various other components and\/or features. The listener  may include one or more of an upper layer application , a stream reservation protocol module, or stream reservation protocol stack , a network interface , and\/or memory . The stream reservation protocol stack  may further include a multiple stream registration protocol (\u201cMSRP\u201d) attribute database  and\/or a sparse mode engine . The listener  may or may not be modeled after and\/or include features of an open systems interconnection model (OSI model). In another example, the listener  may include more than one device, such that one or more of the modules or components of the listener  may be located in different devices. For example, one device may include a sparse mode engine  while a second device may include the upper layer application  of the listener . Other variations are possible.","The upper layer application  may be, may include, and\/or may be referred to as an upper layer module, an upper layer application module, an upper layer, and\/or a stack. The upper layer application  may include software, hardware or some combination thereof executable by a processor. The upper layer application  of a listener  may perform one or more administrative tasks for a listener , and\/or may coordinate and\/or orchestrate one or more components of a listener  to ensure that the listener  performs tasks for which the listener  may be implemented. The upper layer application  may, for example, identify, receive, acquire, and\/or learn about data streams which may be advertised and\/or transmitted over a network .","The upper layer application  may store information related to all stream advertisements and\/or data streams received by the upper layer application  from the stream reservation protocol stack , and\/or may send those data streams which may be relevant to the listener  to components connected with the listener . For example, the upper layer application  may communicate with and\/or include memory and\/or a database, which the upper layer application may use to store information related to all stream advertisements and\/or data streams received. The memory and\/or database accessible and utilized by the upper layer application  may be a part of the upper layer application , or may be a separate component of the listener , such as memory  described later. The memory  may include and\/or store instructions for operation and\/or functions to be performed by the upper layer application . Various other examples are possible.","The upper layer application  may ensure that a data stream sent to listener  can be communicated to other components attached to the listener . For example, where the listener  is connected with or represents an speaker, the upper layer application  may identify from all data streams received from the stream reservation protocol stack  those data streams which include information and\/or data about audio signals to be output by the speaker, and may process and\/or transmit this information to the speaker for broadcast and\/or audio transmission. Various other examples are possible.","The upper layer application  may additionally or alternatively be capable of configuring a processor in or connected with the listener . For example, where the listener  is an amplifier, an upper layer application  of the listener  may configure the digital signal processor of the listener  for balance, volume, bass, and\/or treble. The upper layer application  may communicate with a controller  in the network communication system. For example, the controller  may send a list of one or more unique stream IDs of talkers that may advertise data streams that the listener  may be interested in acquiring. The controller  may determine what capabilities the listener may have for one or more data streams based on the capabilities sent by the listener , and may send stream IDs of data streams for the listener  to register for. The upper layer application  may also or alternatively be used to initiate a \u201cListener Ready\u201d attach request when a corresponding stream advertisement from a talker is received. In other systems this may not be included, such as in a system where a particular Listener device may be \u201chard-coded\u201d to always initiate an attachment request for a particular stream ID whether it has received a stream advertisement. Various other functions of the upper layer application are possible.","The listener  may include a stream reservation protocol stack . The stream reservation protocol stack  may identify, specify, represent and\/or include a protocol for the listener . For example, the stream reservation protocol stack  may be or represent the stream reservation protocol identified and described in the IEEE 802.1Q, such as in IEEE 802.1Q-2011 clause 35, and\/or may be part of the Ethernet AVB protocols. Information and\/or data received through the network interface , such as a stream advertisement, may be passed to the stream reservation protocol stack , which may process the information and\/or data. The stream reservation protocol stack  may transmit, output, send, and\/or pass some or all of the information and\/or data received from the network , such as the received stream advertisement, to the upper layer application  to be processed, implemented, and\/or transmitted. In some systems, the stream reservation protocol stack  may only process, analyze, and\/or be involved with stream advertisements.","In some systems, the stream reservation protocol stack  may transmit, handle, and\/or process the abandonment of a stream advertisement from a talker which may occur when a talker device crashes or stops streaming data. In some systems, the stream reservation protocol stack  may use MVRP as well as MSRP. MVRP may allow a listener  to attach to a same VLAN as a talker . Other functions of the stream reservation protocol stack  are possible.","The stream reservation protocol stack  may be, may include, and\/or may be referred to as a stream reservation protocol module, a stream reservation protocol layer module, a stream reservation protocol, a stream reservation protocol application, and\/or a stream reservation protocol layer. The stream reservation protocol stack  may include software, hardware or some combination thereof executable by a processor. The stream reservation protocol stack  may communicate with and\/or include memory and\/or a database, which the stream reservation protocol stack  may use to store information and\/or data, such as information about stream advertisements received. The memory and\/or database accessible and utilized by the stream reservation protocol stack  may be a part of the stream reservation protocol stack , or may be a separate component of the listener , such as memory  described later. The memory  may include and\/or store instructions for operation and\/or functions to be performed by the stream reservation protocol stack . Various other examples are possible.","The listener  may include a network interface . The network interface  may be an interface between one or more components and\/or features of the listener  and the network . The network interface  may receive information and\/or data from the network  and\/or may pass the received information and\/or data to the stream reservation protocol stack  of the listener . In some systems, the network interface  may transmit information from the stream reservation protocol stack  of the listener  to the network .","The listener  may include memory . Memory  may include, but is not limited to, computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non-volatile storage media, including but not limited to random access memory, read-only memory, programmable read-only memory, electrically programmable read-only memory, electrically erasable read-only memory, flash memory, magnetic tape or disk, optical media and the like. In one example, the memory  may include a cache or random access memory for a processor, such as processor  of computer system  described later. In alternative examples, the memory  is separate from a processor, such as a cache memory of a processor, the system memory, or other memory. The memory  may be an external storage device or database for storing data. Examples include a hard drive, compact disc (\u201cCD\u201d), digital video disc (\u201cDVD\u201d), memory card, memory stick, floppy disc, universal serial bus (\u201cUSB\u201d) memory device, or any other device operative to store data. The memory  may be operable to store instructions executable by a processor. The functions, acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described may be performed by a programmed processor executing the instructions stored in the memory . The functions, acts or tasks are independent of the particular type of instructions set, storage media, processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software, hardware, integrated circuits, firm-ware, micro-code and the like, operating alone or in combination. Likewise, processing strategies may include multiprocessing, multitasking, parallel processing and the like. Memory  may be accessible and\/or in communication with one or more modules of the listener , such as the upper layer application , the stream reservation protocol stack , the MSRP attribute database , and\/or the sparse mode engine . Additionally or alternatively, one or more of the modules of the listener , such as the upper layer application , the stream reservation protocol stack , the MSRP attribute database , and\/or the sparse mode engine , may have internal and\/or memory specific to the module, which may resemble or be similar to memory .","The stream reservation protocol stack  of the listener  may include, be connected with, and\/or be in communication with an MSRP attribute database . The MSRP attribute database  may represent a memory, which may resemble and\/or be similar to memory , a data storage bank, and\/or various other components. The MSRP attribute database  may or may not be or include one or more features of a computer system, such as a computer system  shown in  and described later. The MSRP attribute database  may have an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d) which may be designed to notify an upper layer application whenever a new attribute, such as a talker attribute and\/or talker stream ID, is registered on the network  and\/or received by the stream reservation protocol stack .","As mentioned, one or more of talkers , , and  may have talker attributes, and\/or one or more of the listeners , , and  may have listener attributes. The MSRP attribute database  may represent a database including and\/or storing one or more talker attributes and\/or listener attributes for talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and  on the network . For example, the MSRP attribute database  may include attributes for all talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and  on or connected with a network  such as an Ethernet AVB network. For each talker and\/or listener tracked or included in the MSRP attribute database , the MSRP attribute database  may store or identify where the talker and\/or listener is, how much bandwidth a data stream from the talker may require, how much bandwidth may be available for a listener, a unique stream ID for the talker and\/or listener, and\/or various other pieces of information and\/or data. The MSRP attribute database  may, for example, store information and\/or data indicating that a talker  with a first unique stream ID is connected with an Ethernet AVB network, identifying what information and\/or data to request from the network  and\/or controller  to obtain and\/or register for the data stream from the talker , and what percentage of an Ethernet connection will be used if a listener  has registered for, and\/or begins receiving, the data stream from the talker . Information and\/or data received by the MSRP attribute database , such as one or more stream advertisements from the network , may be transmitted, output, sent, and\/or passed from the stream reservation protocol stack  to the upper layer application .","In some systems, the MSRP attribute database  in each talker , , and  and\/or listener , , and  may be created and\/or updated from a separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database. This separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database may represent one database for multiple or all talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and  on a network . For example, a separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database may be attached and\/or in communication with the network , and\/or may store information and\/or data about one or more talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and . Each talker , , and  and\/or listener , , and  may include a MSRP attribute database , and\/or may have access to the separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database.","The MSRP attribute database  of each talker , , and  and\/or listener , , and  may be a copy of, and\/or include information from, the separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database. In such systems, the separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database may be continuously updated, or updated at various other intervals. In some systems, the separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database may collect and\/or update information based on information and\/or data about stream advertisements and\/or data streams received and\/or stored in each of the MSRP attribute databases  of each of the talkers , , and  and\/or the listeners , , and . Updates may be sent by the separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database to the MSRP attribute database  in each individual talker , , and  and\/or listener , , and  at various intervals, such as every - seconds or so. In these systems, the MSRP attribute database  of each of the talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and  may be the same.","In an alternative example, the MSRP attribute database  may not be on any of the talkers , , and  or listeners , , and  at all, but may exist separately and\/or be in communication with one or more of the talkers and listeners. In another alternative example, parts of a separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database may be extracted from an external database and stored in volatile memory in a talker , , and  or a listener , , and  when the talker or listener is powered up. Various other examples, functions and\/or features of an MSRP attribute database  are possible.","The stream reservation protocol stack  may also include a sparse mode engine . The sparse mode engine  may be configured, adapted, operable, and\/or used during an operation of the listener  in a sparse mode or in a full mode. The sparse mode engine  may be in communication with, connected with, and\/or otherwise enabled to send and\/or receive data to and\/or from the upper layer application , the MSRP attribute database , and\/or the network interface . The sparse mode engine may be an additional and\/or modified hardware component of the listener system or listener , may be encoded in software and\/or stored in memory of the listener , and\/or may be a combination of hardware and\/or software. Various other combinations are possible.","The sparse mode engine  may be, may include, and\/or may be referred to as a sparse mode module, a sparse mode layer, a sparse mode application, and\/or a sparse mode stack. The sparse mode engine  may include a processor, software, hardware or some combination thereof executable by a processor. The sparse mode engine  may communicate with and\/or include memory and\/or a database. The memory and\/or database accessible and utilized by the sparse mode engine  may be a part of the sparse mode engine , or may be a separate component of the listener , such as memory  described later. The memory  may include and\/or store instructions for operation and\/or functions to be performed by the sparse mode engine . Various other examples are possible.","The sparse mode engine  may perform various functions. The sparse mode engine  may receive one or more stream advertisements advertised and\/or sent over the network . In some systems, the sparse mode engine  may register for data streams advertised and\/or sent over a network . Stream advertisements may be received directly from the network , from the network interface , and\/or in various other ways. The sparse mode engine  may receive, identify, and\/or store one or more stream advertisements that may be of interest to, or otherwise requested by, the upper layer application  and\/or the listener . The sparse mode engine  may transmit, output, send, and\/or pass one or more received stream advertisements from the network  to the MSRP attribute database  and\/or to the upper layer application  of the listener . For example, when a listener  is operating in a full mode, the sparse mode engine  may pass most or all received stream advertisements to the MSRP attribute database  and\/or the upper layer application . In a full mode, the sparse mode engine  may be disabled and\/or may function as a pass-through, and\/or may not perform other functions such as comparison and\/or filtering functions.","In another mode, such as when the listener  is operating in a sparse mode, the sparse mode engine  may be configured, adapted, capable, and\/or operable to identify one or more stream advertisements which may be of interest to the listener . The sparse mode engine  may receive one or more specified stream IDs from the upper layer application , which may identify and\/or be related to one or more data streams or talkers that may advertise through or over the network . These specified stream IDs may represent data streams that the listener  is interested in. The upper layer application  may send the information and\/or data about data or data streams of interest to the listener  and\/or upper layer application  through a query, a signal, a list, and\/or a stream ID query.","In the sparse mode, the sparse mode engine  may receive, identify, and\/or determine one or more stream IDs from each of the stream advertisements that the sparse mode engine  may receive from the network . For example, as mentioned, the stream IDs of each talker  may be attached directly to a stream advertisement advertised by the talker  over the network , and the sparse mode engine  may be configured to extract the stream ID and\/or other information from the received stream advertisement. Various other methods of identifying the stream ID are possible.","In the sparse mode, the sparse mode engine  may be configured, adapted, operable, and\/or used to compare the stream IDs of the one or more advertised data streams and\/or stream advertisements received by a listener  to the one or more stream IDs specified by the upper layer application  and\/or the listener . When operating in sparse mode, the sparse mode engine  may transmit, output, send, and\/or pass only those stream advertisements with a stream ID matching at least one of the stream IDs received from the upper layer application  and\/or of interest to the listener  or upper layer application  to the MSRP attribute database  and\/or the upper layer application . The sparse mode engine  may perform various other features.","The stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or the listener  may operate in at least two modes. For example,  shows an example of the stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or listener  operating in a full mode. In full mode, stream advertisements , , , and  may be advertised, transmitted, sent, pass through, and\/or otherwise communicated along or through a network , such as an Ethernet AVB network. One or more listeners, such as listener , may receive and\/or identify each of the stream advertisements , , , and  advertised. For example, a listener  may receive a REGISTER_STREAM.Indication\/DEREGISTER_STREAM.Indication for every stream advertisement , , , and  that is added to or removed from a network .","The stream advertisements , , , and  may be received by the listener  directly and\/or through or using a network interface , such as an Ethernet AVB interface. The stream advertisements , , , and  advertised on the network  may include talker attributes related to a talker , , and  that may have advertised and\/or transmitted the stream advertisements , , , and . For example, each stream advertisement , , , and  may include and\/or be related to a unique stream ID of the talker who advertised the stream advertisement. Stream advertisement  may relate to and\/or have a stream ID of \u201ca,\u201d stream advertisement  may relate to and\/or have a stream ID of \u201cb,\u201d stream advertisement  may relate to and\/or have a stream ID of \u201cc,\u201d and\/or stream advertisement  may relate to and\/or have a stream ID of \u201cd.\u201d Various other configurations are possible.","The stream advertisements , , , and  may be transmitted, output, sent, and\/or passed through the sparse mode engine , which may be disabled and\/or may not affect, alter, process, or otherwise modify the stream advertisements , , , and . The stream advertisements , , , and  may be transmitted, output, sent, and\/or otherwise passed to the MSRP attribute database . The MSRP attribute database  may or may not record a receipt of the stream advertisements , , , and . The MSRP attribute database  may or may not process or alter the stream advertisements , , , and . The MSRP attribute database  may notify and\/or pass all of the stream advertisements , , , and  received by the stream reservation protocol stack  to the upper layer application , such as through or using an application programming interface.","In full mode, all stream advertisements , , , and  received by the listener  may ultimately be sent to the upper layer application . The stream reservation protocol stack  may send a REGISTER_STREAM.Indication\/DEREGISTER_STREAM.Indication for every stream advertisement , , , and  that is added to or removed from a network  to the upper layer application . In some systems, this may result in a lot of messages being passed between the stream reservation protocol stack  and the upper layer application .","The upper layer application  may store information about all of the stream advertisements , , , and  received from the MSRP attribute database . In some systems, the upper layer application  may only be interested in less than all of the stream advertisements , , , and . There may be stream advertisements , , , and  that relate to one or more data streams that the upper layer application  may not be interested in, desire to receive, care about, be capable or dedicated to processing, and\/or otherwise may not be of value to the upper layer application . The upper layer application  may store information about all of the received stream advertisements , , , and , but may, in some systems, only execute functions, take action, and\/or process some of the stream advertisements , , , and , while ignoring functions and\/or stream advertisements , , , and  that may relate to data streams that the listener  is not programmed to process. The upper layer application  may parse through the stream advertisements , , , and  to determine stream advertisements and\/or data streams advertised that are of interest and\/or capable and intended to be processed by the upper layer application  from the remainder of the stream advertisements , , , and . The upper layer application  may not take further action for those stream advertisements , , , and  that are not of interest to the upper layer application . As such, in some systems, an upper layer application  of a listener  may receive and store information and\/or data about stream advertisements that the listener  may not need to store.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["230","210"]},"A stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or listener  may be set to operate in either a full mode or a sparse mode. A stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or listener  may switch or alternate between a full mode and a sparse mode in various ways. For example, an upper layer application  of the listener  may send a mode switch signal  to the stream reservation protocol stack . In circumstances where the listener  is operating in a full mode, the mode switch signal  may be, for example, \u201cMode=Sparse.\u201d In circumstances where the stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or listener  is operating in a sparse mode, the mode switch signal  may be, for example, \u201cMode=Full.\u201d Various other mode switch signals  may be possible, such as where a listener  may be configured, adapted, operable, and\/or used in different modes.","The mode switch signal  received by the stream reservation protocol stack  may trigger and\/or configure the stream reservation protocol stack  to run in the mode specified by the mode switch signal . For example, where a mode switch signal  specifying \u201cMode=Sparse\u201d is received, the stream reservation protocol stack  may operate in a sparse mode. Alternatively, where a mode switch signal  specifying \u201cMode=Full\u201d is received, the stream reservation protocol stack  may operate in a full mode. Various other configurations are possible.","When a sparse mode of operation is desired and\/or specified, such as via a mode switch signal , the upper layer application  may additionally or alternatively send one or more stream IDs to the stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or the spare mode engine . For example, an upper layer application  may send a stream ID query  to the sparse mode engine , identifying one or more stream IDs for which the listener  and\/or upper layer application  may be interested in. For example, the upper layer application  may send a stream ID query  indicating \u201cSID=c\u201d to the sparse mode engine. This stream ID query  of \u201cSID=c\u201d may indicate that the listener  is interested in receiving a data stream with the stream ID of \u201cc\u201d if and when a data stream with a stream ID of \u201cc\u201d is identified as being sent through or across the network . The stream ID query  may also, or alternatively, identify stream IDs that the upper layer application  and\/or listener  may no longer be interested in.","The stream ID query  may be or may be in the form of a REGISTER_QUERY query, and\/or may be used to inform the stream reservation protocol stack  that the upper layer application  is interest in the particular stream ID and wishes to be notified, such as via a REGISTER_STREAM.Indication indication, whenever the stream ID is added to or removed from the network. An example of a stream ID query  may be:\n\nint REGISTER_QUERY (streamID_t*streamID)\n\nThis function may be called to register a stream from a listener's interest list when the listener  is in sparse mode. \u201cstreamID\u201d may be a pointer to a streamID_t structure, to identify the stream. A \u201c0\u201d may be returned if succeeded, and a \u201c\u22121\u201d may be returned if failed.\n","The stream ID query  may be or may be in the form of a DEREGISTER_QUERY query, and\/or may be used to inform the stream reservation protocol stack  that the upper layer application  is no longer interest in the particular stream ID and does not wish to be notified about the stream in the future. An example of a stream ID query  may be:\n\nint DEREGISTER_QUERY (streamID_t*streamID)\n\nThis function may be called to deregister a stream from a listener's interest list when the listener  is in sparse mode. \u201cstreamID\u201d may be a pointer to a streamID_t structure, to identify the stream. A \u201c0\u201d may be returned if succeeded, and a \u201c\u22121\u201d may be returned if failed.\n","The stream ID query  may include more than one stream ID and\/or identify more than one data stream. For example, a stream ID query  may indicate \u201cSID=T, U, V,\u201d indicating the listener  is interested in receiving each of the data streams \u201cT,\u201d \u201cU,\u201d and \u201cV,\u201d if and\/or when each of these streams are advertised through the network . The upper layer application  may identify more than one stream ID in a given stream ID query . The upper layer application  may send more than one stream ID query  to the stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or the sparse mode engine . Various other combinations are possible.","The stream ID query  may identify and\/or specify the stream ID of one or more data streams for which the upper layer application  and\/or the listener  may wish to receive and\/or are interested in and\/or would like to register to receive. A listener  may be interested in various data streams for various reasons. For example, a listener  may be interested in a data stream which the listener  is capable of, designated for, and\/or otherwise required to process and\/or further transmit. A listener  may additionally or alternatively be interested in a data stream which a controller  has told the listener  to register for. For example, where the listener  is a left speaker, the listener  may be interested in information and\/or data related to a left audio signal. The speaker may be configured and\/or operable to output left audio data streams, and therefore may desire, be configured, and\/or be adapted to register for one or more left audio data streams sent through the network . In this example, the upper layer application  may send a stream ID query  to the stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or the sparse mode engine  specifying the stream ID for one or more left audio data streams sent from one or more talkers, such as a microphone talker and\/or a guitar talker. While other data streams, such as video or command data streams, may be passed through or on the network , the listener  may not be capable of processing these video or command data streams. The upper layer application  may not send stream IDs related to the video or command data streams, as receiving and storing information and\/or data related to the video or command stream advertisements and\/or data streams by the speaker listener  may be a waste of memory and\/or resources for the speaker listener .","The stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or the sparse mode engine  may receive the stream ID query  identifying the stream IDs of one or more talkers or data streams that the listener  is interested in. The stream reservation protocol stack  may keep a store and\/or keep track of stream IDs identified in stream ID queries , and\/or stream IDs that have been de-registered for by the upper layer application . The sparse mode engine  may compare each of the stream advertisements , , , and  received over the network  to the stream IDs identified in the stream ID query  and\/or stored by the stream reservation protocol stack . When operating in sparse mode, the sparse mode engine  may not send any stream advertisements to the MSRP attribute database  or the upper layer application  that do not include or match the stream IDs specified in the stream ID query . The sparse mode engine  may only send, forward, or allow to pass through those stream advertisements that are or include a stream ID that matches a stream IDs identified in the stream ID query . The sparse mode engine  may filter out all stream advertisements that relate to data streams that the listener  is not interested in, cannot process, and\/or is not capable of further using or interpreting. Various alternatives are possible.","The mode switch signal  and the stream ID query  may be different signals, with the mode switch signal  being sent prior to a stream ID query . Multiple stream ID queries  may be sent at various times. In other systems, the mode switch signal  and the stream ID query  may be the same signal and\/or may be sent at the same time to the stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or the sparse mode engine . Various combinations are possible.","A stream advertisement, such as stream advertisement , may have a stream ID which may match one or more of the stream IDs sent with the stream ID query . For example, where the stream ID query  specifies a data stream with a stream ID \u201cc,\u201d the stream advertisement , which has or includes a stream ID \u201cc,\u201d may match the stream ID specified in the stream ID query . The sparse mode engine  may identify and\/or determine that the stream advertisement  has a matching stream ID with one of the stream IDs sent with the stream ID query . For example, the sparse mode engine  may identify, determine and\/or extract the talker attributes from the stream advertisements , , , and . The talker attributes may include the stream ID of the talkers who advertised the stream advertisements , , , and . The sparse mode engine  may compare the extracted stream IDs with the stream IDs identified in the stream ID query , and\/or may determine a stream advertisement  that may match one or more of the stream IDs from the stream ID query .","The matching stream advertisement  may be transmitted, output, sent, and\/or passed from the sparse mode engine  to the MSRP attribute database  and\/or to the upper layer application . Operation of the sparse mode engine  when the listener  operates in sparse mode may differ from operation of the sparse mode engine  when the listener  operates in full mode, in that the rest of the stream advertisements , , and  which do not have or match a stream ID from the stream ID query  may not be transmitted, output, sent, and\/or passed from the sparse mode engine  to the MSRP attribute database .","The MSRP attribute database  may or may not record a receipt of the matching stream advertisement . The MSRP attribute database  may or may not process or alter the stream advertisement . In some systems, the MSRP attribute database  may only contain entries for the stream advertisements which match the stream ID query , and\/or may not contain entries for all of the stream advertisements , , , and . The MSRP attribute database  may pass the stream advertisement  to the upper layer application .","The upper layer application  may store information about the stream advertisement  received from the MSRP attribute database . The upper layer application  may process and\/or transmit the received stream advertisement . Other functions are possible.","A stream reservation protocol stack  and\/or listener  may switch back and forth between full mode operation and sparse mode operation in various ways, such as through or using a mode switch signal , and\/or at the direction of a controller . Switching between a full mode and a sparse mode, or between various other modes, may be prompted and\/or result from a signal received by the upper layer application  and\/or the listener . For example, the upper layer application  may receive a signal from a controller  on a network, which may indicate that the listener  should send a mode switch signal  and\/or switch operation to a sparse mode or a full mode. In other systems or circumstances, the upper layer application  may send a mode switch signal  without prompting or receipt of a signal from the controller  or over the network. For example, the upper layer application  may identify, determine, and\/or recognize that a certain amount of memory, resources, and\/or processing power has been or is being used by the listener . The upper layer application  may, based on this determination, switch an operation from a full mode to a sparse mode. In this example, the upper layer application  may, for example, query the controller  and\/or network  for talker attributes and\/or stream IDs of interest to and\/or processed by the listener , or may identify these talker attributes and\/or stream IDs in another way. The upper layer application  may then forward the talker attributes and\/or stream IDs to the stream reservation protocol stack and\/or sparse mode engine . Various other configurations and methods are possible.","The network communication system may include one or more devices which may be Ethernet AVB enabled and may be capable of operating in a sparse mode. The network communication system may include devices that do not use sparse mode. This may be advantageous in that a network communication system may not need to be completely renovated and\/or modified to accommodate sparse mode operation. Instead, devices which are capable of operating in a sparse mode may be added and\/or intermingled with non-sparse mode enabled devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["230","260","210","502","504","230","310","311","312","313","110","504","310","311","312","313","220","210"]},"The method may proceed to block , where it is determined whether or not a sparse mode signal is received. For example, at block  it may be determined whether a mode switch signal  specifying \u201cMode=Sparse\u201d is received by the stream reservation protocol stack  from an upper layer application . If no sparse mode signal is received at block , the method may return to block . In some methods, the stream reservation protocol stack  may continuously receive all stream advertisements from the network  and may forward all received stream advertisements to the upper layer application  up to and until a sparse mode signal, such as a mode switch signal  specifying a sparse mode, is received by the stream reservation protocol stack , at which point the method may proceed to blocks  and .","If a mode switch signal , such as \u201cMode=Sparse,\u201d is received by the stream reservation protocol stack  at block , the method may proceed to block , where the listener  now operates in sparse mode. At block , the stream reservation protocol stack  may receive IDs of data streams of interest from the upper layer application , such as in a stream ID query . In some methods, the stream ID query  may be part of and\/or received simultaneously with a mode switch signal . The received stream IDs identified in the stream ID query  may be stored, for example, in the sparse mode engine . Stream ID queries  may be received at various times when the listener  is operating in sparse mode.","After receiving or otherwise identifying or determining the stream IDs of interest to the listener  from the upper layer application , the method may proceed to block , where the stream reservation protocol stack  receives all stream advertisements from the network. At block , the stream reservation protocol stack  may only forward those stream advertisements which have stream IDs that match the stream IDs identified by the upper layer application , such as in the stream ID query . For example, the sparse mode engine  may compare the stream IDs of the stream advertisements received from or across the network  with those stream IDs identified in the stream ID query , and may only forward and\/or allow to pass those stream advertisements with matching stream IDs.","The method may proceed to block , where it is determined whether or not a full mode signal is received. For example, at block  it may be determined whether a mode switch signal  specifying \u201cMode=Full,\u201d is received by the stream reservation protocol stack  from an upper layer application . If no full mode signal is received at block , the method may return to block . In some methods, the stream reservation protocol stack  may continuously receive all stream advertisements from the network  and may forward only those stream advertisements with matching stream IDs up to and until a full mode signal, such as a mode switch signal  specifying a full mode, is received by the stream reservation protocol stack , at which point the method may proceed to blocks  and .","If a mode switch signal , such as \u201cMode=Full,\u201d is received by the stream reservation protocol stack  at block , the method may return to block , where the listener  now operates in full mode. If no full mode signal was received, the method may return to block . In some other systems, the method may return to block  if no full mode signal is received. In other systems, the method may return to block , but may accept and add any new stream IDs identified by the upper layer application  at any time during operation in sparse mode.","The method may proceed continuously in the manner described above when the listener  is operating. While the method is shown as beginning at block  with the listener  operating in full mode, in other circumstances, the method may begin at block  with the listener operating in sparse mode. In some systems, once stream IDs have first been identified and\/or specified, such as in block , this step may be skipped during subsequent method cycles, and\/or after a listener  has switched operation modes to full mode and then back to sparse mode. Various other alternatives and\/or configurations are possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["210","602","604","230","110","606","210","606","110","210"]},"If the listener  is operating in the full mode, the method may proceed to block , where the stream reservation protocol stack  may forward the received stream advertisement to the upper layer application . This may be done, for example, regardless of the talker who advertised the stream advertisement and\/or the content or information included in the stream advertisement. In this block , the sparse mode engine  may, for example, forward all streams through to the MSRP attribute database , which may then pass the stream advertisements through to the upper layer application . If, alternatively, the listener  is operating in a sparse mode, the method may proceed to block . At block , the sparse mode engine  may compare the received stream advertisement from the network  with any streams identified by the listener  and\/or the upper layer application  as being of interest to the listener , such as those stream IDs identified in a stream ID query . If the stream advertisement received from the network  matches one or more of the streams of interest, such as any of the stream IDs specified in the stream ID query , the method may proceed to block  where the matching stream advertisement is sent by the sparse mode engine  to the MSRP attribute database  and on to the upper layer application . If, at block , the received stream advertisement does not match the streams identified, such as in the stream ID query , the method may proceed to block , and no stream advertisement may be forwarded by the stream reservation protocol stack  to the upper layer application . This method may, for example, be repeated each time a stream advertisement is received by the stream reservation protocol stack  from the network .","A controller  may, in some systems, arrange, orchestrate, and\/or contribute to the operation of the network communication system and\/or various talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and  operating in a sparse mode. For example, the controller  may identify and\/or communicate with one or more talkers , , and  that may be connected with the network . The controller  may identify, specify, assign, and\/or otherwise determine a unique stream ID for each of the talkers , , and . For example, the controller  may record and\/or store designated stream IDs for each of the talkers , , and . Alternatively, the controller  may assign each of the talkers , , and  a unique stream ID, and may record and\/or store information and\/or data about the assigned stream ID. The stream IDs for each of the talkers , , and  may be different from each other, such that an identification of a stream ID may also identify the talker source of the stream. The controller  may store and\/or access a complete list of stream IDs for some or all of the talkers , , and . In some systems, a controller  may access, control, operate, and\/or update a separate and\/or collective MSRP attribute database with information about each of the talkers , , and , and\/or may communicate updates to the MSRP attribute databases  of one or more of the talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and .","The controller  may identify and\/or communicate with one or more of the listeners , , and . The controller  may identify and\/or determine which of the talkers , , and  are of importance, relevant to, and\/or expected to be used by a listener , , and . For example, each of the listeners , , and  may include listener characteristics which may be received and\/or identified by the controller . The listener characteristics may identify the specific talkers and\/or the data types that the listener  may request, require, and\/or be interested in. For example, a listener  that is a speaker may have a listener characteristic that indicates that the listener  is interested in data streams related to a left audio signal. The controller  may communicate with the speaker, and\/or may determine based on the listener characteristic that the speaker will only be responsive to and\/or require data streams that are related to a left audio signal. In other systems, a user may specify to the controller  what talkers , , and  and\/or data streams one or more of the listeners , , and  may be interested in. Various other methods of determining, with a controller , the data streams that a listener  may require or be interested in are possible.","The controller  may send a signal and\/or otherwise communicate with one or more of the listener , , and . The controller  may inform and\/or alert the listeners , , and  of the stream IDs which the listeners , , and  may be interested in. For example, the controller  may communicate with an upper layer application  of the listener  and send to the upper layer application  a list of one or more stream IDs which the listener  may be interested in. This communication from the controller  to the listener  may be made, for example, using a non-SRP protocol and\/or without the use of a stream reservation protocol stack . The controller  may tell a listener  to listen and\/or monitor stream advertisements across a network , and when the listener  sees a particular and\/or specified stream ID for a data stream being advertised with a stream advertisement, to register to receive that data stream. In some systems, when the listener  then enters the sparse mode, the list of one or more stream IDs sent from the controller  to the listener  may be forwarded from the upper layer application  to the sparse mode engine  as a stream ID query , and the system may operate as previously discussed. In these ways, for example, a controller  may assist a listener  in operating in a sparse mode. Other methods of operation are possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["190","130","131","132","140","141","142","702","190","130","131","132","110","190","130","131","132","190","130","131","132"]},"In block , the controller  may identify a listener  connected with the network  and not previous identified by the controller . In block , the controller  may compare a first identified talker  to the identified listener . The controller  may determine, such as through a comparison of talker attributes, listener attributes, listener characteristics and\/or through rules and\/or logic implemented in the controller , whether a stream advertisement and\/or data stream from the first identified talker  may be relevant and\/or of interest to the identified listener . If the stream advertisement and\/or data stream may be relevant, such as in the case of a microphone talker and a microphone speaker listener, the method may move to block . In block , the controller  may include the unique stream ID of the first identified talker  into a list of relevant stream IDs for the identified listener . If, on the other hand, the stream advertisement and\/or data stream is not relevant to the identified listener , the method may move to block  and the controller  may ignore and\/or not add the unique stream ID of the identified talker .","After blocks  or , the method may move to block , where it is determined whether or not there are any talkers that have not yet been compared to the identified listener . Where there are talkers, such as talkers -, that have not yet been compared to the listener  to determine if stream advertisements and\/or data streams from the talkers - may be relevant to the identified listener, the method may return to block , and another talker not previously identified, such as talker , may be compared. This process may continue until all talkers , , and  have been compared to the listener  and the relevancy of all possible stream advertisements and\/or data streams to the identified listener  have been considered.","Where no talkers remain to be compared to the identified listener at block , the method may proceed to block . At block , the controller  may send the completed list of relevant stream IDs, as determined in blocks -, to the identified listener . In some circumstances, the list of relevant stream IDs may be sent together as one piece of information and\/or data. In other circumstances, a relevant stream ID may be sent to the listener  as soon as the controller  has determined that the stream ID may be relevant, such as immediately after block . Various other configurations are possible.","After block , the method may proceed to block , where it is determined whether or not any listeners, such as listeners -, have not yet been identified by the controller . If there are listeners that have not been identified by the controller , the method may return to block , and the controller may identify another listener, such as listener , and proceed through blocks - as previously discussed. This method may continue until lists of relevant stream IDs have been sent to all listeners , , and . If, in block , no listeners have yet to be identified by the controller , the method may end at block . In other systems, the controller  may periodically and\/or continuously search for and identify all talkers , , and  and\/or listeners , , and  on the network, and\/or may update lists of relevant stream IDs sent to the listeners , , and . Various other methods are possible.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["810","810","110","110"]},"The audio video network system may include one or more talkers, such as front video camera , side video camera , and a microphone . One or more of the front video camera , side video camera , and a microphone  may be Ethernet AVB enabled devices. In some systems, the audio video network system may include more or less talkers. For example, the audio video network may include ten different video cameras recording video at ten different positions on a stage, ten different microphones recording audio from ten different sources, and\/or various other talkers. Various numbers and combinations of talkers may be included in the network. While the talkers in the audio video network system may be, and may be described as, the actual devices themselves, such as a video camera or a microphone, it should be appreciated that in some systems, the talker may be or may include a computer or other electronic controlling device which may be used and\/or operate to control the video camera or the microphone, such as some or all of the features of a computer system  shown in  and described later.","The front video camera  may, for example, be a video camera directed to a front of a stage. The side video camera  may be a video camera directed to a side of the stage, and may otherwise function similarly to the front video camera . The front video camera  and\/or side video camera  may record, receive, process, and\/or distribute information and data related to a video recorded by the front video camera  and\/or side video camera . The front video camera  and\/or side video camera  may advertise, output, and\/or communicate, such as through a stream advertisement, that the front video camera  has information and\/or data related to the recorded video that the front video camera  wishes to stream across the Ethernet AVB network , such as with or using a data stream or other data signal. This stream advertisement may be received by one or more of the other talkers and listeners connected with the Ethernet AVB network , which, if interested in the stream, may register for and\/or receive the advertised data streams. One or both of the front video camera  and side video camera  may advertise information and\/or data streams across the Ethernet AVB network  simultaneously, such as with simultaneous stream advertisements.","The microphone  may, for example, be a microphone placed on a stage. The microphone may record, received, process, and\/or distribute information and data related to audio recorded by the microphone . The microphone  may advertise, output, and\/or communicate, such as with a stream advertisement, that the microphone  wishes to stream the information and\/or data related to the recorded audio across the Ethernet AVB network  with or using a data stream or other data signal. This stream advertisement may be received by one or more of the other talkers and listeners connected with the Ethernet AVB network , which, if interested in the stream, may register for and\/or receive the advertised data streams. Information may be advertised by the microphone  and one or more other talkers simultaneously, such as with simultaneous stream advertisements. In some systems, no data is sent by a talker, such as the microphone , when no registrations for the data streams have been received.","The audio video network system may include one or more listeners, such as the left lights , the right lights , the left speaker , the right speaker , the side monitor , and\/or the front monitor . One or more of the left lights , the right lights , the left speaker , the right speaker , the side monitor , and\/or the front monitor  may be Ethernet AVB enabled devices. In some systems, the audio video network system may include more or less listeners. For example, the audio video network may include ten different speakers at ten different positions facing an audience, ten different television monitors showing ten different videos from ten different sources, and\/or various other listeners. Various numbers and combinations of listeners may be included in the network. While the listeners in the audio video network system may be, and may be described as, the actual devices themselves, such as the left lights or front monitor, it should be appreciated that in some systems, the listener may be or may include a computer or other electronic controlling device which may be used and\/or operate to control the left lights or front monitor, such as some or all of the features of a computer system  shown in  and described later.","The left lights  and the right lights  may, for example, be lights or light controlling electronics connected to the lights. The left lights  and\/or the right lights  may operate based on signals received over the network . For example, the left lights  may turn on when a \u201cleft lights=ON\u201d signal is received across the network, such as from the mixing board . The right lights  may turn on when a \u201cright lights=ON\u201d signal is received across the network, such as from the mixing board . The left lights  and\/or the right lights  may not process or have any response to other commands or signals, such as audio signals advertised by the microphone . The left lights  and\/or the right lights  may receive and store information about received stream advertisements and\/or data streams, but may otherwise ignore such commands or signals.","The left speaker  and the right speaker  may be audio speakers or audio speaker controlling electronics connected to a left and\/or right speaker. The left speaker  and\/or right speaker  may, for example, respond to and\/or operate based on audio data streams or signals received over the network . For example, the left speaker  may process and\/or output a left audio data stream or signal over the network, such as a left audio data stream from the mixing board  and\/or from the microphone . The right speaker  may process and\/or output a right audio data stream or signal over the network, such as a right audio data stream from the mixing board  and\/or from the microphone . The left speaker  and\/or the right speaker  may not process or have any response to other commands or signals, such as light control signals advertised by the mixing board or video data streams or signals advertised by the front video camera  or side video camera . The left speaker  and\/or the right speaker  may receive and store information about received stream advertisements and\/or data streams, but may otherwise ignore such commands or signals.","The side monitor  and the front monitor  may be video monitors such as television monitors or video monitor controlling electronics connected with video monitors. The side monitor  and\/or front monitor  may, for example, respond to and\/or operate based on received video data streams or signals received over the network, such as data streams advertised and\/or sent by the side video camera  and\/or the front video camera . For example, the side monitor  may process and\/or output a side video data stream or signal advertised over the network , such as a side video data stream from the side video camera  or the mixing board . The front monitor  may process and\/or output a front video data stream or signal advertised over the network , such as a front video data stream from the front video camera  or the mixing board . The side monitor  and the front monitor  may not process or have any response to other commands or signals, such as light control signals advertised by the mixing board  or audio data streams or signals advertised by the microphone . The side monitor  and the front monitor  may receive and store information about received stream advertisements and\/or data streams, but may otherwise ignore such commands or signals.","The mixing board  of the system may perform numerous functions. In some systems, one or all of the talkers and\/or listeners may be connected to the mixing board . The mixing board  may act as a hub for all of the stream advertisements, data streams and\/or signals sent by talkers across the network . In some systems, the mixing board  may adjust and\/or process data streams that may be sent by talkers across the network . In other systems, one or more talkers and\/or listeners may be directly connected, and\/or the data streams from the talkers may pass across the network  and\/or may not be received and\/or monitored or controlled by the mixing board . The mixing board  may be or may include an application and\/or computer program which may allow a user to pre-arrange, create, and\/or edit the responsibilities of talkers and listeners, such as throughout a performance on a stage.","The mixing board  may identify, specify, and\/or store information regarding each of the talkers, such as the front video camera , the side video camera , and\/or the microphone . The mixing board  may identify, or in some cases may assign, a specific and\/or unique stream ID to each of the talkers , , and\/or .","Any of the listeners , , , , , and\/or  may operate in one or more modes, such as in a sparse mode or a full mode. In some systems, the mixing board  may identify and\/or receive information from one or more of the listeners , , , , , and\/or . The mixing board  may identify and\/or determine those talkers , , and\/or , stream advertisements, stream IDs, and\/or data streams sent from those talkers , , and\/or  which may be of interest and\/or used by each of the listeners , , , , , and\/or .","The mixing board  may communicate to each of the listeners , , , , , and\/or  the specific and\/or unique stream IDs of the data streams from the talkers , , and\/or  of interest and\/or useful to the listeners. The stream IDs sent by the mixing board  may be sent to a sparse mode engine  in each listener that is, is to be, and\/or is configured or operable to be operated in sparse mode. The sparse mode engine  of each listener , , , , , and\/or  may then only pass those stream advertisements with a stream ID matching those stream IDs sent by the mixing board  onto the upper layer applications  of the listener operating in sparse mode. In some systems, the mixing board  may communicate the specific and\/or unique stream IDs of talkers that are of interest to listeners only when the listeners are operating in, or capable of operating in, sparse mode. In other systems, the mixing board  may communicate the specific and\/or unique stream IDs of talkers that are of interest to listeners to all listeners , , , , , and\/or . Various other combinations are possible. Each of the listeners , , , , , and\/or  that are capable of operating in both a sparse mode and\/or a full mode may be configured and\/or operate in either mode in a manner similar to the listeners , , and  and\/or listener  as previous described. Various other configurations are possible.","In some systems, no controller  may be necessary or included. For example, in some systems, one or more listeners , , and  may be programmed to know one or more talkers , , and  which the listener , , and  may be interested in. In these systems, the sparse mode engine  of the listener , , and  may still receive a stream ID query  from the upper layer application  identifying those stream IDs that the listener may be interested in, or the sparse mode engine  may already be programmed to know the stream IDs that the listener is interested in. In these systems, the sparse mode engine  may operate to filter out stream advertisements that are not relevant or of interest to the listener .","A situation where a controller  may not be required may exist, for example, in systems which are unlikely to change or add talkers or listeners over an extended period of time. An example of such a system may be the automobile communication system shown in . The automobile communication system in  may include one or more of front speakers , rear speakers , a CD player , a radio , a rear seating display monitor , a DVD player , and\/or a head unit .","The front speakers  may be programmed to recognize and play audio from audio data streams and\/or signals advertised by the CD player  and\/or the radio . The front speakers  may include rules and\/or logic to determine which audio data streams and\/or signals to play, when audio data streams are received from both the CD player  and the radio .","The front speakers  may be similar to and\/or resemble any of the listeners , , and  and\/or listener . The front speakers  may have an upper layer application  which may control the operation of the physical speakers, and a stream reservation protocol stack  which may include a sparse mode engine . The upper layer application  and\/or the sparse mode engine  may be programmed and\/or aware that the only stream advertisements and\/or data streams of importance to the front speakers  may be those stream advertisements and\/or data streams from the talker CD player  and the talker radio . Where the upper layer application  is programmed, the upper layer application may send a mode switch signal  to the sparse mode engine  to initiate and\/or switch between a full mode operation and a sparse mode operation. In other systems, the sparse mode engine  may already know the stream IDs. In these systems, the sparse mode engine  may be permanently activated and\/or operate in a sparse mode continuously, or alternatively may be directed and\/or controlled by mode switch signals  from the upper layer application . In either case, in sparse mode, the sparse mode engine  may operate as in listener  previous discussed, and may only transmit, output, send, forward, and\/or pass stream advertisements with stream IDs that match the stream IDs of the CD player  and\/or the talker radio .","The rear speakers  may be similar to and\/or resemble any of the listeners , , and  and\/or listener , and\/or may resemble the front speakers  in operation. The upper layer application  and\/or the sparse mode engine  of the rear speakers  may be programmed and\/or aware that the only stream advertisements and\/or data streams of importance to the rear speakers  may be those stream advertisements and\/or data streams from the talker CD player , the talker radio , and\/or the DVD player . The rear speakers  may include rules and\/or logic to determine which audio data streams and\/or signals to play, when audio data streams are received from more than one of the CD player , the radio , and\/or the DVD player . Where the upper layer application  is programmed, the upper layer application may send a mode switch signal  to the sparse mode engine  to initiate and\/or switch between a full mode operation and a sparse mode operation. In other systems, the sparse mode engine  may already know the stream IDs. In these systems, the sparse mode engine  may be permanently activated and\/or operate in a sparse mode continuously, or alternatively may be directed and\/or controlled by mode switch signals  from the upper layer application . In sparse mode, the sparse mode engine  of the rear speakers  may operate as in listener  previous discussed, and may only transmit, output, send, forward, and\/or pass stream advertisements with stream IDs that match the stream IDs of the CD player , the talker radio , and\/or the DVD player .","The rear seating display monitor  may be similar to and\/or resemble any of the listeners , , and  and\/or listener , and\/or may resemble the front speakers  or rear speakers  in operation. The upper layer application  and\/or the sparse mode engine  of the rear seating display monitor  may be programmed and\/or aware that the only stream advertisements and\/or data streams of importance to the rear seating display monitor  may be those stream advertisements and\/or data streams from the DVD player . Where the upper layer application  is programmed, the upper layer application may send a mode switch signal  to the sparse mode engine  to initiate and\/or switch between a full mode operation and a sparse mode operation. In other systems, the sparse mode engine  may already know the stream IDs. In these systems, the sparse mode engine  may be permanently activated and\/or operate in a sparse mode continuously, or alternatively may be directed and\/or controlled by mode switch signals  from the upper layer application . In sparse mode, the sparse mode engine  of rear seating display monitor  may operate as in listener  previous discussed, and may only transmit, output, send, forward, and\/or pass stream advertisements with stream IDs that match the stream IDs of the DVD player .","The system may also include a head unit . In some systems, the head unit  may act as a controller , but this is not required. The head unit  may, in some circumstances, operate and\/or control one or more of the talkers, such as the CD player , the radio , and\/or the DVD player . In some systems, the head unit  may perform and\/or determine the rules or logic which may identify what data stream is to be processed and\/or played by one or more of the listeners, but this is not required.","Various other systems may use and\/or incorporate the sparse mode features and components described. For example, a home theater system may have numerous talkers, such as DVD players, HDMI devices, mp3 players, cable boxes, satellite receivers, and various other talkers, as well as numerous listeners, such as speakers, television screens, and various other listeners. In some home theater systems, a talker\/listener, such as an audio-video receiver or other receiver, may be attached and\/or connected with one or more of the talkers and listeners, such as over an Ethernet AVB network. The talkers, listeners, and\/or talker\/listeners of the home theater network may operate and\/or resemble the talkers , , and , the listeners , , and , and\/or the talker\/listener . In another example, a sparse mode engine and\/or sparse mode capabilities may be added to numerous other devices, such as a matrix controller. While the systems and methods described may often be discussed in connection with MSRP attributes, it should be appreciated that these techniques may be applied to Multiple MAC Registration Protocol (\u201cMMRP\u201d) attributes as well. Other variations are possible.","One or more of the talkers , , and , listeners , , and , talker\/listeners , and\/or controllers  may be and\/or may include a portion or all of one or more computing devices of various kinds, such as the computing device in .  illustrates an example of a general computer system designated . Any of the components from the listener , such as the upper layer application , the stream reservation protocol stack , the MSRP attribute database , and\/or the spare mode engine , may include a portion or all of the computer system . The computer system  can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system  to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed. The computer system  may operate as a standalone device or may be connected, e.g., using a network, to other computer systems or peripheral devices.","In a networked deployment, the computer system  may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server-client user network environment, or as a peer computer system in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment. The computer system  can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices, such as a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile device, a palmtop computer, a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a communications device, a wireless telephone, a land-line telephone, a control system, a camera, a scanner, a facsimile machine, a printer, a pager, a personal trusted device, a web appliance, a network router, switch or bridge, or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular example, the computer system  can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice, audio, video or data communication. Further, while a single computer system  is illustrated, the term \u201csystem\u201d shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub-systems that individually or jointly execute a set, or multiple sets, of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.","As illustrated in , the computer system  may include a processor , e.g., a central processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), or both. The processor  may be a component in a variety of systems. For example, the processor  may be part of a standard personal computer or a workstation. The processor  may be one or more general processors, digital signal processors, application specific integrated circuits, field programmable gate arrays, servers, networks, digital circuits, analog circuits, combinations thereof, or other now known or later developed devices for analyzing and processing data. The processor  may implement a software program, such as code generated manually (i.e., programmed).","The term \u201cmodule\u201d may be defined to include a plurality of executable modules. As described herein, the modules are defined to include software, hardware or some combination thereof executable by a processor, such as processor . Software modules may include instructions stored in memory, such as memory , or another memory device, that are executable by the processor  or other processor. Hardware modules may include various devices, components, circuits, gates, circuit boards, and the like that are executable, directed, and\/or controlled for performance by the processor .","The computer system  may include a memory , such as a memory  that can communicate via a bus . The memory  may be a main memory, a static memory, or a dynamic memory. The memory  may include, but is not limited to computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non-volatile storage media, including but not limited to random access memory, read-only memory, programmable read-only memory, electrically programmable read-only memory, electrically erasable read-only memory, flash memory, magnetic tape or disk, optical media and the like. In one example, the memory  includes a cache or random access memory for the processor . In alternative examples, the memory  is separate from the processor , such as a cache memory of a processor, the system memory, or other memory. The memory  may be an external storage device or database for storing data. Examples include a hard drive, compact disc (\u201cCD\u201d), digital video disc (\u201cDVD\u201d), memory card, memory stick, floppy disc, universal serial bus (\u201cUSB\u201d) memory device, or any other device operative to store data. The memory  is operable to store instructions executable by the processor . The functions, acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described may be performed by the programmed processor  executing the instructions stored in the memory . The functions, acts or tasks are independent of the particular type of instructions set, storage media, processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software, hardware, integrated circuits, firm-ware, micro-code and the like, operating alone or in combination. Likewise, processing strategies may include multiprocessing, multitasking, parallel processing and the like.","As shown, the computer system  may or may not further include a display unit , such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), an organic light emitting diode (OLED), a flat panel display, a solid state display, a cathode ray tube (CRT), a projector, a printer or other now known or later developed display device for outputting determined information. The display  may act as an interface for the user to see the functioning of the processor , or specifically as an interface with the software stored in the memory  or in the drive unit .","Additionally, the computer system  may include an input device  configured to allow a user to interact with any of the components of system . The input device  may be a number pad, a keyboard, or a cursor control device, such as a mouse, or a joystick, touch screen display, remote control or any other device operative to interact with the computer system .","In a particular example, as depicted in , the computer system  may also include a disk or optical drive unit . The disk drive unit  may include a computer-readable medium  in which one or more sets of instructions , e.g. software, can be embedded. Further, the instructions  may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described. In a particular example, the instructions  may reside completely, or at least partially, within the memory  and\/or within the processor  during execution by the computer system . The memory  and the processor  also may include computer-readable media as discussed above.","The present disclosure contemplates a computer-readable medium that includes instructions  or receives and executes instructions  responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network  can communicate voice, video, audio, images or any other data over the network . Further, the instructions  may be transmitted or received over the network  via a communication port or interface , and\/or using a bus . The communication port or interface  may be a part of the processor  or may be a separate component. The communication port  may be created in software or may be a physical connection in hardware. The communication port  may be configured to connect with a network , external media, the display , or any other components in system , or combinations thereof. The connection with the network  may be a physical connection, such as a wired Ethernet connection or may be established wirelessly as discussed later. Likewise, the additional connections with other components of the system  may be physical connections or may be established wirelessly. The network  may alternatively be directly connected to the bus .","The network  may include wired networks, wireless networks, Ethernet AVB networks, or combinations thereof. The wireless network may be a cellular telephone network, an 802.11, 802.16, 802.20, 802.1Q or WiMax network. Further, the network  may be a public network, such as the Internet, a private network, such as an intranet, or combinations thereof, and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including, but not limited to TCP\/IP based networking protocols.","While the computer-readable medium is shown to be a single medium, the term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d may include a single medium or multiple media, such as a centralized or distributed database, and\/or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d may also include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed. The \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d may be non-transitory, and may be tangible.","In an example, the computer-readable medium can include a solid-state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non-volatile read-only memories. Further, the computer-readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re-writable memory. Additionally, the computer-readable medium can include a magneto-optical or optical medium, such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e-mail or other self-contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is a tangible storage medium. Accordingly, the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer-readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media, in which data or instructions may be stored.","In an alternative example, dedicated hardware implementations, such as application specific integrated circuits, programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices, can be constructed to implement various parts of the system. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more examples described may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules, or as portions of an application-specific integrated circuit. Accordingly, the present system encompasses software, firmware, and hardware implementations.","The system described may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further, in a non-limited example, implementations can include distributed processing, component\/object distributed processing, and parallel processing. Alternatively, virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement various parts of the system.","The system is not limited to operation with any particular standards and protocols. For example, standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission (e.g., TCP\/IP, UDP\/IP, HTML, HTTP) may be used. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly, replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed are considered equivalents thereof.","Operation of a listener  in sparse mode may be advantageous to the listener  for many reasons. Listeners , , and  connected with a network  may be configured and\/or operable to receive and store stream advertisements and\/or data streams of interest to the listeners , , and  at the upper layer applications . This may free up memory, processing power, and\/or other resources of the listeners , , and , which may be dedicated and\/or used for other functions. Sparse mode and\/or sparse mode engines may allow an Ethernet AVB end-station and\/or device to only report and store information related to stream IDs the device is interested in. The upper layer applications  of the listener  may not receive, have to parse through, and\/or store information related to stream advertisements and\/or data streams which the listener  may not be interested in and\/or further process. For example, a listener  that may be a speaker may not understand, process, and\/or care about a video data stream from a front camera. The listener  may be a low power and limited memory device. In full mode, the listener  may still, however, receive at least the stream advertisements from the front camera, and may be required to consider and\/or store information related to the video data stream. In sparse mode, the upper layer application  may not receive the stream advertisement, which the upper layer application  is not interested in, and may not have to devote any resources or memory to the video data stream. As such, upper layer application  and\/or listener  may not occupy resources and\/or memory to stream advertisements and\/or data streams that may be irrelevant to the upper layer application . This may free up resources for the upper layer application  and\/or listener  that can be devoted to other processes of more interest to the upper layer application  and\/or listener .","Sparse mode and\/or sparse mode engines may reduce CPU overhead and memory storage requirements in AVB enabled devices, which may become increasingly important and effective as more data streams are added to a network . This may allow AVB enabled devices with low power and\/or small footprints to co-exist with large stream count networks. In addition, more powerful devices may take advantage of sparse mode to allow more system resources to be available for other purposes, including, but not limited to, a more responsive \u201cfeel\u201d to the user.","In addition, configuring the listeners , , and  to be capable of operating in a sparse mode may require minimal adjustments, such as adding a sparse mode engine . Also, switching between operation in a full mode and a sparse mode may merely require a signal or other notification, such as a mode switch signal , to be sent to the sparse mode engine , leaving all other components of the listeners , , and  unchanged and\/or undisturbed and\/or operating in a continuous and\/or unchanging mode. No components of the listener  may need to be reconfigured and\/or altered between a full mode and a sparse mode, other than a sparse mode engine . Another advantage may be that devices which may be operable in sparse mode may be intermingled with non-sparse mode devices in a network without required a reconfiguration of the network.","As another advantages, in some systems, the upper layer application  of a listener  may experience a software restart because of a firmware update. When that happens, the listener  may either restart stream reservation protocol stack , which wasn't affected by the restart, or may query the stream reservation protocol stack  with a special stream ID query. The special stream ID query may request information about every stream a sparse mode engine  has already heard about. Normally a firmware update and restart would cause a temporary interruption in A\/V streaming. By allowing the hardware to continue to play the A\/V streams while the upper layer application  is reset, the sparse mode may make the reset transparent to someone listening to the audio or watching the video streams. Various other advantages of the above-described system are possible.","While various embodiments of the invention have been described, it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The system may be better understood with reference to the following drawings and description. The components in the figures are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention. Moreover, in the figures, like referenced numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the different views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
