---
title: Open data marketplace for municipal services
abstract: Providing an open data marketplace may include identifying one or more data attributes from a plurality of applications registered with a shared data management system; mapping said one or more data attributes to a data model to create a first set of mapped data; augmenting said first set of mapped data with additional data imported into the shared data management system from other data locations to create an augmented set of mapped data; receiving one or more of second set of mapped data from one or more shared data management system associated respectively with one or more shared data management networks; enabling of composing a data set by combining and cleansing one or more of said first set of mapped data, said second set of mapped data, and said augmented set of mapped data; and offering said composed data set in a digital marketplace with associated pricing characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652790&OS=09652790&RS=09652790
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09652790
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110617
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application relates generally to computers and applications, and more particularly to open electronic data marketplace in a software-as-a-service platform.","In many entities still, in-house IT applications are poorly integrated, for example, with disparate applications running on their own, even when there are commonalities in the data those applications use. In such cases, data updated by one application is usually imported to another application manually. For instance, an IT administrator may have to manually access data updated or used by one application and load on to another application.","Take for example, local or municipal government's IT applications used to support service delivery for the municipalities. Those applications typically are aligned directly to the departmental structure, with application(s) covering only the tasks associated with a single department. However, services offered and provided to citizens often involve the work of many departments. Consider, for example, a parcel that has been recently renovated by its owners. The parcel owner applies for a building permit from the Building department. After the work has been completed and the Certificate of Occupancy has been issued, the Assessor's office must update the parcel details to reflect the renovations and initiate a parcel reassessment. The newly assessed value has to be updated in the tax system for calculation of the property tax liability. Finally, the property tax payments collected by the tax department are directly entered into the tax system, and must later be updated in and reconciled with the accounts of the Finance department's General Ledger. This example describes the complex interactions between four departments as part of the administration for parcel management services including the renovations, assessment and property tax processes.","In many cases, the departments all use distinct, nonintegrated, custom software programs to aid in their work. Additionally, departments may also use paper-based records and manual record-keeping. Municipalities may choose to pay for pair-wise integration between software applications or purchase preintegrated software packages, especially for departments that share information frequently. Departments such as Police and Justice, Assessment and Tax, Personnel and Finance rely heavily on the sharing of information that is central to their work. The Police department must notify the Justice department of arrest and investigation details as input to current and future court cases. The Assessment department must periodically give the Tax department the tax roll, a listing of all taxable parcels, their current assessment values, and valid exemptions. The Personnel department (and\/or individual departments) maintains information on employee pay rates, raises, benefits, and work hours. These factors are used to calculate semi-monthly pay to produce payroll checks.","Although municipalities have the choice to pay for integration between independent applications, the cost is usually prohibitive. Additionally, the association of IT applications to a single specific department can be a limiting factor for service offerings. The applications are not flexible to adapt to new needs, therefore the only way currently to have this information reflected in multiple department software is through constant manual transmission and inputting.","A method and system for open data marketplace may be provided. The method, in one aspect, may include identifying one or more data attributes from a plurality of applications registered with a shared data management system and mapping said one or more data attributes to a data model to create a first set of mapped data. The method may also include augmenting said first set of mapped data with additional data imported into the shared data management system from other data locations to create an augmented set of mapped data, and receiving one or more of second set of mapped data from one or more shared data management system associated respectively with one or more shared data management networks. The method may further include enabling of composing a data set by combining and cleansing one or more of said first set of mapped data, said second set of mapped data, and said augmented set of mapped data, and offering said composed data set in a digital marketplace with associated pricing characteristics.","A system for open data marketplace, in one aspect, may include a shared data management module operable to identify one or more data attributes from a plurality of applications registered with a shared data management system. The shared data management module may be further operable to map said one or more data attributes to a data model to create a first set of mapped data. The shared data management module may be further operable to augment said first set of mapped data with additional data imported into the shared data management system from other data locations to create an augmented set of mapped data. The shared data management module may be further operable to receive one or more of second set of mapped data from one or more shared data management system associated respectively with one or more shared data management networks, enable composing of a data set by combining and cleansing one or more of said first set of mapped data, said second set of mapped data, and said augmented set of mapped data. The shared data management module may be further operable to offer said composed data set in a digital marketplace with associated pricing characteristics.","A computer readable storage medium storing a program of instructions executable by a machine to perform one or more methods described herein also may be provided.","Further features as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings, like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements.","Shared data management (SDM) enables platform-mediated data sharing among applications, for example, in Software-as-a-Service platform. Software-as-a-Service or SaaS refers to providing the use of software or application as a service on demand, for instance, by subscription, e.g., in a \u201cpay-as-you-go\u201d model. A customer or a user subscribes for the use of a software application, for instance, as needed by the customer. Typically, an application being provided as a service is resident in a remote platform which a customer may access via a network (e.g., the Internet via a browser or the like interface). The remote platform may include a number of different applications. For instance, a provider of SaaS provides a computing platform and resources for running applications. The applications need not have been developed by the provider, but may have been deployed and set up on the platform by independent software vendors. SDM provides a common database system, a common data object schema or model, and logic or algorithms for enabling those applications to share data. SDM is described in detail in co-owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/051,303 entitled, \u201cShared Data Management in Software-As-A-Service Platform\u201d and filed on Mar. 18, 2011, which application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Co-owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/163,177 entitled, \u201cDynamic Application Adaptation in Software-As-A-Service Platform\u201d and filed on Jun.17, 2011 describes dynamic application adaptation, co-owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/163,373 entitled, \u201cEnforcing Data Sharing Policy through Shared Data Management\u201d and filed on Jun. 17, 2011 describes enforcing data sharing. Those applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"102"},"Consolidation may be also performed to include data from other sources , e.g., census data, other data from information providing companies such as Dun & Bradstreet and Acxiom, sensor network data such as transit data, for comprehensive, consolidated consistent views. The consolidated data may be offered through a market place. For instance, the users (buyers and sellers) may be enabled to trade data with marketplace services implemented on SDM. The marketplace services implemented on SDM may enable users to view and explore the data, provide security, access control, data import, data access and export, transaction and analysis capabilities. A transaction refers to a software support for executing an agreement between a buyer and a seller to exchange a data asset for payment. It also implies a database transaction which comprises a unit of work performed within a database management system (e.g., SDM system) against the SDM database, and treated in a coherent and reliable way independent of other data transactions. The consolidation in one embodiment of the present disclosure provides for a single logical SDM view and the market place services in one or more networks of SDM.","In addition to endogenous data available through an SDM, applications (e.g., , , . . . ) running on a SaaS platform (e.g., government data platform)  with SDM  may be provided with data from external data sources , e.g., sensor networks, federal government and census data, commercial demographic information from vendors or third party companies, data mined from social networks. Conversely, data managed by SDM may be offered to external data collectors  and applications .","A data marketplace of the present disclosure may include one or more of data services, including but not limited to the following services. Data view service  enables the users of the marketplace (e.g., buyer and sellers) to view and explore data available in SDM . Data import service  enables one or more external data sources (sellers) to share their data through SDM . This service may be built on SDM  to support SDM's functionality, including data stewardship, point-in-time history, source value, document attachments, and rules of visibility. The imported data may be presented on the common shared object model (also referred to as a data model) in SDM  and consolidated with data originated from applications , , . . . , deployed on the SaaS platform .","Data catalog service  enables external data sources  to generate a \u201ctrading data set\u201d. A \u201ctrade data set\u201d includes a set of business objects and its attributes to be offered or requested. This service also enables a policy or constrains to be specified at business object or attribute level. Data security service  provides authentication and authorization services to the users of the open data marketplaces, e.g., sellers and buyers. Authentication is the process of verifying a claim made by a subject that it should be allowed to act on behalf of a given principal (e.g., person, computer, process, and other). In a computer system like the data marketplace system of the present disclosure, authentication may be performed with a user logging in to the system with a user name and a password. Authorization involves verifying that an authenticated subject has permission to perform certain operations or access specific resources. In the data marketplace system of the present disclosure in one embodiment, the services authorized to buyers and sellers may be different from what is authorized to the administrator. In addition, there may be different levels of services or privileges authorized to different levels of the users (buyers and sellers), e.g., standard users vs. premium services, and others. The authorization service of the system in one embodiment of the present disclosure controls the access.","Data access control service  enables role-based access control over data available through SDM . This service may be built on SDM  to support its business functionality, including data stewardship, point-in-time history, source value, document attachments, and rules of visibility. Data trade service  provides various trade options for buyers and sellers to trade data in the marketplace, for instance, supporting various types of auctions including, but not limited to English auction, Dutch auction, Sealed first-price auction, Vickrey auction, Online Timeshift Auction, Multi-unit auction, Reverse auctions, No-Reverse auction. Trade options refer to fixed-price trade vs. non-fixed price trade (including auctions), monetary trade vs. non-money trade, trade on cash, credit card, paypal or other means of payment.","An English auction is a type of auction, whose most typical form is the \u201copen outcry\u201d auction. The auctioneer opens the auction by announcing a Suggested Opening Bid, a starting price or reserve for the item on sale and then accepts increasingly higher bids from the floor consisting of buyers with a possible interest in the item. Unlike sealed bid auctions, \u201copen outcry\u201d auctions are \u201copen\u201d or fully transparent as the identity of all bidders is disclosed to each other bidder during the auction. The highest bidder at any given moment is considered to have the standing bid, which can only be displaced by a higher bid from a competing buyer. If no competing bidder challenges the standing bid within a given time frame, the standing bid becomes the winner, and the item is sold to the highest bidder at a price equal to his or her bid. More generally an auction mechanism is considered \u201cEnglish\u201d if it involves an iterative process of adjusting the price in a direction that is unfavorable to the bidders (increasing in price if the item is being sold to competing buyers or decreasing in price in a reverse auction with competing sellers).","A Dutch auction is a type of auction where the auctioneer begins with a high asking price which is lowered until some participant is willing to accept the auctioneer's price, or a predetermined reserve price (the seller's minimum acceptable price) is reached. The winning participant pays the last announced price. This is also known as a \u201cclock auction\u201d or an open-outcry descending-price auction. This type of auction is convenient when it is important to auction goods quickly, since a sale never requires more than one bid. Theoretically, the bidding strategy and results of this auction are equivalent to those in a sealed first-price auction.","A first-price sealed-bid auction is a form of auction where bidders submit one bid in a concealed fashion. The submitted bids are then compared and the person with the highest bid wins the award, and pays the amount of his bid to the seller. A Vickrey auction is a type of sealed-bid auction, where bidders submit written bids without knowing the bid of the other people in the auction, and in which the highest bidder wins, but the price paid is the second-highest bid. The auction was created by William Vickrey. This type of auction is strategically similar to an English auction, and gives bidders an incentive to bid their true value. Online Time shift Auctions is similar to English auction but it can provide more accurate information about the interest in the auctioned item, avoid auction snipping, and encourage early bidding. A multiunit auction is an auction in which several items are sold. The units can be sold each at the same price (a uniform price auction) or at different prices (a discriminatory price auction). A reverse auction is a type of auction in which the roles of buyers and sellers are reversed. In an ordinary auction (also known as a forward auction), buyers compete to obtain a good or service, and the price typically increases over time. In a reverse auction, sellers compete to obtain business, and prices typically decrease over time.","Data export service  enables one or more external applications  (e.g., buyers) to access data through the SDM . The external application  accesses data in read-only mode in one embodiment of the present disclosure. A data buyer who has one or more applications may make a trade in the data marketplace system. Once the transaction is completed, the data export service  provides one or mechanisms through which the buyer's applications can access the purchased data in SDM. One such mechanism can be private data storage where the applications can read the data by using data query languages; another mechanism can be a set of application programming interface (API) which can be used by the application to directly read the purchased data in SDM. The buyer's applications may access the purchased data through one or more of the mechanisms provided by the data export service . The data marketplace system monitors the data transfer to ensure it accords the agreement made in the data trade transaction. Data analysis service  may analyze the data and data transfer.","SDM  as described above also enables platform-mediated data sharing among applications, for example, in Software-as-a-Service platform . A customer or a user  subscribes for the use of a software application , , . . . , for instance, as needed by the customer. Shared data editor service  enables users (administrators) to specify permissions to the shared objects. Live application catalog service  enables the display or presentation of a multitude of applications available for subscription in the platform. Because new applications may be added to the platform and existing applications can be removed from the system or hidden from one or more sets of the users, the catalog of the applications can be dynamically updated. Data access control service  enables the authentication and authorization of various users of the system, for example, as described above with reference to . Workspace service  enables the administrator to view and work on tentative systems after making any changes to the permissions of applications in SDM but before deploying to the end users. Application analysis service  enables to collect, analyze and report of the use (subscription) of the applications by the users.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["202","202","210","212","208","202","204","206","206","111","122"]},"In , the architecture of the electronic data-marketplace (e-marketplace) includes one or more buyers  accessing Web browser programs via one or more computers. The buyers  submit Request for Quotations (RFQ) via the web browser programs over a network  to an e-marketplace , for example, implemented by a web server. The web server stores the RFQ as well as other information such as, for example, product catalogs, seller and buyer information and others in a database system. A market maker  may operate the e-marketplace  via a computer. Once the RFQ is submitted, the e-marketplace  posts the RFQ as a new market on the web server.","One or more sellers  may access the e-marketplace over the network  via a web browser program residing on a seller computer. The web browser programs and both the buyer and the seller, respectively, as well as the web server may use HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP). The sellers may find and access the posted RFQ via the web browser program, and thereafter submit one or more sell bids having attribute values to the e-marketplace via the network. The sell bid and associated attribute values may be stored in the database as well as transmitted to the buyer's web browser over the network. Also, the web pages associated with both of the web browser programs and may provide a structured form for entering the appropriate information such as, for example, the RFQ and the submitted bids.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","304","306"]},"At , the seller is enabled to set up for the subscription metering\/billing service. In one aspect, an agreement between the seller and SDM operator may be established about pricing of the data. An example of pricing is a utility pricing, for example, like water and electricity, the price of data is determined by the use or the amount that is sold in the marketplace. Other agreement on pricing such as dynamic pricing by auction, or fixed price is also possible. Once the pricing model is set, the marketplace system monitors and collects the usage information associated with the data. This is referred to as metering. There may be additional factors in pricing model such as margin for the marketplace operator, and others. Considering the additional factors to the price, a billing may be determined.","At , the seller is enabled to start publishing the data offered. At , the seller is enabled to approve subscription requests. The seller's data becomes available in SDM. When a subscription request is received from a buyer, the data can be exported to the buyer with the seller's approval. At , if there are more data identified to be offered, the logic continues to step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["402","404","118","406","408"]},"At , the subscription request may be granted or rejected. The subscription request is nothing but data transfer request from the buying applications. Often the request is a series of (periodic) requests in a subscription mode depending on the application. With all the plumbing set between the seller & SDM and also between buyer & SDM. The seller receives requests form the buyer, grant or deny them, and SDM does the data transfer through the data export service for the granted requests.","At , the offered data is transmitted to the buyer or the buying application in response to the request being granted. A stream of data bits from the SDM database may be grouped as data files. In one embodiment, the underlying network protocol to transmit the data may include but is not limited to file transfer protocol (FTP), TCP\/IP, HTTP, and\/or others. At , if more data is identified, the logic continues to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"502"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ATTRIBUTE","TYPE","DETAILS"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ID","string","Section, Block, Lot SBL identifier,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"also known as the tax map number."]},{"entry":["Userid","string","Userid of the person managing this"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parcel"]},{"entry":["LegalAddrNum","number","Street number for the physical"]},{"entry":[{},{},"location of the parcel"]},{"entry":["LegalAddrStreet","string","Street name on which the parcel is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"physically located"]},{"entry":["LegalAddrCity","string","Name of city in which the parcel is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"physically located"]},{"entry":["LegalAddrState","string","Name of state in which the parcel"]},{"entry":[{},{},"is physically located"]},{"entry":["LegalAddrZip","number","Postal zip code for parcel's"]},{"entry":[{},{},"physical location"]},{"entry":["OwnerOneName","string","The name or corporation title of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"the primary owner of the parcel"]},{"entry":["OwnerTwoName","string","The name or corporation title of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parcel's co-owner"]},{"entry":["AdditionalOwners","string","Names of any additional owners"]},{"entry":["OwnershipType","string","Type of ownership e.g."]},{"entry":[{},{},"Association, Commercial,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Time Share"]},{"entry":["MailingAddrNum","number","Street number for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which correspondence regarding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parcel should be mailed"]},{"entry":["MailingAddrStreet","string","Street name for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which correspondence regarding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parcel should be mailed"]},{"entry":["MailingAddrCity","string","Name of city for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which correspondence regarding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parcel should be mailed"]},{"entry":["MailingAddrState","string","Name of state for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which correspondence regarding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parcel should be mailed"]},{"entry":["MailingAddrZip","number","Postal zip code for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which correspondence regarding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parcel should be mailed"]},{"entry":["ContactPhoneNumber","string","Phone number used to contact"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parties responsible for parcel"]},{"entry":["3rdPartyMailingAddrNum","number","Street number for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which third party notification"]},{"entry":[{},{},"correspondence should be mailed"]},{"entry":["3rdPartyMailingAddrStreet","string","Street name for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which third party notification"]},{"entry":[{},{},"correspondence should be mailed"]},{"entry":["3rdPartyMailingAddrCity","string","Name of city for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which third party notification"]},{"entry":[{},{},"correspondence should be mailed"]},{"entry":["3rdPartyMailingAddrState","string","Name of state for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which third party notification"]},{"entry":[{},{},"correspondence should be mailed"]},{"entry":["3rdPartyMailingAddrZip","number","Postal zip code for the address in"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which correspondence regarding"]},{"entry":[{},{},"parcel should be mailed"]},{"entry":["3rdPartyPhoneNumber","string","Phone number used for third party"]},{"entry":[{},{},"notifications"]},{"entry":["SchoolDistrict","string","Name of the school district"]},{"entry":[". . .",". . .",". . ."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"At , the identified one or more data attributes are mapped to a data model to create a first set of mapped data. For example, data attributes in the data model schema of an application are mapped to those in the common object model of SDM.","At , the first set of mapped data may be augmented with additional data imported into the shared data management system from other data locations to create an augmented set of mapped data. SDM provides a common and comprehensive data model which encompasses and consolidates individual data models used by different applications. The development of this consolidated SDM data model may be incrementally performed by adding data models of applications one by one. Once the first application's attributes are added to the SDM data model, the second application's attributes not covered by the first application may be added (augmented) to the SDM model.","At , one or more of second set of mapped data may be received from one or more shared data management system associated respectively with one or more shared data management networks.","At , a data set may be composed by combining and cleansing one or more of said first set of mapped data, said second set of mapped data, and said augmented set of mapped data. A data set refers to a data model of an application. The SDM data model is a comprehensive model combining the models of many applications. Often this composing process requires human intervention due to its semantic-heavy nature which cannot be easily automated by machine, for example, to remove duplicated (same meaning) attributes with different names from different applications or keeping different attributes with similar or same names from different applications. This process is referred to as composing. Cleansing includes removing duplicated (same meaning) attributes with different names from different applications or keeping different attributes with similar or same names from different applications. At , the composed data set may be offered in a digital marketplace with associated pricing characteristics.","In one aspect, SMD of the present disclosure may identify a quality measure based on voting or certification or both, the quality measure associated with characteristics of authenticity, reliability, and accuracy of database associated with said other data locations or the plurality of applications contributing to said data set. SDM in one embodiment of the present disclosure may also quantify value of the data set based on characteristics associated with availability of data forming the data set, difficulty in procuring the data and potential use of the augmented and composed data set. A pricing to the data set may be automatically assigned based on the quantified value and the quality measures.","As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system, method or computer program product. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.) or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a \u201ccircuit,\u201d \u201cmodule\u201d or \u201csystem.\u201d Furthermore, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium(s) having computer readable program code embodied thereon.","Any combination of one or more computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, or device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer readable storage medium would include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), an optical storage device, a magnetic storage device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document, a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain, or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein, for example, in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms, including, but not limited to, electro-magnetic, optical, or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate, propagate, or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium, including but not limited to wireless, wireline, optical fiber cable, RF, etc., or any suitable combination of the foregoing.","Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages, including an object oriented programming language such as Java, Smalltalk, C++ or the like and conventional procedural programming languages, such as the \u201cC\u201d programming language or similar programming languages, a scripting language such as Perl, VBS or similar languages, and\/or functional languages such as Lisp and ML and logic-oriented languages such as Prolog. The program code may execute entirely on the user's computer, partly on the user's computer, as a stand-alone software package, partly on the user's computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario, the remote computer may be connected to the user's computer through any type of network, including a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), or the connection may be made to an external computer (for example, through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider).","Aspects of the present invention are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems) and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer, other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture, functionality, and operation of possible implementations of systems, methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard, each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module, segment, or portion of code, which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function(s). It should also be noted that, in some alternative implementations, the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example, two blocks shown in succession may, in fact, be executed substantially concurrently, or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and\/or flowchart illustration, can be implemented by special purpose hardware-based systems that perform the specified functions or acts, or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.","The systems and methodologies of the present disclosure may be carried out or executed in a computer system that includes a processing unit, which houses one or more processors and\/or cores, memory and other systems components (not shown expressly in the drawing) that implement a computer processing system, or computer that may execute a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise media, for example a hard disk, a compact storage medium such as a compact disc, or other storage devices, which may be read by the processing unit by any techniques known or will be known to the skilled artisan for providing the computer program product to the processing system for execution.","The computer program product may comprise all the respective features enabling the implementation of the methodology described herein, and which\u2014when loaded in a computer system\u2014is able to carry out the methods. Computer program, software program, program, or software, in the present context means any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following: (a) conversion to another language, code or notation; and\/or (b) reproduction in a different material form.","The computer processing system that carries out the system and method of the present disclosure may also include a display device such as a monitor or display screen for presenting output displays and providing a display through which the user may input data and interact with the processing system, for instance, in cooperation with input devices such as the keyboard and mouse device or pointing device. The computer processing system may be also connected or coupled to one or more peripheral devices such as the printer, scanner, speaker, and any other devices, directly or via remote connections. The computer processing system may be connected or coupled to one or more other processing systems such as a server, other remote computer processing system, network storage devices, via any one or more of a local Ethernet, WAN connection, Internet, etc. or via any other networking methodologies that connect different computing systems and allow them to communicate with one another. The various functionalities and modules of the systems and methods of the present disclosure may be implemented or carried out distributedly on different processing systems or on any single platform, for instance, accessing data stored locally or distributedly on the network.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises\u201d and\/or \u201ccomprising,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","The corresponding structures, materials, acts, and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements, if any, in the claims below are intended to include any structure, material, or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.","Various aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a program, software, or computer instructions embodied in a computer or machine usable or readable medium, which causes the computer or machine to perform the steps of the method when executed on the computer, processor, and\/or machine. A program storage device readable by a machine, tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform various functionalities and methods described in the present disclosure is also provided.","The system and method of the present disclosure may be implemented and run on a general-purpose computer or special-purpose computer system. The computer system may be any type of known or will be known systems and may typically include a processor, memory device, a storage device, input\/output devices, internal buses, and\/or a communications interface for communicating with other computer systems in conjunction with communication hardware and software, etc.","The terms \u201ccomputer system\u201d and \u201ccomputer network\u201d as may be used in the present application may include a variety of combinations of fixed and\/or portable computer hardware, software, peripherals, and storage devices. The computer system may include a plurality of individual components that are networked or otherwise linked to perform collaboratively, or may include one or more stand-alone components. The hardware and software components of the computer system of the present application may include and may be included within fixed and portable devices such as desktop, laptop, and\/or server. A module may be a component of a device, software, program, or system that implements some \u201cfunctionality\u201d, which can be embodied as software, hardware, firmware, electronic circuitry, or etc.","The embodiments described above are illustrative examples and it should not be construed that the present invention is limited to these particular embodiments. Thus, various changes and modifications may be effected by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
