---
title: Systems and methods for scoring competitive strategy predictions of users on a play-by-play basis
abstract: The present disclosure describes, among other things, a method that includes receiving, by a first computing device, an identity of an event that has occurred in a sporting competition, the sporting competition comprising a plurality of events. The method includes determining, by a processor of the first computing device, a probability that the event would occur. The method includes determining, by the processor of the first computing device, a number of points based at least in part on the probability that the event would occur. The method includes receiving, by the first computing device, a prediction of an event from a second computing device in communication with the first computing device. The method includes increasing, by the processor of the first computing device, a score of a user of the second computing device by the number of points if the prediction of the event matches the identity of the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08449361&OS=08449361&RS=08449361
owner: Pre Play Sports LLC
number: 08449361
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111018
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/394,010, entitled \u201cSystems and Methods for Scoring Competitive Strategy Predictions of Users on a Play-by-Play Basis\u201d and filed Oct. 18, 2010, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.","Competitive strategy prediction competitions are generally directed to individual metrics gathered at predetermined times throughout the sporting season. For example, in fantasy leagues, individuals may create hypothetical teams and accrue points based on the selected athletes' performance throughout the season.","In one aspect, the present disclosure describes a method that may include receiving, by a first computing device, an identity of an event that has occurred in a sporting competition, the sporting competition comprising a plurality of events. The method may include determining, by a processor of the first computing device, a probability that the event would occur. The method may include determining, by the processor of the first computing device, a number of points based at least in part on the probability that the event would occur. The method may include receiving, by the first computing device, a prediction of an event from a second computing device in communication with the first computing device. The method may include increasing, by the processor of the first computing device, a score of a user of the second computing device by the number of points if the prediction of the event matches the identity of the event.","The sporting competition may include at least one sporting competition from a set including a football game, a baseball game, an ice hockey game, a boxing match, a tennis game, a golf game, a motor sporting competition, a martial arts competition, an automotive racing competition, a basketball game, a cricket game, a rugby game, or a horse race. The football game may include at least one of an American football game or a soccer game.","Determining the probability that the event would occur may include identifying past events similar to the event that has occurred and determining the probability based on the past events. Identifying past events similar to the event that has occurred may include identifying past events based at least in part on a team, a number of a down in a football game, an identity of a quarterback, a score differential between the teams, an amount of time remaining in a competition, and a season record for the team. Identifying past events similar to the event that has occurred may include identifying past events based at least in part on a score differential between teams, a period of time within a competition, a location of the competition, an identity of a pitcher, an identity of a batter, a number of outs in an inning, and a position of a runner on a base. Determining the number of points may include determining the number of points based at least in part on an inverse relationship with the probability that the event would occur. Determining the number of points may include subtracting the probability from 100.","The method may include decreasing the score of the user when the prediction of the event does not match the identity of the event. The method may include determining the prediction of an event is null when a predetermined period of time elapses.","In one aspect, the present disclosure describes an apparatus. The apparatus may include a processor and a memory. The memory may store instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to receive an identity of an event that has occurred in a sporting competition, the sporting competition comprising a plurality of events; determine a probability that the event would occur; determine a number of points based at least in part on the probability that the event would occur; receive a prediction of an event from a computing device; and increase a score of a user of the computing device by the number of points if the prediction of the event matches the identity of the event.","The memory may store instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to identify past events similar to the event that has occurred and determine the probability based on the past events. The memory may store instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to identify past events based at least in part on a team, a number of a down in a football game, an identity of a quarterback, a score differential between the teams, an amount of time remaining in a competition, and a season record for the team. The memory may store instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to identify past events based at least in part on a score differential between teams, a period of time within a competition, a location of the competition, an identity of a pitcher, an identity of a batter, a number of outs in an inning, and a position of a runner on a base.","The memory may store instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to determine the number of points based at least in part on an inverse relationship with the probability that the event would occur. The memory may store instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to subtract the probability from 100.","The memory may store instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to decrease the score of the user when the prediction of the event does not match the identity of the event. The memory may store instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to determine the prediction of an event is null when a predetermined period of time elapses.","The features and advantages of the present disclosure will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings, in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings, like reference numbers generally indicate identical, functionally similar, and\/or structurally similar elements.","In some implementations, the present disclosure may be directed to a system and method for scoring competitive strategy predictions of users on a play-by-play basis. A competitive strategy prediction service may manage user accounts. A user may select a sporting competition in progress and view events (also referred to herein as \u201cplays\u201d) that have already occurred. The user may select an event from a plurality of potential events presented by the competitive strategy service to make a prediction. The service may update the user's prediction score based on a comparison between the user's prediction and the actual event. The server may update the user's prediction score based on a comparison between the user's prediction, the actual event, and other users' predictions. The user may belong to one or more groups (e.g., leagues) in which the user competes against other users based on their prediction scores.","The present disclosure may include a method for scoring competitive strategy predictions of users on a play-by-play basis. The method may include requesting in real-time, by a processor on a first computing device, an identity of an event for a sporting competition comprising a plurality of events. The method may include receiving, by the first computing device, the identity of the event. The method may include transmitting, by the first computing device, a plurality of predictions for the event to a second computing device, the plurality of predictions including the identity of the event received. The method may include receiving, by the first computing device, a selection from the plurality of predictions from the second computing device. The method may include updating, by the first computing device, a score of a user of the second computing device based on a comparison of the selection and the identity of the event.","In some implementations, the systems and methods of the present disclosure may be applied to any sporting competition. Exemplary sporting competitions may include football games (e.g., American Football games such as the National Football League (NFL) games, or soccer games), baseball games, ice hockey games, boxing matches, tennis matches, golf games, motor sporting competitions, automotive racing competitions (e.g., competitions organized by the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR), martial arts competitions (e.g., competitions organized by Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC)), wrestling competitions, basketball games, cricket games, rugby games, Olympic games and events, and\/or horse races. In some implementations, sporting competitions may include professional sporting competitions. In other implementations, sporting competitions may include collegiate sporting competitions or amateur sporting competitions.","Referring now to , an implementation of a network environment  for scoring competitive strategy predictions of users on a play-by-play basis is shown and described. In brief overview, the network environment includes a computing device such as competition management server  that provides a competitive strategy prediction service and that may include a memory (not shown), a computing device such as an event feed server , and a plurality of computing devices such as user computing devices -. The network environment  may include remote devices , in communication with the event feed server . The competition management server , event feed server , user computing devices -, and\/or remote devices  may communicate over one or more networks .","The event feed server  may include information regarding events regarding sporting competitions (e.g., \u201cplays\u201d). In some implementations, an event feed server  may aggregate information about plays in on-going sporting competitions from various sources, such as remote devices , . In some implementations, attendees at the sporting competitions may have the remote devices . Each attendee may input information about the sporting competition into a remote device . For example, an attendee may input the starting line-up for each baseball team at a baseball competition. The attendee may input the starting pitcher. The attendee may input information about a player substitution in the competition.","In some implementations, an attendee may input information about plays of a competition into a remote device . For example, the attendee may input that a player on a football team fumbled, resulting in an incomplete pass. For example, the attendee may input that a boxer knocked out his opponent. The remote device  may send the information to the event feed server . The event feed server  may store the information and\/or index the information based on the identity of the sporting competition.","The event feed server  may send information about the sporting competitions to the competition management server . In some implementations, the competition management server  may send information received from the event feed server  to the user computing devices . In some implementations, the competition management server  may directly pass information from the event feed server  to the user computing devices . For example, the competition management server  may identify user computing devices  on which users are following a current sporting competition, such as a football competition between Team A and Team B. When the competition management server  receives information from the event feed server  about the football competition between Team A and Team B, the server  may directly pass the information to the user computing devices  with users who are following that competition. In some implementations, the server  may send the information via a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) or Extensible Markup Language (XML) application programming interface (API).","In some implementations, a user account for the competitive strategy prediction service may include a subscription for information related to a topic, such as American football teams in the National Football League. The user computing device  through which the user account accesses the competitive strategy prediction service may maintain a connection with the competition management server . In some implementations, the connection may include a data channel. The data channel may be centralized. In some implementations, the user computing device  may have substantially continuous communication with the data channel via a persisted open connection. The data channel may be associated with information related to the topic. When the competition management server  receives information related to the topic, the server  may send the information to the data channel (e.g., publish the information to the data channel). In some implementations, the user computing device  may access the data channel via a subscription, by way of example. The device  may access information published to the data channel.","The competition management server  may store information received from the event feed server . In some implementations, the competition management server  may process the information. In some implementations, processing the information may update statistics relating to athletes or sporting competitions. For example, when the event feed server  sends information on an event, such as a pitcher striking out a batter, the competition management server  may retrieve information about the batter's batting average against the pitcher and overall batting average. Based on the batter's strikeout, the competition management server  may determine updated batting averages for the batter. The server  may overwrite obsolete values for the batting averages in memory with the updated values. In some implementations, the server  may send the updated averages to the user computing devices .","The competition management server  may store accounts for users of the competitive strategy prediction service. In some implementations, an account may include identification information of the user, such as the user's name and account password. In some implementations, an account may include information about the user's friends with accounts for the competitive strategy prediction service, the user's competitive leagues, and\/or the user's prediction score(s). In some implementations, an account may include the identities of social networks for which the user has accounts. In some implementations, the account may include authentication and\/or credentials for the social network accounts.","In some implementations, a prediction score may be a number of points that user has accrued by making accurate predictions for sporting competitions (also referred to herein as \u201cprediction point score\u201d). In some implementations, a prediction score may be a percentage of the number of accurate predictions the user has made compared to the user's total number of predictions (also referred to herein as \u201cprediction percentage score\u201d). In many implementations, users may have both prediction point scores and\/or prediction accuracy percentage scores. A user may have one cumulative prediction score of each type (e.g., points, percentage). A user may have separate prediction scores of each type for each competitive league the user belongs to (e.g., prediction scores for Friends League A, Acquaintances League B). In some implementations, the user may have separate prediction scores of each type according to the type of sporting competitions the user makes predictions for (e.g., baseball prediction scores, football prediction scores).","In various implementations, an account may include the user's settings. The settings may include a user's preferences for sporting competitions. For example, a user may indicate a preference for football competitions over baseball competitions. Further, the user may indicate a preference for football competitions in the American Football Conference (AFC) over competitions in the National Football Conference (NFC). Additionally, the user may indicate a preference for competitions in the Eastern Division of the AFC over competitions in the other divisions. The user may set preferences for sporting competitions in any manner that would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.","In operation, the user may access the competitive strategy prediction service by using a user computing device . The user computing device  may include an application that connects the user to the competitive strategy prediction service on the competition management server . In various implementations, the user may obtain the application by downloading the application from the competitive strategy prediction service's website or a third-party provider of applications, such as the iTunes\u2122 stores. Activating the application may automatically connect the device  to the competition management server .","In some implementations, activating the application may direct the user to an introductory user interface (UI) , such as the exemplary screenshot depicted in . The user interface  may include a sign in control , a control  for creating an account with the competitive strategy prediction service (e.g., a control to join the service), and a control  for using the service as a guest.","If a user selects the sign in control , the user computing device  may display a sign in user interface  or , such as the exemplary screenshots depicted in . The user interfaces ,  may request credentials from the user. For example, the user interfaces ,  may include fields ,  for the user to input a username. For example, the user interfaces ,  may include fields ,  for the user to input a password. In some implementations, a user interface  may include a control  whose activations sends information (e.g., credentials) inputted into fields ,  to the competition management server . In some implementations, the user interface  may include a social network login control . If the user selects this control , the application may redirect the user to the login interface for the social network (not shown). The user may enter credentials for the social network into the login interface, and the credentials may be used to access the user's account for the competition strategy prediction service.","If a user selects the control  for creating an account with the competition strategy prediction service, the user computing device  may display an account creation user interface , such as the exemplary screenshots depicted in . The account creation user interface  may include fields , , , ,  that may accept the username, name, e-mail address, password, and favorite team of the user. The account creation user interface  may include other fields that accept other information for the account. In some implementations, a user interface  may include a control  whose activations sends the information inputted into fields , , , ,  to the competition management server . Upon receipt of the information, the server  may create an account with the information provided in the fields , , , , .","In some implementations, an account creation user interface  may permit a user to submit an image to the account, as shown in . In some implementations, the image may appear as an icon or avatar, by way of example, whenever the user accesses the application on the user computing device . The user may select an image stored on the user computing device . Upon selection, the image may appear in a window  on the device . The user may select a control  to include the image in the account (e.g., upload the image to the account). In some implementations, a user may select a control  to forgo including an image in his or her account.","In some implementations, after the user accesses the competitive strategy prediction service, the competition management server  may transmit a menu to the user computing device , such as the menu in the user interface  of . The menu in the user interface  may include icons that permit a user to view a list of competitions  (e.g., \u201cPlay\u201d), access results of competitions previously tracked  (e.g., \u201cMy Competitions\u201d), view results in competitive leagues , view overall standings for users of the service , view results for friends using the competitive strategy prediction service , change account settings , or any other option as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. Each of these functionalities may be explained in more detail in the present disclosure.","In some implementations, when the user selects the icon to view competitions , the user computing device  may display a menu that allows the user to view lists of current, upcoming, and recent competitions, as depicted in the exemplary screenshots ,  of . The icon to view competitions  may remain visible on the user interfaces , , . The user may select a tab  on the user interface  to view a list of upcoming sporting competitions . The user interface  may include the dates  of the upcoming competitions. The user interface  may include the start times  of the upcoming competitions.","By selecting a competition in a list of upcoming competitions, the user computing device  may display a user interface  with information about the competition. For example, the information may include the records of the athletic teams (e.g., 3 wins and 1 loss). In some implementations, the user interface  may include a control  that allows the user to predict which team will win the coin toss. If the user makes an accurate prediction, the competition management server  may add points to the user's prediction score.","In some implementations, the user interface  may include a control  that requests a reminder for the competition. If the user selects the reminder control , the service may send the user a reminder regarding the competition. For example, the service may send an e-mail reminder to the user an hour before the competition begins. For example, the service may send a text message reminder to the user an hour before the competition begins. For example, the service may cause the computing device to sound an alarm an hour before the competition begins. Although the reminders described herein occur an hour before the competition begins, any period of time may be used. In some implementations, the service may send multiple reminders to the user prior to the start of the competition.","Referring now to , a user may select a tab  on the user interface  to view a list of recent, completed sporting competitions . The user interface  may include the final results  of the recent, completed competitions. By selecting a competition from the list , the computing device  may display a user interface  or  with statistics  or  on the competition, such as the exemplary screenshots  or  of . Statistics on a competition, such as an American football game, may include the final score, the number of points scored in each quarter, the yardage for rushing, the yardage for passing, the number of third down conversions, the number of touchdowns, the number of successful field goal attempts, or any other statistic as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. In some implementations, the competition management server  receives the statistics from the remote devices . In some implementations, the competition management server  analyzes event information from the remote devices associated with a competition to determine the statistics for the competition.","Referring now to , exemplary user interfaces ,  displayed on an user computing device  when the user selects a tab  to view a list of current sporting competitions ,  (e.g., sporting competitions that have not concluded) is shown and described. In some implementations, the list of current sporting competitions may identify the teams in the competition, the current score in the competition, and an indication of the amount of time that has elapsed in the competition.","In some implementations, when the user selects the tab  to view a list of current competitions, the competition management server  may determine the sporting competitions in progress. The competition management server  may transmit a list of the competitions to the user computing device  for the user's selection. In some implementations, the competition management server  may sort the sporting competitions according to the user account's preferences. For example, based on the account preferences, the competition management server  may first present American football competitions in the Eastern Division of the AFC first, followed by American football competitions in other divisions. Then, the server  may present the competitions in the NFC or competitions for other sports, e.g. baseball.","In some implementations, the competition management server  may transmit multiple lists to the user computing device . These lists may separate the different types of sporting competitions, e.g. different lists for baseball competitions and American football competitions. In these implementations, the user may toggle between the lists to view the sporting competitions in progress for different sports.","In some implementations, the user may select a competition from a list of current sporting competitions , . The user computing device  may display a user interface  with the identities of the teams in the competition, the current score, and an indication of the amount of time remaining in the competition (e.g., the current quarter, inning), as depicted in . The interface  may include a control  that, when activated, would allow the user to begin using the competitive strategy service for the competition.","The user computing device  may transmits the request to user the service for the selected competition to the competition management server . The competition management server  may retrieve information about the selected competition. In some implementations, the server  may retrieve the information from internal memory. In some implementations, the server  may retrieve the information from an external memory.","The server  may retrieve, by way of example, information on the starting line-up for each team and the status of the competition (e.g., no score, 13 minutes and 6 seconds left in the first quarter, 3down, 4 yards to 1down, 27 yards to the end zone). The competition management server  may also provide the plays that have occurred, such as the exemplary plays listed in . The competition management server  may forward this information to the user computing device . The device  may display any of the information from the server  to the user. In particular, the device  may display the plays that have already occurred in a competition in exemplary screenshots such as the screenshots  of . In various implementations, if the user is following multiple competitions, the user computing device  may permit the user to toggle between screenshots with the plays for the selected competitions.","Based on the status of the competition, the competition management server  may identify potential plays. For example, in an American football competition, the server  may identify potential plays based on the number of the down, the number of yards to go, the amount of time left in the competition, the field positions of the team, the score of the competition, or any other factor. In another example, in a baseball competition, the server  may identify potential plays based on the number of the inning, the number of outs, and\/or the number and positions of players on base.","In some implementations, the competition management server  may store predetermined sets of potential plays according to the values of any combination of the above factors. For example, the server  may store a predetermined set of potential plays to be presented on every first down in an American football game. For example, the server  may store a predetermined set of potential plays to be presented whenever a football team is within 10 yards of the end zone. For example, the server  may store a predetermined set of potential plays to be presented in a baseball game whenever a runner is on second base in an inning with two outs. For example, the server  may store a predetermined set of potential plays to be presented in a baseball game whenever a runner is on first base in an inning with one out.","Referring now to , screenshots of user interfaces with exemplary potential plays for an American football game are shown and described. With reference to , a user interface  may display six potential plays when a team is on the 30-yard line with a first down. In this implementation, the user interface  may include an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will run the football for more than five (5) yards , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will run the football for less than five (5) yards , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will pass the football for more than ten (10) yards , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will pass the football for less than ten (10) yards , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will score a touchdown , and an icon corresponding to a prediction that the opposing team will intercept the football .","With reference to , a user interface  may display four potential plays when a team is on the -yard line with a second down and seven yards to go. In this implementation, the user interface  may include an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will run the football , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will pass the football , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will score a touchdown , and an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will score a field goal .","With reference to , a user interface  may display two potential plays when a team is on the 30-yard line with a third down and eight yards to go. In this implementation, the user interface  may include an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will achieve a first down  and an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will be held .","With reference to , a user interface  may display five potential plays when a team is on the 30-yard line with a fourth down and seven yards to go. In this implementation, the user interface  may include an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will punt , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will achieve a first down , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will be held , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will score a touchdown , and an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will score a field goal .","With reference to , a user interface  may display two potential plays when a team attempts a field goal. In this implementation, the user interface  may include an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will score the field goal  and an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will miss the field goal .","With reference to , a user interface  may display four potential plays after a team has scored a touchdown. In this implementation, the user interface  may include an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will score an extra point via a field goal , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will fail to obtain an extra point by missing the field goal , an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will make a successful two-point conversion , and an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will fail to make a two-point conversion .","With reference to , a user interface  may display a slider  a user may manipulate for a prediction about the position a football team will acquire on a kick return. The user may move the slider  to a position corresponding to the prediction (e.g., the 20-yard line).","With reference to , a user interface  may display a slider  a user may manipulate for a prediction about the position a football team will acquire on a punt return. The user may move the slider  to a position corresponding to the prediction (e.g., the 35-yard line).","With reference to , a user interface  may display two predictions when a coach challenges a decision in the competition. In this implementation, the user interface  may include an icon corresponding to a prediction that the decision will be overturned  and an icon corresponding to a prediction that the decision will be upheld .","Referring now to , screenshots of user interfaces used in the course of making a prediction for a play in a sporting competition are shown and described. With reference to , the competition management server  may transmit the potential plays for display on the user computing device . The user computing device  may display the potential plays according to, for example, icons , , , , , , ,  on the user interface  shown in . In some implementations, the user interface  may include a timer  that may allot a predetermined period of time for the user to select a play (e.g., 15 seconds).","With reference to , a user interface  in which a user has eliminated all but two potential plays is depicted. In this implementation, an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will complete a pass longer than 10 yards  and an icon corresponding to a prediction that the team will score a touchdown  remain active. The potential plays that the user has eliminated from consideration may be grayed out. In some implementations, the user may eliminate a potential play according to a predetermined control. For example, the user may double tap an icon corresponding to a potential play to gray out the icon. For example, the user may swipe upwards along the icon to eliminate the potential play.","In some implementations, the user may select an icon corresponding to a potential play. The user may change the selected play before the period of time elapses, after which the user computing device  transmits the user's selection to the competition management server . In some implementations, if the user has not selected a potential play at this time, the user computing device  registers the lack of selection with the competition management server .","With reference to , a user interface  may depict the predictions  the user and the user's competitors (e.g., friends, competitors in a league) have selected. In some implementations, the user computing device  may depict such an interface  after the period of time for making predictions has elapsed. In some implementations, the competition management server  may receive the predictions from users in a group (e.g., network of friends, competitive league). The server  may broadcast the predictions of the users to each member of the group.","In operation, the competition management server  may continually ping the event feed server  to determine if another play has occurred in the competition. In some implementations, the competition management server  begins communication with the event feed server  upon receipt of the user's selection. In other implementations, the competition management server  continually pings the event feed server  regardless of the detection of a user selection.","In some implementations, the event feed server  may send information about each event (e.g., play) as the information becomes available. When the event feed server sends the information, the competition management server  may not ping the event feed server  for information.","When the play becomes available, the competition management server  may determine the number of points to award users who correctly predicted the play. The server  may base the number of points on the probability of the play occur. The competition management server  may calculate the probability of the potential play according to, inter alia, the status of the competition. For example, regardless of the amount of time left in a football competition, if the offensive team finds itself 30 yards from its own goal posts, the competition management server  may calculate a high probability that the next play will be a punt. In another example, if there are 2 minutes left in the last quarter of a football competition, the offensive team is 4 yards from the end zone, the score is 24-17 in favor of the defensive team, and the play is the 2down, the competition management server  may calculate a higher probability that the next play will result in a touchdown. In further examples, if a baseball competition is in the bottom of the eighth inning and the team at-bat has no outs, a runner at first base, and a tied competition, the competition management server  may calculate a high probability for the next play to be a bunt. Likewise, if such a competition had one out and a runner at second base, the server  may calculate a high probability for the next play to be a sacrifice fly.","The server  may calculate the probabilities according to any probabilistic model applicable to events. For example, the server  may statistically analyze plays from a database of past football or baseball competitions (or any other type of sporting competition) to determine the probabilities of the play. In some implementations, the server  may identify past events according to the team, the number of the down, the identity of the quarterback, the score differential between the teams, the amount of time remaining in the competition, the season record for the team, or any other factor in any combination. From the identified events, the server may calculate a probability that the team would make the actual play.","For example, a user may be following an American football game between Team A and Team B in the playoffs. Team A may have scored eight fewer points than Team B. Team A's primary quarterback may be injured, and the coach may have included a secondary quarterback in the primary quarterback's place. Team A may be 25 yards from the end zone, with a second down and 7 yards until a first down. There may be four minutes and thirty-two seconds remaining in the fourth quarter. In some implementations, the competition management server  may identify all plays in the past 10 years when Team A trailed another team by less than 10 points in the final quarter of a game. Of these plays, the competition management server  may identify plays that occurred within 30 yards of the end zone, plays that occurred with a secondary quarterback, plays that occurred on a second down, or any combination thereof. The competition management server  may determine the probabilities regarding plays that may occur.","In another example, a user may be following a baseball game between Team A and Team B during the regular season. The game may be occurring in Team B's stadium. The game may be in the bottom of the 7inning There may be a runner at first base, and one out in the inning. Reliever R may be on the mound. Batter BB may be at bat. Team B may be trailing Team A by one run. In some implementations, the competition management server  may identify all plays in the past 25 years when Team B trailed another team by three or fewer runs in the seventh, 8, or 9inning. Of these plays, the competition management server  may identify plays that occurred at Team B's stadium, with Reliever R on the mound, Batter BB at bat, one out in the inning, a runner at first base, or any combination thereof The competition management server  may determine the probabilities regarding plays that may occur.","Further, from these probabilities, the competition management server  may assign point values to the plays. In some implementations, the lower the probability that a play will occur, the more points the server  may assign to the potential play. In some implementations, the number of points may be the difference between  and the probability the play would occur (e.g., a play with a 14% chance of occurring would be assigned a point value of 86). Relating the probability of a play with the point value would provide greater rewards to users for correctly predicting unlikely and\/or risky plays.","The competition management server  may compare the identity of the actual play with the play selected by the user. The competition management server  may update the prediction point score and\/or the prediction percentage score of the user based upon the comparison. If the user did not make a selection before the period of time elapsed or before the event feed server  transmitted the identity of the next play to the competition management server  before the user could make a selection, the user's prediction scores may remain the same. If the user incorrectly predicted the play, the competition management server  may deduct points from the user's prediction point score. The number of points deducted may be a constant, predetermined number, e.g. 10 points. In some implementations, the competition management server  may leave the user's prediction point score unchanged in response to an incorrect prediction. The server  may also adjust the user's prediction percentage score. If the user correctly predicted the play, the server  may add the number of points corresponding to the play to the user's prediction point score. Additionally, the server  may update the user's prediction percentage score.","In some implementations, the server  may update the user's prediction score based on a comparison between the user's prediction, the actual event, and other users' predictions. For example, the server  may increase the user's prediction score by an additional amount if the user is the only member of a group (e.g., a competitive league) to make an accurate prediction of the play. For example, the server  may increase the user's prediction score by an extra ten points. In some examples, the server  may divide the number of points awarded for making a correct prediction among the users who made the correct prediction. For example, suppose a play had an 80% chance of occurring. In some implementations, the server  would award 20 points for an accurate prediction of the play. If four users in a competitive league correctly predicted the play, the server  may divide the 20 points among the four users to award each user 5 points.","In various implementations, the user computing device  updates the user's prediction scores. In these implementations, after the competition management server  transmits the identity of the actual play received from the events feed server , the competition management server  recalculates the probabilities and corresponding point values of the potential plays. The server  transmits the point values to the user computing device . When the server  transmits the identity of an actual play, the user computing device  compares the actual play with the user's selected prediction and updates the user's prediction scores accordingly.","With reference to , a user interface  with a window  informing the user that his or her prediction was incorrect is shown. With reference to , a user interface  with a window  informing the user that his or her prediction was correct is shown. The window  may include the number of points to be added to the user's prediction score as a result of the correct prediction. In some implementations, the user's selected prediction for the play  may remain highlighted. The user interface  may include a control  that enables real-time communication with other users of the service. The user interface  may include a control  that permits access to statistics regarding various metrics of users of the service.","Referring now to , a user interface  for communication with other users may be displayed upon selection of the communication control , by way of example. The interface  may include a window  that displays comments. In some implementations, the window  may display comments by friends following the same game, according to an account setting. In some implementations, the window  may display comments by users in the same competitive league who are following the same game, according to an account setting. The user interface  may include a control  for the user to input a comment. Selection of the control  may retrieve the computing device's input interface , as depicted in . The input interface may include a keypad , a window for displaying inputted text , and a submission control . Upon selection of the submission control , the text inputted into the window  may be transmitted to the competition management server . The server  may broadcast the text to all user computing devices  associated with users following the same game in the same grouping as the user (e.g., friends, competitive league).","In some embodiments, then the sporting competition ends, the competition management server  may transmit a message indicating the competition's end to the user computing device . If the user computing device  is tracking the user's prediction score(s), the device  may transmit the user's updated scores to the competition management server , where the server  stores the scores in the user's account. In some implementations, after a competition ends, the user computing device  may retrieve updated prediction scores of other users in the user's competition leagues from the competition management server . The user computing device  may display updated standings for members of competitive leagues based on the updated scores, as in the exemplary screenshot of . In various implementations, the mobile computer device  may return the user to a main menu after a competition ends, and from that main menu, the user may select an icon to view updated standings for users in competitive leagues.","Referring now to , exemplary user interfaces  and  displayed in response to selection of the control  that permits access to statistics regarding various metrics of users of the service, by way of example, are shown and described. In response to the user command to access statistics, the user computing device  may retrieve statistics determined by the competition management server . A user may select a tab  for comparing statistics among the user's friends. The user interface  may display prediction statistics  for the user's friends, as identified in the user's account. The statistics may include each user's number of prediction points. The statistics may include each user's percentage of correct predictions. A user may select a tab  for comparing statistics among all the users of the service. The user interface  may display prediction statistics  for all the users.","Referring now to , an exemplary user interface  for comparing statistics between two users is shown and described. In some implementations, a user may compare statistics by selecting two users from the list of users, as depicted in the screenshots  and  of . In some implementations, the interface  may show an overall comparison of the users' statistics. In some implementations, the interface  may show a comparison of the users' statistics for a particular game. The statistics may be any metric, such as the percentage of correct predictions for rushing, passing, scoring touchdowns, or any other play. The statistics may be the number of points earned by each user for his or her correct predictions.","In some implementations, the competitive strategy prediction service may permit users to invite other users to join the service. The service may enable users to communicate with users through social networks. In response to user selection of the contacts icon , the user computing device  may display a user interface , as shown in . The user interface  may include a control  for accessing the user's existing contacts on social networks. The user interface  may include a control  for viewing pending invitations sent to contacts for joining the service. The user interface may include a display of the user's existing contacts within the service .","When a user selects the control  for accessing the user's existing contacts on social networks, the user computing device  may display the exemplary user interface  depicted in . The user interface  may include a list  of sources of contacts. In some implementations, sources may include contacts in a social network. In some implementations, sources may include contacts stored in an address book on the computing device .","The user may select the control When a user selects the control  for accessing the user's existing contacts on social networks, the user computing device  may display the exemplary user interface  depicted in . The user interface  may include a list of sources of contacts. In some implementations, sources ,  may include contacts in a social network. In some implementations, sources  may include contacts stored in an address book on the computing device .","The user may access contacts in a social network by selecting the connection control , . The user computing device  may display a user interface  that lists users on the social network, as shown in . In some implementations, the user computing device  may show users on the social network who are already using the competitive strategy prediction service. The user may add a contact to the user's group of friends on the service by selecting an \u201cadd\u201d control  adjacent to the contact's name. In some implementations, the user may search for the name of a contact by inputting text into a search field .","Referring now to , a user interface  for inviting contacts to join the competitive strategy prediction service is shown and described. The user may have accessed contacts in an address book stored on the user computing device , by way of example. In some implementations, the user interface  may depict contacts  who are already users of the competitive strategy prediction service. The user may add a contact to his or her group of friends on the service by selecting the \u201cadd\u201d control  adjacent to the contact's name. In some implementations, the user interface  may depict contacts  who are not users of the service. The user may invite a contact to join the service by selecting the \u201cinvite\u201d control  adjacent to the contact's name. In response, the service may send an invitation to the contact via e-mail, by way of example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIGS. 41A and 41B","FIG. 1","FIGS. 41A and 41B","FIG. 41A"],"b":["105","110","115","120","4101","4122","4100","4124","4126","4127","4100","4130","4130","4130","4140","4101"],"i":["a","n","a","b "]},"The central processing unit  is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many implementations, the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit, such as: those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View, Calif.; those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg, Ill.; those manufactured by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara, Calif.; the RS\/6000 processor, those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains, N.Y.; or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale, Calif. The computing device  may be based on any of these processors, or any other processor capable of operating as described herein.","Main memory unit  may be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor , such as Static random access memory (SRAM), Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM (BSRAM), Dynamic random access memory (DRAM), Fast Page Mode DRAM (FPM DRAM), Enhanced DRAM (EDRAM), Extended Data Output RAM (EDO RAM), Extended Data Output DRAM (EDO DRAM), Burst Extended Data Output DRAM (BEDO DRAM), Enhanced DRAM (EDRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), JEDEC SRAM, PC100 SDRAM, Double Data Rate SDRAM (DDR SDRAM), Enhanced SDRAM (ESDRAM), SyncLink DRAM (SLDRAM), Direct Rambus DRAM (DRDRAM), or Ferroelectric RAM (FRAM). The main memory  may be based on any of the above described memory chips, or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the implementation shown in , the processor  communicates with main memory  via a system bus  (described in more detail below).  depicts an implementation of a computing device  in which the processor communicates directly with main memory  via a memory port . For example, in  the main memory  may be DRDRAM.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":["FIG. 41B","FIG. 41A","FIG. 41B","FIG. 41B"],"b":["4101","4140","4101","4140","4150","4140","4122","4101","4130","4150","4101","4130","4124","4101","4124","4100","4101","4130","4101","4130","4130"]},"The computing device  may support any suitable installation device , such as a floppy disk drive for receiving floppy disks such as 3.5-inch, 5.25-inch disks or ZIP disks, a CD-ROM drive, a CD-R\/RW drive, a DVD-ROM drive, tape drives of various formats, USB device, hard-drive or any other device suitable for installing software and programs such as any client agent , or portion thereof The computing device  may further comprise a storage device , such as one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks, for storing an operating system and other related software, and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the client agent . Optionally, any of the installation devices  could also be used as the storage device . Additionally, the operating system and the software may be run from a bootable medium, for example, a bootable CD, such as KNOPPIX\u00ae, a bootable CD for GNU\/Linux that is available as a GNU\/Linux distribution from knoppix.net.","Furthermore, the computing device  may include a network interface  to interface to a Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN) or the Internet through a variety of connections including, but not limited to, standard telephone lines, LAN or WAN links (e.g., 802.11, T1, T3, 56 kb, X.25), broadband connections (e.g., ISDN, Frame Relay, ATM), wireless connections, or some combination of any or all of the above. The network interface  may comprise a built-in network adapter, network interface card, PCMCIA network card, card bus network adapter, wireless network adapter, USB network adapter, modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device  to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.","A wide variety of I\/O devices -may be present in the computing device . Input devices include keyboards, mice, trackpads, trackballs, touchscreens, microphones, and drawing tablets. Output devices include video displays, speakers, inkjet printers, laser printers, and dye-sublimation printers. The I\/O devices  may be controlled by an I\/O controller  as shown in . The I\/O controller may control one or more I\/O devices such as a keyboard  and a pointing device , e.g., a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore, an I\/O device may also provide storage  and\/or an installation medium  for the computing device . In still other implementations, the computing device  may provide USB connections to receive handheld USB storage devices such as the USB Flash Drive line of devices manufactured by Twintech Industry, Inc. of Los Alamitos, Calif.","In some implementations, the computing device  may comprise or be connected to multiple display devices -, which each may be of the same or different type and\/or form. As such, any of the I\/O devices -and\/or the I\/O controller  may comprise any type and\/or form of suitable hardware, software, or combination of hardware and software to support, enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices -by the computing device . For example, the computing device  may include any type and\/or form of video adapter, video card, driver, and\/or library to interface, communicate, connect or otherwise use the display devices -. In one implementation, a video adapter may comprise multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices -. In other implementations, the computing device  may include multiple video adapters, with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices -. In some implementations, any portion of the operating system of the computing device  may be configured for using multiple displays -. In other implementations, one or more of the display devices -may be provided by one or more other computing devices, such as computing devices and connected to the computing device , for example, via a network. These implementations may include any type of software designed and constructed to use another computer's display device as a second display device for the computing device . One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and implementations that a computing device  may be configured to have multiple display devices -","In further implementations, an I\/O device  may be a bridge  between the system bus  and an external communication bus, such as a USB bus, an Apple Desktop Bus, an RS-232 serial connection, a SCSI bus, a FireWire bus, a FireWire 800 bus, an Ethernet bus, an AppleTalk bus, a Gigabit Ethernet bus, an Asynchronous Transfer Mode bus, a HIPPI bus, a Super HIPPI bus, a SerialPlus bus, a SCI\/LAMP bus, a FibreChannel bus, or a Serial Attached small computer system interface bus.","A computing device  of the sort depicted in  typically operate under the control of operating systems, which control scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device  may be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft\u00ae Windows operating systems, the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems, any version of the Mac OS\u00ae for Macintosh computers, any embedded operating system, any real-time operating system, any open source operating system, any proprietary operating system, any operating systems for mobile computing devices, or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include: WINDOWS 3.x, WINDOWS 95, WINDOWS 98, WINDOWS 2000, WINDOWS NT 3.51, WINDOWS NT 4.0, WINDOWS CE, and WINDOWS XP, all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond, Wash.; MacOS, manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino, Calif.; OS\/2, manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk, N.Y.; and Linux, a freely-available operating system distributed by Caldera Corp. of Salt Lake City, Utah, or any type and\/or form of a Unix operating system, among others.","In other implementations, the computing device  may have different processors, operating systems, and input devices consistent with the device. Moreover, the computing device  may be any workstation, desktop computer, server, any other computer, or other form of computing or telecommunications device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein.","The user computing device  may be embodied in any one of the following computing devices: a handheld computer; tablet computer; mobile telephone; portable telecommunication device; media playing device; gaming system; netbook; a kiosk; device of the iPad or iPod families of devices manufactured by Apple Computer; or any other type and\/or form of computing, telecommunications, or media device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the methods and systems described herein, including non-mobile devices. In some implementations, the user computing device  may be a mobile device such as a Java-enabled cellular telephone or personal digital assistant (PDA), e.g. the i55sr, i58sr, i85s, i90c, i95cl, or the im1100 manufactured by Motorola Corporation; the 6035 or 7135, manufactured by Kyocera; or the i300 or i330, manufactured by Samsung Electronic Co., Ltd. In various implementations, the user computing device  may be any device that uses the Android operating system of Google Inc., such as the HTC Dream manufactured by HTC Corporation.","In some implementations, any of actions executed by the competition management server , event feed server , or remote devices  may be executed on one or more computing devices. For example, actions executed by the competition management server  may be executed on one or more computing devices. Some actions executed by the competition management server  and some actions executed by the event feed server  may be executed on the same computing device. The actions executed by the competition management server , event feed server , and\/or remote devices  may be allocated among a plurality of computing devices. In some implementations, the computing devices may be devices in a cloud computing environment. In some implementations, the computing devices may communicate over at least one network.","Referring now to , an exemplary user interface  displayed on an user computing device  when the user selects a tab  to view a list of current ice hockey competitions  is shown and described. In some implementations, the list of current ice hockey competitions may identify the teams in the competition, the current score in the competition, and an indication of the amount of time that has elapsed in the competition (e.g., the current period of the competition).","In some implementations, when the user selects the tab  to view a list of current competitions, the competition management server  may determine the ice hockey competitions in progress. The competition management server  may transmit a list of the competitions to the user computing device  for the user's selection. In some implementations, the competition management server  may sort the ice hockey competitions according to the user account's preferences.","In some implementations, the user may select a competition from a list of current ice hockey competitions . The user computing device  may display a user interface  with the identities of the teams in the competition, the current score, and an indication of the amount of time remaining in the competition (e.g., the current period), as depicted in . The interface  may include a control  that, when activated, would allow the user to begin using the competitive strategy service for the competition.","Referring now to , an exemplary user interface  used in the course of making a prediction for an outcome of a sporting competition is shown and described. The user interface  may permit a user to predict a final score of an ice hockey competition. In some implementations, the interface  may include dials ,  for the user to scroll through potential final scores for the teams. In some implementations, the interface  may include a control  whose activation by the user submits the predicted scores to the competition management server .","Referring now to , an exemplary user interface  used in the course of making a prediction for plays in a competition is shown and described. The user interface  may include an icon  corresponding to a prediction that Team A will successfully score in a first shootout and an icon  corresponding to a prediction that Team A will not successfully score in a first shootout. The user interface  may include an icon  corresponding to a prediction that Team A will successfully score in a second shootout and an icon  corresponding to a prediction that Team A will not successfully score in a second shootout.","The user interface  may include an icon  corresponding to a prediction that Team B will not successfully score in a first shootout and an icon  corresponding to a prediction that Team B will successfully score in a first shootout. The user interface  may include an icon  corresponding to a prediction that Team B will not successfully score in a second shootout and an icon  corresponding to a prediction that Team B will successfully score in a second shootout.","Referring now to , an exemplary user interface  used in the course of making a prediction for plays in a competition. The user interface  may include an icon  corresponding to a prediction that an ice hockey team with at least one player advantage will score a goal during a power play, an icon  corresponding to a prediction that neither ice hockey team will score a goal during a power play, and an icon  corresponding to a prediction that the ice hockey team with at least one player disadvantage will score a goal during a power play.","With reference to , a user interface  may display a slider  a user may manipulate for a prediction about the time when an ice hockey team will score a goal during a power play. The user may move the slider  to a position corresponding to the prediction (e.g., 1 minute, 15 seconds).","With reference to , an exemplary user interface  used in the course of making a prediction for an outcome in a competition is shown and described. The user interface  may include an icon  corresponding to a prediction that a full boxing round will elapse without a boxer being knocked out. The user interface  may include an icon  corresponding to a prediction that a boxer will be knocked out during the round.","With reference to , an exemplary user interface  used in the course of making a prediction for an outcome in a competition is shown and described. The user interface  may include icons ,  enabling a user to select which boxer the user predicts will successfully throw the first punch in a boxing match.","Referring now to , an exemplary user interface  for displaying statistics about a boxing match is shown and described. The user interface may display controls enabling a user to select the type of statistics for viewing. For example, the interface  may include a control  for viewing the number of punches thrown. The interface  may include a control  for viewing the percentage of punches thrown successfully. The interface  may include a control  for viewing the statistics for a round.","Referring now to , an exemplary user interface  for comparing statistics between two users who made predictions for a boxing match is shown and described. In some implementations, a user may compare statistics by selecting two users from the list of users. In some implementations, the interface  may show an overall comparison of the users' statistics. In some implementations, the interface  may show a comparison of the users' statistics for a particular boxing match. The statistics may be any metric, such as the percentage of correct predictions for landed punches, thrown punches, first punches of the rounds, final punches of the round, and winner predictions. The statistics may be the number of points earned by each user for his or her correct predictions.","In view of the structure, functions and apparatus of the systems and methods described here, in some implementations, a dynamic, efficient and intelligent system for scoring competitive strategy predictions of users on a play-by-play basis is provided. Having described certain implementations of methods and systems for scoring competitive strategy predictions, it will now become apparent to one of skill in the art that other implementations incorporating the concepts of the disclosure may be used. Therefore, the disclosure should not be limited to certain implementations, but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":["The foregoing and other objects, aspects, features, and advantages of the present disclosure will become more apparent and better understood by referring to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 3 and 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 8 and 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 10-12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 13 and 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 17-25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 26-30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 31-32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 33-36"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 37-40"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 41A and 41B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 42"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 43"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 45-47"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 48-49"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 50"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 51"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
