---
title: Compositions comprising zirconium hydroxide and graphite oxide and methods for use
abstract: Compositions and methods useful for removing toxic industrial compounds from air are disclosed, wherein said composition comprises a mixture of hydrous metal oxide and graphite oxide. In a most preferred embodiment the composition comprises a mixture of zirconium hydroxide and graphene oxide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08658555&OS=08658555&RS=08658555
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08658555
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111104
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","EXAMPLES","Example 1","Preparation of Zirconium Hydroxide and Graphite Oxide Composition","Example 2","Experimental Data Associated with Adsorption of SOUsing Graphite Oxide\/Zr(OH)Composition","Example 3","Adsorption of HS Using Graphite Oxide\/Zr(OH)Composition","Experimental"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/422,345, filed Dec. 13, 2010.","The invention described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.","The present invention relates to materials useful for protecting against toxic industrial compounds, and more particularly to compositions and methods for removing toxic industrial compounds from air.","Toxic industrial compounds (TICs) encompass a variety of chemicals used or created by industry that can pose significant danger on human health if released in the air. Such toxic industrial compounds include ammonia (NH), nitrogen oxide (NO), hydrogen sulfide (HS), sulfur dioxide (SO), arsine (AsH), and the like. Hydrogen sulfide is one of the major environmental pollutants having its sources in natural and anthropogenic activity. Therefore, removal of TICs such as hydrogen sulfide and sulfur dioxide is important from both environmental (e.g., acid raid) and safe respiratory standpoints.","One method for removing TICs such as hydrogen sulfide and sulfur dioxide is reactive adsorption. Reactive adsorption is a form of adsorption which is enhanced through promotion of chemical reactions useful for changing an adsorbed molecule to a different one. These reactions may involve oxidation, reacting adsorbed molecules with one another or with the adsorbent surface, or with molecules present on the absorbent surface.","Various materials have been extensively investigated for use as reactive adsorbents or adsorbent supports. Examples include activated carbons, fly ash, activated carbon fibers surface, sewage sludge based adsorbents, zinc oxide, exfoliated graphite, and porous basic inorganic materials. Important factors for promoting enhanced adsorption capacity of materials are high distribution of catalytic centers promoting oxidation and ability to retain water. Other important factors include efficiency at ambient temperatures and ability to withstand the presence of moisture. Current adsorption materials are inadequate due to limited adsorption capacity especially at ambient conditions and relatively weak adsorption forces.","Accordingly, there is a need in the art to develop materials exhibiting enhanced adsorption capacity for removing significant quantities of TICs from air and strong adsorption forces at levels sufficient for preventing desorption from the surface of such materials. There is a further need for such materials capable of operating at ambient conditions.","The present invention relates generally to compositions and methods for removing toxic industrial compounds from air. Broadly, the present composition includes a mixture of hydrous metal oxide and graphite oxide. Preferably, the hydrous metal oxide is hydrous zirconia. The present composition exhibits enhanced concentrations of highly dispersed active surface function groups (e.g., hydroxyl groups). In one embodiment of the present invention, the present composition is synthesized from zirconium chloride and graphite oxide. The present composition exhibits unique synergistic properties based on surface chemistry, porosity and enhanced adsorption capacity of toxic industrial compounds, particularly acidic gases such as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide. The composition of the present invention can be readily adapted for use in various applications requiring decontamination of air streams containing TICs such as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide, and especially for use in respiratory filtration applications.","In the present invention, the hydrous metal oxide of the present compositions is selected from a compound containing at least one metal element capable of dissociating adsorbed molecular water and generating hydroxyl groups, which chemically bond to the surface thereof. The hydrous metal oxide preferably possesses an amorphous structure, consisting of less than 10 nm crystals, which provides for formation of elevated concentrations of surface bound hydroxyl groups. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the composition is prepared as a porous mixture composed of hydrous zirconia and graphite oxide. In a more preferred embodiment of the present invention, the graphite oxide is graphene oxide.","In one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a composition, which includes a mixture of hydrous metal oxide and graphite oxide.","In another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of making a composition, wherein the method includes the step of forming a mixture of hydrous metal oxide and graphite oxide.","In another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of removing toxic industrial compounds from air, wherein the method includes the step of passing the air in contact with a composition comprising a mixture of hydrous metal oxide and graphite oxide.","The present invention is directed to compositions and methods for removing toxic industrial compounds (TICs) from air. The present composition has been observed to exhibit reactive adsorbent activity useful for removing toxic industrial compounds, preferably acid gases such as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide, from air. The present invention is formulated particularly for adsorbing TICs in significant quantities from air, and exhibiting strong adsorption forces at levels sufficient to prevent desorption from the surface.","The present invention exhibits enhanced concentrations of highly dispersed active surface function groups (e.g., hydroxyl groups). The present invention further exhibits unique synergistic properties based on surface chemistry, porosity and enhanced adsorption capacity of toxic industrial compounds. The composition of the present invention can be readily adapted for use in various applications requiring decontamination of air streams containing TICs such as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide, and especially for use in respiratory filtration applications. There is also provided a method for making the present invention.","Broadly, the present composition includes a mixture of hydrous metal oxide and graphite oxide. The hydrous metal oxide of the present composition is selected from a compound containing at least one metal element capable of dissociating adsorbed molecular water and generating hydroxyl groups, which chemically bond to the surface thereof. The hydrous metal oxide preferably possesses an amorphous structure, consisting of less than 10 nm crystals, which provides for formation of elevated concentrations of surface bound hydroxyl groups. Preferably, the hydrous metal oxide is hydrous zirconia.","The addition of graphite oxide has been observed to enhance the TIC removal activity of the composition under both dry and moist conditions as compared to hydrous metal oxide alone. It is believed that the presence of the graphite oxide component reduces the tendency of the surface to adsorb water, which would otherwise diminish the capacity of the hydrous metal oxide to remove TICs. Applicants theorize that the enhanced activity is linked to the bridging of the \u2014OH groups of the graphite oxide with the hydrous metal oxide (e.g., Zr(OH)) lattice and reactions of the metal (e.g., zirconium) with acidic groups present on the edges of the graphite oxide component. The TICs are retained on the surface via physical adsorption in small pores and via reactions with terminal \u2014OH groups of the hydrous metal oxide (e.g., hydrous zirconia). The latter reaction results in the formation of less toxic by-products (e.g., sulfides and sulfates).","In one embodiment of the present invention, the composition includes a mixture composed of hydrous zirconia and graphite oxide. In a further embodiment of the present invention, the present composition is synthesized from zirconium chloride and graphite oxide. In a more preferred embodiment of the present invention, the graphite oxide is graphene oxide.","Depending on the type of process in which the present composition is used, the porous mixture can be in any form including, for example, pellets, monoliths, powders, beds, and the like, which are suitable for promoting maximum contact with air flowing or passing therethrough. Preferably, the porous mixture of the present invention exhibits high micro- and\/or meso-pore volume to achieve increased overall surface area.","The graphite oxide is present in an amount sufficient to substantially enhance removal of the TICs such as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide under dry and moist conditions. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the amount of the graphite oxide present is at least 0.01% by weight based on the total weight of the composition, and preferably in the range of from about 0.1% by weight to 90% by weight based on the total weight of the composition, and more preferably from about 1% by weight to 80% by weight based on the total weight of the composition. In a further preferred embodiment of the present invention, the amount of graphite oxide is from about 5% by weight to 50% by weight based on the total weight of the composition.","The graphite oxide is incorporated or loaded into the composition with hydrous metal oxide to yield a porous mixture. The resulting porous mixture may be mesoporous (i.e., pore sizes of less than 50 nm) or microporous (i.e., pore sizes of less than 2 nm). The crystal size of the hydrous metal oxide is less than 100 nm, preferably less than 10 nm, and more preferably less than 2 nm.","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the porous mixture of the present composition has a surface area above about 100 mg, preferably from about 100 mgto 1000 mg, and most preferably from about 200 mgto 600 mg.","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the total pore volume of the porous mixture is generally at least 0.01 cmg, preferably in the range of from about 0.01 cmgto 0.8 cmgand more preferably from about 0.1 cmgto 0.5 cmg.","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the micropore volume of the porous mixture is generally at least 0.01 cmg, preferably in the range of from about 0.03 cmgto 0.1 cmg, and more preferably from about 0.03 cmgto 0.06 cmg.","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the mesopore volume of the porous mixture is generally at least 0.01 cmg, preferably in the range of from about 0.05 cmgto 0.5 cmg, and more preferably from about 0.06 cmgto 0.1 cmg.","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the breakthrough capacity or adsorption capacity of the porous mixture is generally at least 10 mg\/g, preferably in the range of from about 30 mg\/g to 300 mg\/g, and more preferably from about 50 mg\/g to 300 mg\/g.","In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the porous mixture has a pH value of from about 3 to 9, and more preferably from about 6 to 7.","In the present invention, the hydrous metal oxide of the porous mixture is selected from a compound containing at least one metal element in a hydroxylated state capable of forming and supporting hydroxyl groups dispersed on the surface thereof. The hydrous metal oxide is preferably amorphous in structure.","The metal element of the hydrous metal oxide is selected from transition metals such as, for example, titanium, post-transition metals such as, for example, aluminum, silicon, zirconium, cerium, and hafnium, and combinations thereof. Preferably, the metal element is zirconium. A preferred example of suitable hydrous metal oxides is hydrous zirconia, which has been observed to provide enhanced porosity and surface area useful for forming and supporting higher concentration of hydroxyl surface groups.","The hydrous metal oxide of the present invention has a hydroxyl concentration in the range of from about 0.1 to 0.6 surface fraction based on the total available surface of the present composition, and more preferably from about 0.3 to 0.5 surface fraction based on the total available surface of the present composition.","For purposes of the present invention, it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the terms \u201csufficient\u201d and \u201ceffective\u201d as used in conjunction with the terms \u201camount\u201d and \u201cconditions\u201d represents a quantitative value that provides a satisfactory and desired result, e.g., detoxifying or neutralizing toxic industrial chemicals such as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide which may be present in an air stream. The amounts, conditions and volume required to achieve the desired result will, of course, vary somewhat based upon the amount of toxic industrial chemical present, temperature, the flow rate, and volume of the air stream.","In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method of making a composition, wherein the method includes the step of forming a mixture of hydrous metal oxide and graphite oxide. It will be understood that the method for making the present composition is not limited to the examples provided herein, and is intended to encompass any methods or processes suitable for producing a mixture of hydrous metal oxide such as hydrous zirconia, and graphite oxide.","By way of example, the present composition may be prepared by synthesizing graphite oxide via the Hummers method. Graphite oxide was produced by treating graphite with essentially a water-free mixture of concentrated sulfuric acid, sodium nitrate and potassium permanganate at temperatures of about less than 45\u00b0 C. for about less than two hours. Specific details of the Hummers method can be found in William S. Hummers, Jr., and Richard E. Offeman, (1958), , J. American Chemical Society, volume 80 issue 6, page 1339, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in the entirety. Alternatively, graphite oxide is also commercially available from Sigma-Aldrich of St. Louis, Mo.","In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, graphite oxide was dispersed in a solution of a zirconium salt (e.g., zirconium chloride). Thereafter, a basic solution (e.g., sodium hydroxide) was added slowly in a stoichiometric amount to yield a precipitate comprising zirconium hydroxide and graphite oxide.","In a further exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the graphite oxide prepared via the Hummers method in the form of a powder was dispersed in 1.0 L of sodium hydroxide (0.05M) to yield a suspension of graphite oxide. The resulting suspension was thereafter stirred for about three hours. A solution of zirconium (IV) chloride (0.05M) in an amount of about 250 mL was added by titration at a rate of about 0.6 mL\/min to the suspension of graphite oxide using a Titronic Universal manufactured by Schott Instruments GmbH of Mainz, Germany. The resulting suspension was extensively washed with distilled water until neutral pH was reached and no chloride ions were detected. The suspension was centrifuged and dried at about 50\u00b0 C. for about 48 hours to yield the final product.","In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method of removing toxic industrial compounds such as sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide from air, wherein the method includes the step of passing the air in contact with a composition comprising a mixture of hydrous metal oxide and graphite oxide. The composition may be provided with a relatively high surface area. A TIC containing air stream is passed at a suitable flow rate in contact with the mixture, while maintaining the temperature of the mixture within an optimal range.","The compositions of the present invention can be implemented or employed in various suitable arrangements of process conditions, depending upon the nature of the air to be purified. It will be understood that the present invention is not limited to the detoxification, neutralization or decontamination of sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide, and may encompass the detoxification, neutralization or decontamination of any toxic industrial compounds in the air through contact with the graphite oxide and hydrous metal oxide combination to produce a reaction product that is less toxic and safer than the initial toxic industrial compounds. Mere physical contact of the toxic industrial compound with the present composition is sufficient to initiate the decontamination process.","The composition of the present invention is useful in greatly reducing or eliminating toxic industrial compounds from air passing in contact therewith and as a result generating less toxic products. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the present composition is used to reactively adsorb sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide to yield less harmful compounds. The conditions required for carrying out the claimed methods can generally be described as ambient environmental conditions. For example, the methods can be used preferably at temperatures ranging from about 25\u00b0 C. to about 150\u00b0 C.","The following examples serve to provide further appreciation of the invention but are not meant in any way to restrict the effective scope of the invention.","Graphite oxide (GO) was synthesized by oxidation of graphite using the Hummers method, whereby graphite is treated with essentially a water-free mixture of concentrated sulfuric acid, sodium nitrate and potassium permanganate at temperatures of about less than 45\u00b0 C. for about less than two hours. The resulting graphite oxide powder was dispersed in amounts of 5 wt %, 20 wt %, and 50 wt % based on the final mass of the material, respectively, in corresponding 1.0 L of 0.05 M sodium hydroxide. The resulting suspensions were subsequently each stirred for about 3 hours.","Thereafter, about 250 mL of 0.05 M zirconium (IV) chloride was added each of the dispersed graphite oxide suspensions at a rate of about 0.6 mL\/min using a Titronic Universal (SCHOTT). The resulting product was extensively washed with distilled water until neutral pH is achieved and no traces of chloride ion were observed in the suspension. Finally, the suspension was centrifuged and gel formed was dried at about 50\u00b0 C. for about 48 hours. Samples of zirconium hydroxide were prepared in the same manner, however without graphite oxide dispersed in the sodium hydroxide solution.","As used herein, the graphite oxide obtained using Hummers methods is referred to hereinafter as \u201cGO\u201d and zirconium hydroxide (hydrous zirconia) as \u201cZrA.\u201d The compositions produced with 5 wt %, 20 wt % and 50 wt % of GO are referred to hereinafter as ZrG-1, ZrG-2 and ZrG-3, respectively.","Compositions comprising zirconium hydroxide and graphite oxide were analyzed for adsorption activity on sulfur dioxide at ambient conditions. The results indicated enhanced adsorption of sulfur dioxide in the present composition due to formation of new basic sites and porosity derived from interaction between zirconium hydroxide and oxygen groups attached to graphene layers. The combination of physical adsorption and reactive adsorption of sulfur dioxide promotes the retention process and the resulting formation of sulfites, while the graphene component promotes catalytic oxidation of sulfur dioxide to sulfates.","Materials:","The materials prepared in Example 1 were studied as adsorbents for sulfur dioxide in the dynamic tests described below under dry (D) and wet conditions (M). After the concentration of SOin the effluent gas reached 20 ppm the samples were considered as exhausted for sulfur dioxide adsorption. Such samples are identified with letter \u201cE\u201d added to their names.","Methods:","Sulfur Dioxide Breakthrough","Dynamic tests for evaluating SObreakthrough capacity were carried out at room temperature to evaluate the capacity of the adsorbents for SOremoval under two sets of conditions, wet and dry. For the former, adsorbent samples were packed into a glass column (internal diameter 9 mm). A bed volume used was 1.2 cm(with the mass of adsorbent between 1.27 g to 1.45 g). Before the experiments in moist air the samples were prehumidified with moist air (relative humidity 70% at 25\u00b0 C.) for about two hours. The amount of water adsorbed was estimated from the increase in the sample weight.","Dry or moist air (relative humidity 70% at 25\u00b0 C.) containing 0.1% (1,000 ppm) SOwas then passed through the column of adsorbent at 500 mL\/min. The breakthrough of SOwas monitored using a MultiRae Plus monitoring system with an electrochemical sensor. The test was stopped at the breakthrough concentration of 20 ppm (sensor limit). The adsorption capacities of each adsorbent in terms of g of SOper g of carbon were calculated by integration of the area above the breakthrough curves, and from the SOconcentration in the inlet gas, flow rate, breakthrough time, and mass of adsorbent. For each sample the SOtest was repeated at least twice. The determined capacities agreed to within 4%.","The dynamic tests were repeated with the experimental conditions maintained the same as those in the wet run except for the absence of water vapor to determine the capacity of the dry adsorbent. The samples run in dry are referred to with the letter designation \u201cD\u201d and those run in moist conditions with the letter designation \u201cM\u201d.","The amount of weakly adsorbed SOwas evaluated by purging the adsorbent column with air at about 450 mL\/min immediately after the breakthrough experiment. The SOconcentration was monitored until its concentration dropped to about 1 ppm.","Nitrogen Adsorption","Nitrogen adsorption isotherms were measured using an ASAP 2010 analyzer available commercially from Micromeritics of Norcross, Ga., at about \u2212196\u00b0 C. Before the experiment, the samples were degassed at about 120\u00b0 C. to a constant pressure of about 10Torr. The isotherms were used to calculate the specific surface area (S), micropore volume (V), total pore volume (V) and pore size distribution. The micropore volume was calculated using Dubinin-Radushkevich approach and the total pore volume seen by the nitrogen molecules, from the last point of the isotherms based on the volume of nitrogen adsorbed. The volume of mesopores (V) represents the different between those two values. The relative microporosity was calculated as the ratio of the micropore volume to the total pore volume.","pH of the Surface","A 0.1 g sample of dry adsorbent was added to 5 mL of deionized water and the suspension stirred overnight to reach equilibrium. The sample was filtered and the pH of solution was measured using an Accumet Basic pH meter available commercially from Fisher Scientific of Springfield, N.J.","Thermal Analysis","Thermal analysis was carried out using TA Instruments Thermal Analyzer available commercially from New Castle, Del. The heating rate was about 10\u00b0 C.\/min in a nitrogen atmosphere at about 100 mL\/min flow rate. The samples were heated up to 1000\u00b0 C.","Scanning Electron Microscopy","Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images were obtained using a Zeiss Supra 55 VP with an accelerating voltage of 5.00 kV. Scanning was performed on a sample powder previously dried (120\u00b0 C.) and sputter coated with a gold to avoid charging.","Elemental Analysis","The content of sulfur was evaluated using X-ray fluorescence (SPECTRO model 300T Benchtop Analyzer available commercially from ASOMA Instruments, Inc. of Marbles Falls, Tex.) based on the calibration curve done for the samples with the internal standard of sulfur. The instrument has a titanium target X-ray tube and a high-resolution detector.","Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy","FTIR spectroscopy was carried out using a Nicolet Magna-IR 830 spectrometer using the attenuated total reflectance (ATR) method. The spectrum was generated and collected 16 times and corrected for the background noise. The experiments were done on the powdered samples, without KBr addition.","Potentiometric Titration","Potentiometric titration measurements were performed with a DMS Titrino 716 automatic titrator available from Metrohm Park Inc. of Houston, Tex. The instrument was set at the mode where the equilibrium pH is collected. Subsamples of the initial and exhausted materials (\u02dc0.100 g) were added to NaNO(0.01 M, 50 mL) and placed in a container maintained at about 25\u00b0 C. overnight for equilibrium. During the titration, to eliminate the influence of atmospheric CO, the suspension was continuously saturated with N. The suspension was stirred throughout the measurements. Volumetric standard NaOH (0.1 M) was used as the titrant. The experiments were done in the pH range of 3-10. Each sample was titrated with base after acidifying the sample suspension. No sharp changes in the slope were noticed which indicates the stability of the material in the experimental pH window.","The experimental data was transformed into a proton binding isotherm, Q, representing the total amount of protonated sites, which is related to the pKdistribution by the following integral equation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"pH"}},{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"pH","mo":",","msub":{"mi":["pK","a"]}}}},{"mi":"f","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["pK","a"]}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["pK","a"]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}]},"The SObreakthrough curves obtained on our adsorbents are collected in . It is noted that GO alone does not retain any sulfur dioxide. In the case of ZrA, water in the system has a detrimental effect on the adsorption capacity and the breakthrough is reached about 25 minutes earlier (\u00bc of the breakthrough time) compared to the experiment run in totally dry conditions. This suggests the competition between SOand water for the adsorption centers. Formulating the compositions with 5 wt % or 20 wt % of GO increases the breakthrough time, especially in moist conditions. Less sensitivity towards the detrimental effect of water is also observed, especially for ZrG-2. A sharp decrease in the SOconcentration during air purging indicates a strong adsorption of sulfur dioxide in the case of all materials.","A list of calculated breakthrough capacities, amount of water preadsorbed, and surface pH values for initial and exhausted samples, is provided in Table 1 as follows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"SOBreakthrough ","HO",{}]},{"entry":[{},"capacity","adsorbed","pH"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Sample","[mg\/g]","[mg\/cm] ","[mg\/g]","In","Exh"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["GO-ED","0.0","0.0","\u2014","2.62","\u2014"]},{"entry":["GO-EM","0.0","0.0","96","2.62","\u2014"]},{"entry":["ZrA-ED","116","147","\u2014","6.58","4.51"]},{"entry":["ZrA-EM","83","106","88","6.58","5.02"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1-ED","146","178","\u2014","7.38","4.45"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1-EM","99","120","86","7.38","5.61"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2-ED","112","136","\u2014","6.85","4.76"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2-EM","106","128","75","6.85","5.06"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3-ED","59","71","\u2014","6.04","4.92"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3-EM","50","57","84","6.04","5.20"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"sub":"2 "},"For further evaluation of the adsorption process, the capacities per gram of adsorbents were analyzed. To visualize the synergetic effect of the composition formation, the measured capacities were compared to those hypothetical ones calculated assuming the physical mixture of the components and their capacities. The results obtained are presented in  (dry conditions) and B (moist conditions). The effect of the enhancement is observed especially for ZrG-1 and ZrG-2. It is interesting that while for the former sample the adsorption in dry conditions seems to benefit from the composition formation as shown in , for the latter sample the enhancing effect is more visible when the moisture is present in the system as shown in . For ZrG-2 there is a very small difference between the capacity measured in dry and moist conditions. The sample with the high content of GO exhibits only the capacity of the ZrA component with no visible synergetic effect. It is interesting that the amount of water adsorbed is not affected by the composition of the materials. This can be caused by the high affinity of GO present to retain water. Slightly less water adsorbed in the case of ZrG-2 can be related to the chemistry of composition formation, which is discussed below.","Interesting behavior is observed in the trend of the surface pH values, which represent the average acidity of the synthesized materials. While Zr(OH)can be considered as chemically neutral, building a composition with a much more acidic component, GO, results in an unexpected increase in samples' basicity. This is a direct indication of the new chemistry formed in this process. Since the basic character of the adsorbents was observed to be important for SOadsorption, this factor has to be considered in derivation of the adsorption mechanism. After SOadsorption, pH becomes much more acidic. We link this result to the chemical reaction and formation of acids and salts.  shows the direct relationship between the decrease in the samples' pH and the amount of SOadsorbed. This linear trend suggests relatively simple chemistry of reactive adsorption.","Based on the results of the XPS study, it is expected that zirconium sulfite, Zr(SO)is a major reaction product on hydrous zirconia. It is believed that only about 10% of hydroxyl groups were involved in surface reactions, assuming that all SOreacted with Zr(OH). In the case of the present materials it is believed that \u201cutilization\u201d of surface chemistry in dry conditions would be 14%, 18%, 14% and 7% for ZrA, ZrG-1, ZrG-2 and ZrG-3, respectively. In wet conditions those number are 10%, 12% 13% and 6% for ZrA, ZrG-1, ZrG-2 and ZrG-3, respectively. In the case of the present compositions, that increase in the surface efficiency can be caused by synergetic effects of both, chemistry and porosity of the new materials. It is interesting to note that even for pure hydrous zirconia the efficiency of the stoichiometric reaction is higher than that for the commercial material.","To propose feasible mechanisms of the composition formation and SOreactive adsorption the porosity of the materials studied has to be analyzed. The measured nitrogen adsorption isotherms are collected in . Their shapes indicate the presence of micropores and mesopores. The volume of latter increases with an increase in the content of GO as evidenced by the shape of the hysteresis loop. The parameters of the porous structure calculated from the nitrogen adsorption isotherms for the initial and exhausted adsorbents are summarized in Table 2 as follows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"S","V","V","V",{}]},{"entry":["Sample","[m\/g]","[cm\/g]","[cm\/g]","[cm\/g]","V\/V"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ZrA","230","0.131","0.071","0.060","0.46"]},{"entry":["ZrA-ED","256","0.151","0.086","0.065","0.43"]},{"entry":["ZrA-EM","230","0.134","0.077","0.057","0.43"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1","201","0.119","0.067","0.052","0.44"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1-ED","222","0.126","0.070","0.056","0.44"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1-EM","220","0.126","0.067","0.059","0.47"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2","219","0.150","0.099","0.051","0.34"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2-ED","206","0.126","0.076","0.050","0.40"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2-EM","202","0.123","0.072","0.051","0.42"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3","141","0.115","0.079","0.036","0.31"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3-ED","154","0.128","0.096","0.032","0.25"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3-EM","160","0.129","0.090","0.039","0.30"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["2 ","4 "],"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},"After exposure to SOno significant changes in the porosity are noticed. This indicates that even though the chemical reaction could take place, the lattice of the materials' structure is preserved, which is rather expected taking into account low stoichiometrical reactivity of surface hydroxyls. That reactivity can be limited to the terminal \u2014OH in the predominantly mesoporous structure of the final materials, owing to their accessibility. If any SOwas physically adsorbed in small pores it could be removed during outgassing at 120\u00b0 C. That outgassing could also remove SOchemically bound if the decomposition temperature of the products of surface reactions was close to that one used during outgassing.","The X-ray diffraction patterns of graphite oxide, hydrous zirconia and its compositions are shown in . For GO, the peak at 2\u0398\u25a111.7\u00b0 corresponds the interlayer distance of 7.59 \u212b. Since hydrous zirconia represents the major component of the composition in graphite oxide, XRD pattern of amorphous hydrous zirconia was expected. For the composition the diffraction peak of GO is not seen and only a small shoulder is visible with an increase in the content of graphite oxide.","Thermal analysis of the materials before and after SOadsorption can throw some lights on the products of surface reactions. The differential thermal gravimetric (DTG) curves are presented in . For the ZrA sample a gradual weight loss is assigned to the dehydration and dehydroxylation of a complex structure of zirconium hydroxide. In the case of the present composition, further weight loss occurs at about 200\u00b0 C. It is seen as a shoulder for ZrG-1 and a well-defined peak for ZrG-3 and they represent the decomposition of the epoxy groups of the GO component (see ). For the unexposed samples a sharp peak at about 460\u00b0 C. of decreasing intensity with an increase in the content of GO represents formation of metastable tetragonal zirconium oxide.","After exposure of ZrA to SOin dry conditions a gradual weight loss is revealed between 220\u00b0 C. and 450\u00b0 C. It is likely related to the removal of water formed in the reaction of SOwith OH groups and to the decomposition of Zr(SO). The weight loss between 200\u00b0 C.-500\u00b0 C. associated with adsorbed SOwas also observed for commercial Zr(OH). A phase transformation to zirconium oxide in ZrA-ED is represented by two sharp peaks at about 500\u00b0 C. This complexity is linked to the more complex chemistry of the exhausted adsorbent than that of the initial sample. Interestingly, when the experiments were run in moist air the similar pattern to that one for unexposed zirconium hydroxide was observed. The only visible difference is at low-temperature peaks (\u02dc100\u00b0 C.) which we linked to the removal of physically adsorbed SOand water with dissolved SO(HSO). For the compositions with 5 wt % and 20 wt % of GO, either run in dry or wet conditions, a gradual weight loss between 250\u00b0 C. and 500\u00b0 C. is observed with visible sharp peaks of the phase transformation at 520\u00b0 C. Moreover, a well-marked weight loss was also observed between 550\u00b0 C. and 800\u00b0 C. It is linked to the decomposition of zirconium sulfate, Zr(SO)with the emission of SO.","Formation of those species in the presence of the GO component can be explained by the oxidative capability of the carbonaceous material with incorporated oxygen functional groups. Moreover, since the GO used in the synthesis was obtained by the Hummers method, sulfonic groups present on the surface can also react with zirconium during the preparation step. This can be seen on the DTG curves about 600\u00b0 C. for the ZrG-2 and ZrG-3. The sharp peaks at temperatures less than 150\u00b0 C. are assigned to the removal of physically adsorbed water and SOdissolved in a water film. Nevertheless, knowing that the solubility of SOin water at 25\u00b0 C. is 9.6 mg\/100 ml and assuming that all pores are filled by water, only a small fraction of SOcan exist in the latter form. That low temperature weight loss is especially well pronounced for ZrG-2, for which the adsorption at moist conditions was high and close to that one in the absence of water.","Results of analysis of weight for the exhausted samples and the expected and measured contents of sulfur after the breakthrough experiments are presented in Table 3 as follows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"\u0394 [%]","\u0394 [%]","\u03a3\u0394","S","S",{}]},{"entry":["Sample","210-400\u00b0 C.","400-700\u00b0 C.","[%]","[%]","[%]","S\/S"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ZrA-ED","1.0","3.06","4.06","5.77","4.4","1.31"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1-ED","1.46","2.54","4.00","7.32","4.6","1.59"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2-ED","0.93","1.43","2.36","5.58","4.1","1.36"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3-ED","0.93","2.12","3.05","2.93","2.5","1.17"]},{"entry":["ZrA-E M","0","0.94","0.94","4.16","4.2","0.99"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1-EM","0.49","1.79","2.28","4.96","3.6","1.37"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2-EM","0.73","1.86","2.59","5.30","3.5","1.51"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3-EM","0","0.55","0.55","2.34","2.4","0.97"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"sub":"2 "},"The differences are greater for the experiments run in dry conditions than for those in moist conditions. This supports our hypothesis that the significant amount of sulfur is physically adsorbed in small pores and removed at temperature less than 200\u00b0 C. This could also explain the unchanged porosity after the breakthrough experiments. That contribution of physically adsorbed sulfur dioxide seems to be especially high for ZrG-1 and ZrG-2. For these two samples the synergetic effect of the enhancement in the SOremoval capacity is high (see ). Interestingly, the synergy in porosity was not important for ZrG-1. This suggests that the enhancement in the capacity of ZrG-1 is mainly caused by chemical factors, whereas for ZrG-2 the porosity effect is predominant. This is supported by the dramatic change in the shape of nitrogen adsorption isotherm between ZrG-1 and ZrG-2. In the latter the hysteresis loop is clearly visible.","In reference to , the FTIR spectra are analyzed to investigate the aspects of changes in surface chemistry. Vibrations characteristic for graphite oxides appear at 1050 cm, 1380 cmand 1630 cm. They correspond to the stretching of C\u2014O bonds from carboxylic groups, to O\u2014H bending from hydroxyl\/phenol groups and to either O\u2014H vibration in water and\/or to the presence of oxygen surface compounds (cyclic ethers), respectively. The band at 1735 cmis characteristic of C\u2550O stretching vibration in carboxylic acids. Vibrations at 990 cmcorrespond to epoxy\/peroxide groups. A band at 1228 cmon the GO spectra might be related to S\u2550O asymmetric stretching vibration in sulfonic groups and\/or vibration of C\u2014O in epoxides. It has to be noted that the symmetric vibration of S\u2550O from sulfonic groups appears at 1050 cmas for the vibration of C\u2014O. The absorption peaks at 1620 cmand 1380 cmfor zirconium hydroxide are assigned to OH groups of water and O\u2014H bending vibration from Zr\u2014OH. The band at 854 cmis attributed to Zr\u2014O lattice vibration. For compositions with low content of GO (5 wt % and 20 wt %) the vibrations of oxygen groups such as epoxide and carboxylic are not visible. When the content of GO reaches 50 wt % these bands appear but they are of lower intensity than those for pure GO. On the other hand, the band at 854 cmrepresenting Zr\u2014O lattice is seen for ZrG-1 and ZrG-2.","After SOadsorption the spectra for ZrA, ZrG-1 and ZrG-2 visibly change in the range between 850 and 1200 cm. Moreover, the bands at 1380 cmand 1620 cmare much less pronounced suggesting replacement of some \u2014OH groups as a result of their reactions with sulfur oxide. This is especially seen on the spectra of samples on which the highest amounts of SOwere adsorbed. The absorption bands between 850 and 1200 cmare linked to the vibrations from sulfur oxygen bonds. SO ions are represented by the bands at 1150 cm, and HSO by the bands at 850 cmand 1030 cm. At 1150 cmthere is also a possibility of vibrations from SO. This is especially seen for the compositions with the lowest content of GO.","In the case of this material it was hypothesized that the enhancement in the amount adsorbed was mainly owing to the new chemistry formed as a result of the synergy between the composition components. That chemistry was demonstrated by the increase in the pH values listed in Table 1. Sulfate bands are likely the result of SOoxidation by either oxygen dissolved in water or superoxide anions O activated by GO layers. The presence of sulfates was suggested by DTG curves for the exhausted compositions.","In reference to , the new chemistry of the compositions is also observed in the pKdistributions for the initial samples. On the surface of GO carboxylic (pK<7) and \u2014OH groups (pH>7) are seen. On the other hand, the peaks at pKabout 4.0, 6.5, 7.8, 9.0 for zirconium hydroxide represent various Br\u00f8nsted acidic groups of Zr\u2014OH. Formation of the composition, even with 5 wt % of GO, results in the appearance of groups with pKof about 5, 6.5 and 8.5, whose amounts cannot be linked proportionally to the content of GO. Also a significant quantity of new groups at pKabout 10 is revealed. They might be responsible for the predominant basicity of the compositions. The significance of the groups detected at the end of the experimental window should not be over interpreted owing to the assumptions used in the calculations.","As indicated in the literature, zirconium hydroxide is envisioned as two-dimensional square lattice, which is connected with each other by bridging hydroxyl groups. GO on the other hand consists of graphene layers with epoxy and \u2014OH groups attached to the basal planes and carboxylic and sulfonic groups existing at the edges of these layers. Those \u2014OH groups of graphene layers dispersed in water can work as a bridging groups resulting in chemical bonds between the two components of the mixture. Another possible mechanism of interactions is hydrogen bonding between the units of hydrous zirconia and the epoxy groups of GO. Mesopores are likely formed as a result of the reactions of zirconium with carboxylic and sulfonic groups of graphene layers, which can lead to the house-of-card structure. They can be also formed between the new units. The change in the zirconium environment was demonstrated by new peaks on the pKdistributions. A small amount of GO in the case of ZrG-1 can explain a lack of synergetic effect on the porosity (see ).","Greater amounts GO promotes greater involvement of \u2014OH groups as bridging groups interacting with zirconium hydroxide components and thus the synergetic effect on the porosity is greater. The lower volume of pores in ZrG-3 compared to other compositions results in the reduced SOremoval capacity. Also the fact that more zirconium is involved in the reactions with the acidic groups of GO causes that the edges of the zirconium oxide phase cannot be active in the reactions of sulfate formation. It is hypothesized that terminal \u2014OH is taking part in the surface reactions. This negatively compensates the synergetic effect caused by the porosity development.","Conversely, the large enhancement in the SOremoval capacity, especially in dry conditions is caused by the increased basicity of the composition. Even though bridging zirconium units with some \u2014OH groups of distorted graphene layers eliminates certain oxygen containing centers of both, GO and Zr(OH). The new centers remain polar\/basic in nature and thus SOcan be adsorbed owing to its polarity. When water is present in the system it competes with SOfor those specific centers, fills up the small pores and SOcan be adsorbed there only by dissolution. The similarity in the amounts of SOadsorbed on ZrG-2 in dry and wet conditions can be linked to more pore space between the graphene and zirconium hydroxides layers compared to that for ZrG-1. The surface in those pores, owing to the nature of graphene, is more hydrophobic than that of hydrous zirconia. Therefore SOis attracted to those pores stronger than water owing to the differences in their polarity (dipole moment of SOis 1.61 D compared to 1.87 D for water).","In reference to , the texture of the samples is presented on SEM micrographs. As seen, Zr(OH)component deposits on the layers of GO. The thin composite layers arranged in agglomerates are especially seen for ZrG-3 owing to the high content of GO and reactions of zirconium hydroxide with surface OH groups. When the content of GO is very small the GO layers in parallel positions are still seen but between them the large units of hydrous zirconia are present. This process of composition formation is visualized in  where zirconium hydroxide units are linked to GO layers via reactions with surface oxygen groups.","Conclusions:","The results presented herein demonstrate the synthesis of hydrous zirconia\/graphene compositions. As a result of the chemical synergy, new pores and new surface chemistry are formed. These effects resulted in the enhancement in sulfur dioxide removal capacity in both dry and moist conditions. The addition of a graphene component makes the surface less competitive towards adsorption of water. It is hypothesized that the compositions are formed via involvement of OH groups of graphene layers in bridging with Zr(OH)lattice and via reactions of zirconium with acidic groups present on the edges of graphene layers. SOis retained on the surface via physical adsorption in small pores and via reactions with terminal \u2014OH groups of hydrous zirconia. The latter reaction leads to the formation of sulfides. There is an indication that the small amount of sulfates is also formed owing to the oxidation of SOby oxygen activated by the specific chemistry of graphene layers.","Materials:","The materials prepared in Example 1 were studied as adsorbents for hydrogen sulfide in the dynamic tests described below under dry (D) and wet conditions (M). After the concentration of HS in the effluent gas reached 100 ppm the samples were considered as exhausted for hydrogen sulfide adsorption. Such samples are identified with letter \u201cE\u201d added to their names.","Methods:","HS Breakthrough Capacity","Dynamic tests were carried out at room temperature to evaluate the capacity of the adsorbents for HS removal from moist air. Adsorbent samples were packed into a glass column (internal diameter 9 mm). A bed volume used was 1.2 cm(with the mass of adsorbent between 1.27 to 1.45 g). Before the experiments in moist air the samples were prehumidified with moist air (relative humidity 70% at 25\u00b0 C.) for two hours. The amount of water adsorbed was estimated from the increase in the sample weight. Humid air containing 0.1% (1,000 ppm) HS was then passed through the column of adsorbent at 500 mL\/min. The breakthrough of HS was monitored using a MultiRae Plus monitoring system with an electrochemical sensor. The test was stopped at the breakthrough concentration of 100 ppm (sensor limit).","The adsorption capacities of each adsorbent in terms of g of HS per g of carbon were calculated by integration of the area above the breakthrough curves, and from the HS concentration in the inlet gas, flow rate, breakthrough time, and mass of adsorbent. For each sample the HS test was repeated at least twice. The determined capacities agreed to within 4%. To check the oxidation capabilities, the concentrations of SOin effluent air were also measured. The presence of weakly adsorbed HS\/SOwas monitored during purging the adsorbent column with air at 470 mL\/min immediately after the breakthrough experiment.","Nitrogen Adsorption","Nitrogen adsorption isotherms were measured using an ASAP 2010 analyzer commercially available from Micromeritics of Norcross, Ga., at \u2212196\u00b0 C. Before the experiment, the samples were degassed at 120\u00b0 C. to a constant pressure of 10Torr. The isotherms were used to calculate the specific surface area, S, micropore volume, V, total pore volume, V, and pore size distribution. The micropore volume was calculated using Dubinin-Radushkevich approach and the total pore volume seen by the nitrogen molecules, from the last point of the isotherms based on the volume of nitrogen adsorbed. The volume of mesopores, V, represents the different between those two values. The relative microporosity was calculated as the ratio of the micropore volume to the total pore volume.","pH of the Surface","A 0.1 g sample of dry adsorbent was added to 5 mL of deionized water and the suspension stirred overnight to reach equilibrium. The sample was filtered and the pH of solution was measured using an Accumet Basic pH meter.","Thermal Analysis","Thermal analysis was carried out using TA Instruments Thermal Analyzer. The heating rate was 10\u00b0 C.\/min in a nitrogen atmosphere at 100 mL\/min flow rate. The samples were heated up to 1000\u00b0 C.","Elemental Analysis","The content of sulfur was evaluated using X-ray fluorescence (SPECTRO model 300T Benchtop Analyzer) based on the calibration curve done for the samples with the internal standard of sulfur. The instrument has a titanium target X-ray tube and a high-resolution detector.","Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR)","FTIR spectroscopy was carried out using a Nicolet Magna-IR 830 spectrometer using the attenuated total reflectance (ATR) method. The spectrum was generated and collected 16 times and corrected for the background noise. The experiments were done on the powdered samples, without KBr addition.","Potentiometric Titration","Potentiometric titration measurements were performed with a DMS Titrino 716 automatic titrator (Metrohm). The instrument was set at the mode where the equilibrium pH is collected. Subsamples of the initial and exhausted materials (0.100 g) were added to NaNO(0.01 M, 50 mL) and placed in a container maintained at 25\u00b0 C. overnight for equilibrium. During the titration, to eliminate the influence of atmospheric CO, the suspension was continuously saturated with N. The suspension was stirred throughout the measurements. Volumetric standard NaOH (0.1 M) was used as the titrant. The experiments were done in the pH range of 3-10. Each sample was titrated with base after acidifying the sample suspension. No sharp changes in the slope were noticed which indicates the stability of the material in the experimental pH window.","The experimental data was transformed into a proton binding isotherm, Q, representing the total amount of protonated sites, which is related to the pKdistribution by the following integral equation:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"Q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"pH"}},{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"\u221e"},"mi":"\u221e"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"pH","mo":",","msub":{"mi":["pK","a"]}}}},{"mi":"f","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["pK","a"]}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["pK","a"]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}]},"The HS breakthrough curves obtained on the sample adsorbents are shown in . The results for GO are not included since the material does not adsorb any hydrogen sulfide. Compared to ZrA, an improvement in the breakthrough time is observed. In all cases no HS was measured after disconnection of the challenge gas and purging with air, which indicates a very strong adsorption. The SOconcentration curves obtained on the sample adsorbents are shown in .","Conversely, from the surface of all materials small quantities of SOwere released which points out that the surface mediated oxidation of sulfur from Sto Stook place. In all cases SOwas released before observation of the breakthrough of HS. This suggests that the surface sites are more favorable for the hydrogen sulfide retention than for that of SO. The analysis of the breakthrough time for SOand the steepness of the desorption curves indicates that ZrG-1 is the adsorbent on which the SOis formed and released from the surface in the smallest relative quantity. This, and the fact that the breakthrough time for HS is the longest suggest that ZrG-1 is the most efficient adsorbent. Interestingly, on the surface of ZrA the highest concentration of the released SOis measured.","The calculated breakthrough capacities, amounts of water preadsorbed, and surface pH values before and after HS adsorption are listed in Table 4 as follows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 4"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"HS ","HO",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Breakthrough capacity","adsorbed","pH"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Sample","[mg\/g]","[mg\/cm]","[mg\/g]","In","Exh"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ZrA","41.3","49.7","87.2","7.04","6.94"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1","52.8","61.6","85.0","6.96","6.82"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2","48.1","57.9","72.3","5.83","5.85"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3","33.2","34.6","46.0","5.26","5.22"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"sub":["2","2"],"figref":"FIG. 12"},"The effect of composition formation on the capacity is shown in  where the measured and hypothetical capacities are compared. The latter values were calculated assuming the physical mixture of the components and taking into account the HS adsorption capacity of each one of them (zero for GO). The results demonstrate the synergetic effect of the process of the composition formation. The percent of improvement increases with an increase in the content of graphite oxide.","Interestingly, contrary to the behavior observed when adsorption of SOon such materials was analyzed, no changes in the surface pH were observed after exposure to the challenge gas. This can be explained only by formation of sulfur or sulfidation of zirconium hydroxide surface. The latter can happen via replacement of terminal hydroxyl groups with SH ions.","In the case of adsorption of SOon hydrous zirconia, zirconium sulfite, Zr(SO)was indicated as the major reaction product. In that case hydroxyl groups were indicated as involved in surface reaction. If we assume that terminal hydroxyl groups associated with zirconium hydroxide are also active in reaction with HS and that all HS reacted with Zr(OH), \u201cutilization\u201d of surface chemistry would be 10%, 12%, 12% and 6% for ZrA, ZrG-1, ZrG-2 and ZrG-3, respectively. Since those numbers are surprisingly similar to those observed in the case of SOadsorption they must represent the numbers of available adsorption centers in the present compositions.","The analysis of the porosity supports the replacement of terminal OH with SH ions. Practically no changes in the porosity are detected as shown by the parameters of porous structure calculated from nitrogen adsorption isotherms listed in Table 5 as follows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0118"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"S","V","V","V",{}]},{"entry":["Sample","(m\/g)","(cm\/g)","(cm\/g)","(cm\/g)","V\/V"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ZrA","230","0.131","0.071","0.060","0.46"]},{"entry":["ZrA-EM","216","0.127","0.073","0.054","0.43"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1","201","0.119","0.067","0.052","0.44"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1-EM","210","0.116","0.059","0.057","0.49"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2","219","0.150","0.099","0.051","0.34"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2-EM","203","0.130","0.081","0.049","0.38"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3","141","0.115","0.079","0.036","0.31"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3-EM","143","0.124","0.090","0.034","0.27"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The alternative explanation to the replacement of terminal OH with sulfur\/sulfate ion would be the total conversion of HS to SO(detected in the outlet gas), its physical adsorption and then removal during outgassing. Nevertheless, since no changes in the pH were observed for the exhausted samples we exclude this hypothesis.","Apparently with an increase in the content of GO the total porosity of the compositions decreases and this has to have a negative effect on both, HS and water adsorption on these materials. As discussed previously, the presence of GO changes the chemical character of the materials and introduces porosity originating from the interface between the GO and zirconium hydroxide units. These pores might have a strong adsorption potential and might be responsible for an increase in the HS adsorption. Also the specific chemistry and an increase in surface basicity associated with oxygen shared with GO and zirconium hydroxide might play a role in the reactions with the adsorbate.","The analysis of the potentiometric titration results confirms the involvement of oxygen containing groups of the compositions in the enhancement of HS adsorption. A comparison of the proton adsorption curves before and after exposure to HS as shown  indicates that the number of groups dissociated at the pH higher than 7 significantly decreased for ZrG-2-EM and ZrG-3-EM. For the ZrG-1-EM on which the adsorption was the highest the decreasing trend is seen almost in the whole pH range. On the other hand, no visible changes are seen for the ZrA, even though a significant amount of HS is adsorbed there.","The pKvalues of the detected species and their numbers are listed in Table 6 as follows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"pK","pK","pK","pK","pK","pK","pK","pK",{}]},{"entry":["Sample","3 - 4","4 - 5","5 - 6","6 - 7","7 - 8","8 - 9","9 - 10","10 - 11","All"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["GO","3.90","4.97","5.84","6.90",{},"8.24","9.11","10.09","2.839"]},{"entry":[{},"(0.214)","(0.172)","(0.217)","(0.492)",{},"(0.428)","(0.429)","(0.887)",{}]},{"entry":["ZrA",{},"4.30","5.91",{},"7.91",{},"9.10","10.14","0.938"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.196)","(0.198)",{},"(0.030)",{},"(0.071)","(0.426)",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"4.90",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.017)",{},{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["ZrA-EM",{},"4.38","5.88",{},"7.73","8.92",{},"10.12","0.899"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.185)","(0.167)",{},"(0.026) ","(0.059)",{},"(0.462)",{}]},{"entry":["ZrG-1",{},"4.00","5.10","6.31",{},"8.56",{},"10.15","1.200"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.193)","(0.132)","(0.136)",{},"(0.102)",{},"(0.637)",{}]},{"entry":["ZrG-1-EM",{},"4.32","5.38","6.25","7.91",{},"9.19","10.14","0.812"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.121)","(0.031)","(0.086)","(0.048)",{},"(0.074)","(0.452)",{}]},{"entry":["ZrG-2",{},"4.00","5.10","6.54","7.58","8.74",{},"10.11","1.709"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.266)","(0.137)","(0.213) ","(0.085)","(0.276)",{},"(0.732)",{}]},{"entry":["ZrG-2-EM",{},"4.21","5.31","6.13","7.94","8.97",{},"10.15","1.256"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.187)","(0.107)","(0.072)","(0.077) ","(0.193)",{},"(0.486)",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"6.87",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"(0.134)",{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["ZrG-3",{},"4.00","5.07","6.34","7.07","8.84",{},"10.15","2.052"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.222)","(0.136)","(0.281)","(0.052)","(0.534)",{},"(0.678)",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"7.79",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},"(0.149)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["ZrG-3-EM",{},"4.09","5.12","6.55",{},"8.45","9.10",{},"1.443"]},{"entry":[{},{},"(0.139)","(0.124)","(0.461)",{},"(0.210)","(0.068)",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"9.83",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},"(0.441)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"sub":["2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0124"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"37.34mm","wi":"76.20mm","file":"US08658555-20140225-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0125"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00002","num":"00002"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00002","he":"35.64mm","wi":"76.20mm","file":"US08658555-20140225-C00002.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sup":["\u2212","\u2212","2"],"sub":["2","2"]},"An analysis of sulfur content after the breakthrough experiment detected by X-ray fluorescence (XRF) and after extraction with water (ratio 1:40) as compared to those on the untreated exhausted samples was performed to confirm the hypothesis that some adsorbed HS\u2033 groups can be replaced by \u2014OH when immersed in water. The results are presented in Table 7.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 7"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"S",{"sup":"a","sub":"XRF"},{"sup":"b","sub":"XRF "},{}]},{"entry":["Sample","[wt. %]","[wt. %]","[wt. %]","S\/S"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["ZrA","3.9","3.8","1.8","1.03"]},{"entry":["ZrG-1","5.0","4.6","2.0","1.09"]},{"entry":["ZrG-2","4.5","3.7","1.6","1.22"]},{"entry":["ZrG-3","3.1","2.7","1.5","1.15"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"left","id":"FOO-00001"},"sup":"a"}},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"left","id":"FOO-00002"},"sup":"b"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"As shown in Table 7, the sulfur content on the surface of our materials detected using XRF is only slightly smaller than that expected based on the breakthrough experiments. It can be due to the fact that some HS had to get oxidized to SOsince its presence was detected in the outlet gas. Comparison of the amounts adsorbed and detected supports the earliest conclusion about the lowest conversion of HS to SOon ZrG-1 compared to other compositions and thus about the best performance of this sample from the point of view of HS reactive adsorption.","Thermal analysis carried out on the exhausted samples revealed only the presence of physically adsorbed water removed from the surface at about 100\u00b0 C. In fact, if zirconium sulfides were formed they would be thermally stable since their decomposition temperature is \u02dc1550\u00b0 C. Nevertheless the potentiometric titration results on exhausted samples exclude their formation. Interestingly no peak associated with the reactions of SOwith terminal groups was observed, which suggests that in the competition for the adsorption centers between HS and SOthe former was the winner and latter was just removed from the system with the gas stream.","The FTIR analysis performed on our samples shows no differences between the spectra for the initial and exhausted samples. It excludes formation of sulfites and sulfates. Unfortunately, the vibration from HS is expected to be very weak and they are not detected.","Zirconium hydroxide is usually envisioned as two-dimensional square lattice, which is connected with each other by bridging hydroxyl groups with coordinated water. GO on the other hand consists of graphene layers with epoxy and \u2014OH groups attached to the basal planes and carboxylic and sulfonic groups existing at the edges of these layers. As it was discussed elsewhere, those \u2014OH groups of graphene layers dispersed in water can work as a bridging groups resulting in chemical bonds between the two components of the mixture. Besides this, hydrogen bonding between the units of hydrous zirconia and the epoxy groups of GO can also take place during composition formation. Those new groups are hypothesized to increase the basicity of the compositions and change the pKof some bridging groups being in their vicinity.","As shown previously, increased basicity, especially when the water is present, causes the shift in the HS dissociation toward the products. Then HS produced can be oxidized by oxygen from air either to sulfur or SO. Since the TA analysis exclude the presence of sulfur or sulfides the HS must replace OH immediately in the terminal groups or be associated with the oxygen groups of the GO component. The latter is likely visible in the decrease in the number of groups having pKin strongly and weakly acidic ranges. The new porosity created in the interface between two components can also enhance adsorption. Some HS got oxidized to SO. It usually happens when their concentration is not too high and the relatively low pH of compositions provides this environment.","The HS likely attacks the terminal OH groups of hydrous zirconia and the reactions occurring between the hydrous zirconia component and HS can be described as:\n\nZr(OH)HO\u2192Zr(OH)(HS)HO+HO\u2192Zr(OH)(HS)HO+HO\u2003\u2003(3)\n","In the present compositions the mechanism is more complex. Hydrous zirconia is attached to the GO via sharing the common oxygen originating from OH group of GO. As in the case of pure zirconium hydroxide, the replacement of terminal OH with SH takes place. Sharing oxygen with GO changed the chemical environment of the other bridging and terminal groups of the Zr(OH)layer attached to the GO. This results in an observed increase in surface basicity.","The effect on the next layers should be less pronounced and the mechanism of adsorption of SH on them should remind that one on pure ZrA. Reaction with epoxy\/carboxylic groups and an incorporation of SH via covalent bonds caused that the changes in surface acidity detected by potentiometric titration in the case of exhausted compositions are permanent as opposite to those for hydrous zirconia. Since small amounts of SOwere detected, some SH were oxidized by atmospheric oxygen.","Conclusions:","The results presented herein demonstrate that new features of hydrous zirconia\/GO compositions, as result of the chemical synergy, enhance reactive adsorption of hydrogen sulfide. HS is retained on the surface via replacement of terminal \u2014OH groups of hydrous zirconia and via reaction of HS with epoxy and carboxylic groups of graphite oxide layers. Some HS are oxidized to SOand removed from the system.","The forgoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion, and from the accompanying claims, that various changes, modifications, and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The following drawings are illustrative of embodiments of the invention and are not intended to limit the invention as encompassed by the claims forming part of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A to 7E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A and 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A to 10D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A and 11B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 14A and 14B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
