---
title: Techniques for generating a trustworthiness score in an online environment
abstract: Some embodiments of this disclosure relate to techniques for determining trustworthiness scores for entities in an online environment. Often, the techniques gather behavioral information regarding entities from a number of different online sources, and then process this information to generate the trustworthiness scores. In some embodiments, a portion of one entity's score can be scaled with regards to a corresponding portion of another entity's score. In still other embodiments, an entity can be provided with a trustworthiness score that has different category components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08781984&OS=08781984&RS=08781984
owner: 
number: 08781984
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20110805
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Application No. 61\/370,999 filed on Aug. 5, 2010.","Trust has long been valued as evidence of character and reliability of an entity, such as an individual, an organization, a company, or a government. However, due to the distributed nature of the Internet and the at least semi-anonymity of entities on the Internet, it has historically been difficult to evaluate whether an entity is trustworthy in an online environment. Furthermore, different websites may use different metrics for evaluating the trust of an individual. Therefore, it may be difficult to compare trust evaluations of an individual from different websites. Additionally, if an entity seeks to establish a trust relationship with a new website, the entity may be forced to essentially start from scratch at the new website because different websites do not typically share trust data (e.g., because of privacy concerns).","Accordingly, this patent application relates to improved techniques for determining trustworthiness in an online environment.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Some embodiments of this disclosure relate to techniques for determining trustworthiness scores for entities in an online environment. Often, the techniques gather behavioral information regarding entities from a number of different online sources, and then process this information to generate the trustworthiness scores. In some embodiments, a portion of one entity's score can be scaled with regards to a corresponding portion of another entity's score. In still other embodiments, an entity can be provided with a number of trustworthiness scores associated with different trust categories.","To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends, the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects, advantages, and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.","The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident, however, that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-3","b":["102","112","120","102","102","120","122","122","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","108","110","106","108","110","102","104"]},"A trust profiler  comes to know about the first entity's relationships with these different online sources , and gathers trust records  from the online sources  indicative of these interactions. In some embodiments, the trust records may have different formats for different online sources. For example, trust record can have one format describing detailed records of the first entity's interactions with other users of the auction site, while trust record can have another format merely indicating a score generated based on the first entity's purchases through the online retailer. In other embodiments, the trust records  may follow a standardized format. The trust profiler  uses these trust records , in conjunction with a trust scoring algorithm  carried out on hardware of the trust profiler, to generate a trust profile  for the first entity . Included in this trust profile  is a trustworthiness score . In some embodiments, the trustworthiness score  can have a numerical value ranging between a minimum value (e.g., 0) to a maximum value (e.g., 1000), wherein the minimum trustworthiness score indicates a complete lack of trustworthiness and a maximum trustworthiness score indicates extremely good trustworthiness.","The trustworthiness score  can be provided to a second entity , thereby allowing the second entity  to evaluate the trustworthiness of the first entity . The second entity  may be a person or a business. In another example, the second entity  may be a logic that may be configured to automatically make a decision using the trustworthiness score . The trustworthiness score  is often provided to the second entity  upon the second entity  requesting the trustworthiness score of the first entity from the trust profiler , although other implementations are also possible. For example, the trustworthiness score of the first entity may be provided to the second entity automatically if the second entity attempts to view a profile of the first entity on a website. In another example, the trustworthiness score of the first entity may be provided automatically to the second entity when second entity reviews transactions initiated by the first entity.","As will be appreciated in more detail with regards to other embodiments disclosed herein, in some implementations (e.g., ) a trust profiler may calculate different trustworthiness scores for different respective entities. The trust profiler may then scale a portion of one entity's score based on a corresponding portion of another entity's score. In still other embodiments (e.g., ), the trust profiler can categorize the online sources into different categories and provide a category score that has different category components. Such an embodiment allows different facets of a first entity's trustworthiness to be evaluated independently by a second entity to make a decision. For example, even if the second entity is hesitant to deal with the entity in commercial online dealings (e.g., because the first entity's commercial trustworthiness score component is low), the second entity may be happy to deal with the first entity with regards to professional matters (e.g., because the first entity's professional score is extremely high). These embodiments may be combined in any number of manners, wherein all such permutations are contemplated as falling within the scope of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","1","200","202","204","202","206","208"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","1","3","300","302"]},"At block , the method  receives a plurality of identifiers from the first entity, wherein each identifier corresponds to different online source with which the first entity has interacted and\/or expects to interact. In FIG. 's example, the first entity  can provide identifiers (e.g., IP addresses, website addresses, user IDs, login-credentials for particular servers, and\/or other identifiers), which specify that the first entity has relationships with online sources .","In block , the trust profiler uses the identifiers to gather trust records regarding the first entity from the respective online sources. These trust records describe behavioral information regarding the first entity with regards to each online source. For example, the trust profiler can query an auction website server to obtain an trust record from the auction site. The trust record from the auction site may indicate, for example, that the entity has engaged in 252 sales and 15 purchases, all with positive feedback and that the first entity has a feedback score of 2,542. The trust profiler can also query an online retailer server to obtain an trust record from the online retailer. The trust record from the online retailer may indicate, for example, that the first entity has a 92% positive feedback rating over the last twelve months. A trust record from a social networking website could also be obtained.","In block  the method determines a number of source scores for the first entity. Each of the source scores corresponds to a different online source with which the first entity interacts. For example, a source score for the auction website, a source score for the online retailer, and a source score for the social networking website can each be independently calculated. Each source score for any given site can account for the first entity's activity on the site. The source score may indicate, for example, whether the first entity has dealt fairly and honesty with other customers on the source. The source score may also account for the first entity's length of membership on that online source. In addition, the source score may also account for the length of time with which the trust profiler  has established a relationship with the online source. Factoring in the reliability of online sources may prevent manipulation of an individual trustworthiness score by registering a large number of dummy websites with the trust profiler.","In block , the method determines a base trustworthiness score for the first entity based on the number of source scores, for example by summing the number of source scores. Thus, the base trustworthiness score includes not only trustworthiness information of the first entity with regards to a single online source, but can include trustworthiness information of the first entity from multiple online sources. In this way, the base trustworthiness score may be more reliable then a single trustworthiness score.","In block , the method  applies an entity diversity multiplier to the base trustworthiness score to generate an overall trustworthiness score. The entity diversity multiplier takes into account how many different online sources from which trust records are gathered for the first entity. Thus, an entity that interacts with many different online sources will tend to have a higher overall trustworthiness score relative to an entity that deals with fewer online sources.","Finally, in block  the overall trustworthiness score of the first entity is provided to a second entity, so that the second entity can evaluate the trustworthiness of the first entity based on the over all trustworthiness score.","It will be appreciated that as the first entity continues to interact with the various online sources (and\/or adds new online sources) in FIG. 's method, the overall trustworthiness score of the first entity can be updated in view of this behavior. In this manner, the overall trustworthiness score reflects the continued and possibly up-to-the-minute trustworthiness of the first entity based on how the first entity is behaving with respect to a number of different online sources.","Referring generally to  illustrates a system where an online trust system  includes a number of different entities  that interact with a number of different online sources . In this example, a trust profiler , which includes a trust scoring algorithm , generates different trustworthy profiles  for the different entities, respectively. Again, the trustworthiness profiles  include trustworthiness scores  for the respective entities . The trustworthiness scores  are provided to a receiving entity , thereby allowing the receiving entity  to evaluate the relative trustworthiness of the entities  based on their respective trustworthiness scores .","In general, each of the entities  can interact with a different combination of online sources  relative to the other entities. For example, Entity  may interact only with Online source  (e.g., an auction website), while Entity  may interact only with Online Source  (e.g., an online retailer). Entity M may interact with Online sources , , and N (e.g., the auction website, the online retailer, and a social networking website). Thus, no particular correspondence between entities and online sources is implied by any discussion herein. Thus, depending on the implementation, the techniques disclosed herein can generate a trustworthiness score for entities interacting with the same online sources or interacting with different online sources.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","4","500","502","410","402","504","506","412","508","414"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"6","sub":["scaled","scaled","source","source "],"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["E","E","\/A","M"]},"Referring now to , method  starts at . At , the method generates a number of trust profiles for a number of entities, respectively. Each of the trustworthiness profiles can include a trustworthiness score corresponding to a particular entity.","At block , the method  gathers his trust records from a common online source with which a group of the entities interact. Thus, in an example where the online sources  in  include an auction website, an online retailer, and a social networking website; all entities in a group of two or more of the entities  can interact with the auction website (a common online source with regards to the group).","In block , the method  determines respective common source scores for the respective entities of the group, based on the gathered trust records. For example, if the individual entities of the group interact with the auction website, each of the individual entities can have a separate common source score that reflects that entity's interaction with the auction website. Thus, one of the entities of the group can have a relatively high common source score (relatively trustworthy), and another of the entities of the group can have a relatively low common source score (relatively untrustworthy).","In block , the method selects some of the common source scores which have a predetermined relationship relative to other non-selected common source scores. In one embodiment, the selected common source scores can all fall within a top percentile within all of the common source scores for the group. For example, if there are 100 entities with source scores for an auction website, the predetermined relationship may be fulfilled for the 5 entities with the highest common source scores.","In block  the method determines a scaling factor based on the selected common source scores. In the example with 100 entities in the group (10 of which having the highest scores are selected), a scaling factor may relate to the average common source score of the 10 selected entities. The scaling factor may be used as the value for A from equation 1.","In block  the method scales all of the common source scores for the entities of the group based on a scaling factor. In this way the method provides a number of respective scaled common source scores for the respective entities of the group.","Finally, in  the method determines overall trustworthiness scores for the entities of the group based on the scaled common source scores. This determination can include summing a number of different source scores for each entity, and multiplying the summed value by a diversity multiplier (see e.g., ). These overall trustworthiness scores can then be provided to a receiving entity (e.g.,  entity ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","702","704","706","702","704"]},"To reflect this multi-category classification, each entity's trustworthiness scores  can include multiple category scores, each of which reflects the entity's trustworthiness for a different category of online sources. Thus, in FIG. 's example, the online sources are categorized according to three different categories, although any number of categories could be used in general. Example categories may include commercial, professional, social networking, academics, community, volunteer, special interest, and so forth. Each entity's trustworthiness score can include a first category score (e.g., indicating trustworthiness of the entity in a commercial context), a second category score (e.g., indicating trustworthiness of the entity in a professional context), a third category score (e.g., indicating trustworthiness of the entity in a social networking context), and so on.","Further, in some embodiments, entities' category scores with a given category can be scaled as a function of the highest scores within that given category. For example, all of the commercial category scores can be scaled based on the top 5% of commercial category scores across all entities, and\/or all of the professional category scores can be scaled based on the top 10% of professional category scores across all entities. In this way entities do not have their trustworthiness scores scaled to an absolute reference frame within each category, but rather the scaling is relative to other entities.","By providing trustworthiness scores in this multi-faceted manner, a receiving entity  can evaluate different facets of an entity's behavior instead of merely the entity's overall online behavior. For example even if the other entity would not want to interact with an entity in a commercial context because the entity has a relatively low commercial score, the other entity may be willing to interact with the entity in a professional context because the entity's professional score is relatively high.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","802"]},"At block  the trust profiler receives a list of identifiers from each of the plurality of sources. These identifiers identify a number of online sources with which each entity interacts.","At block , the trust profiler classifies the online sources according to a number of different categories. In one embodiment, the categories could include commercial, professional, and social networking. However, in other embodiments, the categories could include commercial, professional, social networking, volunteering, community, as well as others in addition to or in place of those listed.","At block , the method  gathers trust records from the online sources.","In block , the method determines one or more category scores for the entities based on the gathered trust records.","In block , the method identifies the highest category scores within each category. Thus, the category scores are indexed relative to a slice of scores that are greater than a predetermined threshold.","In block , the method determines a scaling factor for a category based on the highest category scores.","In block , the category scores are scaled based on the scaling factors. In this way, a number of scaled category scores are provided for the entities.","Finally at block , the scaled category scales are provided to a receiving entity, thereby allowing the other entity to evaluate various facets of trustworthiness for the entities.","In some embodiments, a trustworthiness record for an entity includes information in regards to a referral score regarding the entity, wherein the referral score is provided by a referrer. In such instances, the value of the referral score can be based on a trustworthiness score of the referrer. In this way, entities that are deemed \u201ctrustworthy\u201d carry more weight, relatively to less trustworthy entities, in determining the trustworthiness of other entities.","Also, although it has been mentioned above that some techniques may sum scores together, it will also be appreciated that demerit techniques can also be used by which \u201cbad\u201d behavior subtracts points from an entity's trustworthiness score.","In some embodiments, a trust profiler provides a receiving entity (e.g.,  in ,  in ,  in ) with trustworthiness indicia, which includes the trustworthiness score, and which can be embedded in a communication from the trust profiler to the receiving entity. This communication can take the form of an email message, or a website affiliated with the trust profile, a text message, etc. In some embodiments, the trustworthiness indicia includes an icon visually displayed on the communication. Also, in some embodiments, the trust profiler will provide the trustworthiness indicia to the entity associated with the trustworthiness score, to allow the entity associated with the trustworthiness score to pass its own trustworthiness score on to other entities in a reliable manner.","The claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method, apparatus, or article of manufacture using standard programming and\/or engineering techniques to produce software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term \u201carticle of manufacture\u201d as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device, carrier, or media. Of course, those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIGS. 10","i":["a","h "],"b":"10"},"Using the identifiers provided by Aaron, the trust profiler may obtain trust records from the various websites identified by Aaron. The trust records received from the websites may include different information depending on the records kept by the various websites. For example, a trust record from the auction site may include detailed records regarding Aaron's transaction history of sales and purchases in addition to feedback Aaron received based on his interactions with users. In another example, a trust record from the retail sales site may provide a numerical score generated based on similarly detailed records. A less detailed trust profile may be provided in situations where, for example, the source has a strict privacy policy. In another example, the trust record from the bicycle hobbyist forum may merely include the date Aaron registered with the forum and the number of actions Aaron has performed on the forum. The bicycle hobbyist forum may provide a less detailed trust record because the bicycle hobbyist forum does not keep detailed trust records.","Based on the trust records received from each of the websites, the trust profiler may generate a source score associated with each of the websites. illustrates example data that may be used for generating source scores. In this example, a source score for the auction site is generated based on the length of time Aaron has been registered at the auction site (i.e., Membership Points), the length of time Aaron has shared with the trust profiler Aaron's credentials with the auction site (i.e., Time on Report), and the detailed records provided by the Auction site regarding Aaron's activities (i.e., Activity Points).","Example data used for calculating Membership Points are illustrated in . Included in Aaron's trust profile received from the source is the length of time that Aaron has been a member at the source website. Depending on the amount of time Aaron has been a member at the source, the trust profiler assigns Aaron a number of points. In this example, Aaron has been a member at the source for 13 months. Therefore, Aaron earns 2 points per month for the first 12 months for a total of 24 points, and 3 points for the 13month for a total of 27 points. Based on points earned by other users, Aaron's membership score may be weighted according to Equation 1 above where M in this example is 400.","Example data for calculating a Time on Report score are illustrated in . Once Aaron associates his trust profile with his account on a source, the trust profiler may begin to keep track of the amount of time that Aaron has shared his trust profile from the source. In this example, Aaron earns 1 point per month, for a total of 1 point. The total number of points may be normalized according to Equation 1 above to create Aaron's Time on Report score.","Example data for calculating an Activity Score are illustrated in . Based on the trust record regarding Aaron received by the trust profiler from the source, the trust profiler may generate reputation points that represent the credibility of Aaron's activities on the source. The reputation points may then be normalized according to Equation 1 above to generate adjusted reputation points. The adjusted reputation points may be summed with an out-of-score to create a total, which may then be normalized again according to Equation 1 to create Aaron's activity score. In one example, the reputation points may be derived from subjected measures of a user's credibility, whereas an out-of-score may be derived from an objective value. However, other measures may be used.","Referring back to , a source score may be generated by summing the Membership Points, the Time on Report, and the Activity Points to obtain the Total Points. When the trust profiler is generating the source scores for Aaron, Aaron's source scores may also be weighted as a function of information that evaluates the trustworthiness of each individual website. This weighting accounts for the difference between the Total Points column and the Source Adjusted column. For example, if the bicycle hobbyist forum has less than a certain number of users, the forum may be seen as a less reliable indicator of trust than other sources. Therefore the trust profiler may multiply Aaron's source score associated with the bicycle forum by a coefficient that reduces the score's weight on Aaron's base score. In another example, if the social networking website is a new source that has not been validated by the trust profiler or if the trust profiler has reason to believe that the social networking website is untrustworthy, Aaron's source score for the social networking site may be reduced so the score has a reduced impact on other scores associated with Aaron's trust profile. Assigning sources their own credibility ratings may make it more difficult for a user to inflate their base trustworthiness score by creating a large number of dummy sites and registering the dummy sites with the trust profiler.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"i":["e ","a"]},"The diversity multiplier may be a value generated as a function of the total number of sources that are associated with Aaron's trust profile as illustrated in . The trust profiler may determine the median number of sources associated with each entity. Based on the median, the trust profiler may generate ranges for various diversity multipliers. For example, in , users associated with less than 60% of the median number of sources will have their base source score multiplied by 0.75, and users associated with greater than 140% of the median number of sources will have their base source score multiplied by 1.25. Users between 60% and 140% of the median will not have their base source score changed.","The renaissance man score may be generated based on the number of sources that are associated with Aaron's trust profile, as well as the number of categories that the sources are associated with as illustrated in . For example, the auction site and the retail sales site may be associated with a commercial category. The social networking site may be associated with a social category. The business networking site may be associated with the professional category. And the bicycle hobbyist forum may be associated with the special interest and the social categories. A person having ordinary skill in the art can see how different types of websites may fit into a number of different categories. The renaissance man score may be normalized according to Equation 1.","The referral score may be generated based on referrals the trust profiler has received regarding Aaron from other trust profiler users. In calculating the referral score, the trust profiler may give greater weight to referrals received from users with higher global trust scores than referrals received from users with lower global trust scores.","The trust profiler may also generate category scores for Aaron using data as illustrated in . A category score may be generated based on sources associated with the category. Thus, using the example category associations from above, Aaron's social category score may be generated based on his source scores from the social networking website, the business networking website, and the bicycle hobbyist website. In this example, the category score is generated by normalizing according to Equation 1, the average trust scores received by Aaron in each category. Category scores may also take into account the number of sources from which Aaron has provided trust records associated with the category.","Now that Aaron has a global trust score and category scores, another user, Beth, may request these scores from the trust profiler so that she can evaluate how she wants to interact with Aaron. For example, if Aaron has a low global trust score relative to other users, Beth may be less inclined to purchase something from Aaron on the auction website. However, even if Aaron's global trust score is low compared to other users, if Aaron's social category score is high compared to other users, Beth may still be willing to give Aaron's opinion on the bicycle hobbyist forum greater weight despite Aaron's low global score. In one example, the trust data may be provided to Beth in a manner that does not reveal Aaron's identity to Beth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"]},"Although not required, embodiments are described in the general context of \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media (discussed below). Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules, such as functions, objects, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), data structures, and the like, that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically, the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","902","902","906","908","908","904"]},"In other embodiments, device  may include additional features and\/or functionality. For example, device  may also include additional storage (e.g., removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic storage, optical storage, and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by storage . In one embodiment, computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage  may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system, an application program, and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory  for execution by processing unit , for example.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory  and storage  are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Device  may also include communication connection(s)  that allows device  to communicate with other devices. Communication connection(s)  may include, but is not limited to, a modem, a Network Interface Card (NIC), an integrated network interface, a radio frequency transmitter\/receiver, an infrared port, a USB connection, or other interfaces for connecting computing device  to other computing devices. Communication connection(s)  may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection(s)  may transmit and\/or receive communication media.","The term \u201ccomputer readable media\u201d may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.","Device  may include input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, infrared cameras, video input devices, and\/or any other input device. Output device(s)  such as one or more displays, speakers, printers, and\/or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device(s)  and output device(s)  may be connected to device  via a wired connection, wireless connection, or any combination thereof. In one embodiment, an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device(s)  or output device(s)  for computing device .","Components of computing device  may be connected by various interconnects, such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), such as PCI Express, a Universal Serial Bus (USB), firewire (IEEE 1394), an optical bus structure, and the like. In another embodiment, components of computing device  may be interconnected by a network. For example, memory  may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.","Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example, a computing device  accessible via network  may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device  may access computing device  and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively, computing device  may download pieces of the computer readable instructions, as needed, or some instructions may be executed at computing device  and some at computing device .","Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment, one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media, which if executed by a computing device, will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further, it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.","Moreover, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather, use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor\u201d. That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from context, \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, if X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B, then \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.","Also, although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations, equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components (e.g., elements, resources, etc.), the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified function of the described component (e.g., that is functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition, while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms \u201cincludes\u201d, \u201chaving\u201d, \u201chas\u201d, \u201cwith\u201d, or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising.\u201d"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 10","i":["a","h "],"b":"10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
