---
title: Integrated external combustion radial piston engine-generator
abstract: A engine-generator is provided which has a rotary engine formed with an engine housing having an output surface portion and an output shaft on a central axis extending externally of the engine housing. A generator has a stator secured to the output end of the shaft and has a surface in a confronting relation with the engine housing. Permanent magnets and windings are secured to the respective surface portion of the engine housing and stator at a radial distance from the axis. Each magnet and winding has a corresponding pole face lying in a corresponding one of a pair of first planes orthogonal to the central axis. The magnets and windings are rotatable with respect to each other and periodically align in a confronting relationship to define an air-gap between the parallel planes. The windings produce electrical output in response to rotation of the magnets relative to each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08461703&OS=08461703&RS=08461703
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08461703
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110422
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","None.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention is directed to a compact external combustion engine-generator that is capable of increasing energy generation in unmanned submersibles or unmanned undersea vehicles.","2) Description of the Prior Art","Unmanned Undersea Vehicles (UUVs), which operate independent of air, typically use thermal engines with air-independent fuels or use electrical power with energy delivered by primary batteries, secondary batteries, fuel cells and the like. The range of these non-air breathing vehicles is limited.","The range may be significantly increased if an air-breathing engine is used to recharge the batteries. This is a method used in which a diesel engine drives a generator which charges the batteries. The method has not yet been widely implemented with UUVs, because the engine and generator occupy a large amount of space and have substantial weight; thereby; leaving little allocation for fuel storage, batteries and payload.","Accordingly, it is desirable to employ a compact air-breathing engine-generator combination for use in UUVs.","The invention is a compact engine-generator employing an integrated rotary engine and generator. In the invention, the output crankshaft and housing are mounted for rotation with respect to each other. The generator has a stator secured to an end portion of the output crankshaft. Permanent magnets are secured to the engine housing at a radial distance from the axis. Each magnet has a first pole face lying in a first plane orthogonal to the central axis.","Windings are affixed to the stator at a radial distance from the central axis. Each winding has a corresponding second pole face lying in a second plane orthogonal with the central axis and being spaced apart from and confronting the first plane. The first pole and second pole are rotatable with respect to each other for periodically aligning in a confronting relationship to define an air-gap therebetween. The windings produce an electrical output in response to rotation of the magnets relative thereto.","In an exemplary embodiment, the engine has a housing formed with external surface portions. An output crankshaft has ends extending outwardly through openings in the housing on a common central axis. A generator is secured to the ends of the crankshaft. Surface portions of the housing are disposed in a confronting relationship with corresponding surface portions of the stator.","Permanent magnets are affixed to or imbedded in the surface portions of the engine housing at a radial distance from the axis. Each magnet has a corresponding first pole face lying in a first plane orthogonal to the central axis. Windings are affixed to or imbedded in the corresponding surface portions of the stator at a radial distance from the central axis. Each winding has a corresponding second pole face lying in a second plane orthogonal with and confronting the first plane in a spaced relationship. The first pole and second pole are rotatable with respect to each other and periodically align in an confronting relationship to define an air-gap. The windings produce an electrical output in response to rotation of the magnets relative to the windings. In an exemplary embodiment, the engine is a radial piston rotary engine.","In various described embodiments, the term \u201crotary engine\u201d is used. A rotary engine generally refers to an engine where the engine housing rotates and the crankshaft is stationary. One type of rotary engine (namely a radial piston rotary engine) employs reciprocating pistons having an odd number of cylinders per row in a radial configuration.","In such an arrangement, the crankshaft is held stationary and the cylinder block rotates about the crankshaft. In another type of rotary engine, namely a lobed rotor rotary engine (known as the Wankel engine) is a pistonless engine, which employs a lobed rotor which rotates relative to the engine housing. In one embodiment, the rotating engine housing is affixed with surface-mounted or imbedded permanent magnets which rotate within a fixed stator coil and forms the rotating component of the generator\/alternator.","As illustrated in , there is shown an engine-generator  having a radial piston rotary engine . The engine-generator  includes an engine housing  formed with radial cylinders  and pistons  mounted for a rectilinear motion within a corresponding cylinder. The pistons  are coupled to a stationary and contiguous output crankshaft  having a central axis \u201cA\u201d via connecting rods . The radial piston rotary engine is known to those ordinarily skilled in the art and is not discussed in detail other than to describe the relative motion of the engine housing , which rotates and the crankshaft which is stationary.","The crankshaft , has a pair of output ends  secured in openings  of the engine housing . The crankshaft  translates the rectilinear motion of the pistons  to rotate the housing. The housing  has external outwardly-facing surface portions  that rotate with the housing about the crankshaft .","The engine-generator  has a generator , including a fixed stator  coupled to the output ends  of the crankshaft . The stator  is formed with inwardly-facing external surface portions  in a confronting relationship with the outwardly-facing external surface portions  of the engine housing . The stator  is fixed to the output ends  of the crankshaft .","Permanent magnets  are affixed to or imbedded in the outwardly-facing surface portions  of the engine housing  at a selected fixed radial distance from the central axis A for rotation therewith. The magnets  are arranged such that each has a pole face  lying in a corresponding one of a pair of first planes P orthogonal to the central axis.","Stator windings  are wound onto the stator  adjacent to the inwardly-facing external surface portion  at the selected radial distance from the axis A. Each winding has a pole face  lying in a corresponding one of a pair of second planes P orthogonal with the central axis A and parallel to the first planes P. As the housing  rotates, the pole faces  of the magnets  are periodically carried into a confronting relationship with the pole faces  of the stator windings; thereby, forming a controlled dimension air-gap  through with flux passes therebetween. The stator windings  are wound in an electrical configuration to match the number of permanent magnet pole pairs and to generate induced electrical current as the engine housing  rotates.","The rotating engine housing  is configured with gas inlet ports and exhaust valve ports (not shown) to control the sequence of working fluid flow to and from the cylinders.","A high pressure working fluid (for example: hot gas) is ported into the cylinders from a combustion chamber and inlet tube (not shown). The hot gas imparts an axial force on the pistons ; thereby, resulting in rotary motion of the engine housing  with respect to the stator . Cooling channels  enable heat removal from the stator .","In known configurations, diesel-electric power plants are separately housed and mechanically connected by a coupling shaft. In an embodiment of the invention, the radial piston rotary engine portion and the magnet generator  are combined into a single integrated housed device; thereby, reducing size and weight, and enabling smaller, lighter devices for use in UUV applications.","Alternative embodiments may employ a spark ignition internal combustion engine, a compression ignition internal combustion engine or an external combustion engine. The engine may be powered by combustion of a monopropellant or bi-propellant fuel\/oxidizer energy source. The engine may be configured with one or more cylinders, pistons or rotor lobes.","The various embodiments employ different engine and generator components, but are not limited to any particular type of engine-generator. Because there are many variables, assumptions and parameters involved in designing the engine-generator described herein; it is not possible to describe all the possible designs. However, it is believed that the described embodiments are sufficient to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to find a useful design for a particular application."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"}},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
