---
title: Device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit
abstract: A device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit and thus having signal maintaining function is provided, wherein the device is composed of a data signal, a scan data input signal, a stored signal, a choosing data input signal, a time clock signal, a restoring signal, a first signal channel, a scan latch, a second signal channel, a pulse latch, a normal output signal, an output signal, a first OR gate, a second OR gate, a third OR gate, a AND gate and an inverter connecting to one another. The device may store the data when being switch off and restore the data when being switch on again.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08461866&OS=08461866&RS=08461866
owner: Global Unichip Corporation
number: 08461866
owner_city: Hsinchu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20110420
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention generally relates to a pulse latch device, and more particularly to a device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit and thus having data storage function.","2. Description of the Prior Art","A conventional pulse latch can't be applied to the circuit design with low power and low energy consumption since the electronic device can't store data when being switch off, and thus the data would be disappeared or lost after the electronic device is switch off. Therefore, a storage component unaffected by the power must be added in a logic circuit, i.e. consuming additional times to store the data in and to restore the data from a non-power-off storage component. However, the method consumes not only additional storing and restoring times but also additional electric powers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["101","102","103","104","105","106","107","108"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},"\u201cActive\u201d representing at a normal operating state;","\u201cEnter Sleep\u201d representing to enter into a sleep state;","\u201cSleep\u201d representing at a sleep state;","\u201cLeave Sleep\u201d representing to leave from a sleep state; and","\u201cActive\u201d representing at a normal operating state.","In addition, the vertical axis at left side in  is divided into 4 signals from top to bottom comprising a SleepEn signal, a NSLEEPIN signal, a CK signal and a Q signal with functions different from one another. Thus, as variations of signal waves illustrated in , the conventional latch circuit can't store the data, i.e. the data is lost, after the conventional latch circuit is switch off. Hence, the conventional pulse latch can't store the data due to the stored data will be lost after the conventional pulse latch is switch off, thus the data must be stored in a non-power-off storage component which consumes additional times to store and restore the data. Note that the method also consumes additional electric powers and thus unable to applied to a lower power circuit device.","Accordingly, it is important to provide a new pulse latch circuit for providing a latch circuit with higher efficiency and storage function, thereby increasing the storage efficiency and decreasing power consuming.","The present invention is directed to a device for storing pulse latch and thus having signal maintaining function, which may store the data when being switch off and restore the data when being switch on again.","The present invention provides a device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit comprising a data signal, a scan data input signal, a stored signal, a choosing data input signal, a time clock signal, a restoring signal, a first signal channel, a scan latch, a second signal channel, a pulse latch, a normal output signal, an output signal, a first \u201cOR gate\u201d, a second \u201cOR gate\u201d, a third \u201cOR gate\u201d, an \u201cAND gate\u201d, and an \u201cinverter\u201d. Herein, the \u201cdata signal\u201d connects the \u201cnormal output signal\u201d, connects the \u201csecond signal channel\u201d, and together with the \u201cscan data input signal\u201d connects the \u201cfirst signal channel\u201d. The \u201cscan data input signal\u201d together with the data signal connects the \u201cfirst signal channel\u201d, connects the \u201cscan latch\u201d, and connects the \u201csecond signal channel\u201d in sequence, wherein the \u201csecond signal channel\u201d connects the \u201cpulse latch\u201d and then connects the \u201cnormal output signal\u201d. The \u201cstored signal\u201d connects the \u201cfirst signal channel\u201d and the \u201cfirst OR gate\u201d. The \u201cchoosing data input signal\u201d connects the AND gate and then connects the \u201csecond OR gate\u201d. The \u201ctime clock signal\u201d connects the \u201cAND gate\u201d, connects the \u201csecond OR gate\u201d and connects the \u201cthird OR gate\u201d. Thereafter, the restoring signal connects the \u201cinverter\u201d, connects the second \u201cOR gate\u201d and connects the third \u201cOR gate\u201d in sequence, so as to form the device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit.","According to the device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit of the present invention, a data of the pulse latch is stored in the scan latch due to a stored pulse signal is inputted when the device is switched off, and a data of the scan latch is restored to the pulse latch due to a pulse signal is restored when the device is switched on.","The present invention uses two power supplies, including a primary power supply and a secondary power supply, so as to store data and to restore data by adding circuits.","In the present invention, it is possible to remain the secondary power supply only for supplying the storage circuit after the primary power supply is switched off, which means the storage circuit is able to be operated with the secondary power supply only. Thus, the non-power-off circuit is relatively small and the power consuming thereof is fewer, so as to achieve power saving and data storing.","Reference will now be made in detail to specific embodiments of the present invention. Examples of these embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with these specific embodiments, it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. In fact, it is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a through understanding of the present invention. The present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances, well-known process operations are not described in detail in order not to obscure the present invention.","The present invention is directed to a device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit, which may store the data and restore the data by two control signals and relative gates after being switched off and is described in detail as illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["201","202","203","204","205","206","207","208","209","210","211","212","212","212","213","214"]},"Still referring to , the data signal  connects the normal output signal  and the second signal channel . The data signal  further connects the first signal channel  together with the scan data input signal .","Continuously referring to , the scan data input signal  connects the first signal channel  together with the data signal , and then connects the scan latch  and the second signal channel  in sequence, wherein the second signal channel  connects the pulse latch  and then connects the normal output signal .","Also referring to , the storing signal  connects the first signal channel  and the first OR gate A.","Referring to , the choosing data input signal  connects the AND gate  and then connects the second OR gate B.","Still referring to , the time clock signal  connects the AND gate , the second OR gate B and the third OR gate C.","Also referring to , the restoring signal  connects the inverter , the second OR gate B and the third OR gate C in sequence.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},"\u201cActive\u201d representing at a normal operating state;","\u201cEnter Sleep\u201d representing to enter into a sleep state;","\u201cSleep\u201d representing at a sleep state;","\u201cLeave Sleep\u201d representing to leave from a sleep state; and","\u201cActive\u201d representing at a normal operating state.","Still referring to  illustrating a time clock signal diagram of a pulse latch circuit, the vertical axis at left side is divided into 4 states from top to bottom comprising:","a SleepEn step signal represented with the number ;","a NSLEEPIN signal represented with the number  indicating that the device is switched off during the Sleep state;","a CK time clock signal represented with the number  indicating that there is no signal during the Sleep state;","a Q signal represented with the number  indicating that there is no signal during the Sleep state but there has a signal during the Leave Sleep state, since the signal is restored by a NRESTORE signal represented with the number ;","a SAVE signal represented with the number  indicating that a pulse signal is inputted during the Enter Sleep state;","the NRESTORE signal represented with the number  indicating that a signal is restored during the Leave Sleep state; and","a QS signal represented with the number  indicating that 7 signals with all different functions are outputted.","According to , the original signal can be restored by controlling the SAVE signal and the NSLEEPIN signal, and the SAVE signal and the NSLEEPIN signal enter into a low power region during the Leave Sleep state.","Accordingly,  illustrates a schematic diagram of a device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit according to an embodiment of the present invention, wherein the pulse latch is in the \u201cActive\u201d state when the present invention is in a Function Mode with conditions of SE=0, SAVE=0, NRESTORE=1.","In addition,  illustrates a schematic diagram of a device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit according to an embodiment of the present invention, wherein the scan latch and the pulse latch are formed as a register when the present invention is in a Scan Mode with conditions of SE=1, SAVE=0, NRESTORE=1, which means that the represented function of the device of the present invention in the Scan Mode is the same as the register used in most of the logic circuit design, and thus the device of the present invention may have the advantage of the register.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"]},"Finally,  illustrates a schematic diagram of a device for storing pulse latch with logic circuit according to an embodiment of the present invention, which represents states of each signals when the present invention is in a Restore Mode with conditions of SE=0, SAVE=0, NRESTORE=0. In another word,  represents that the data of the scan latch is fed back to the pulse latch and the information is temporarily stored in the scan latch.","Accordingly, the data of the pulse latch is stored in the scan latch due to the stored pulse signal is inputted when the device of the present invention is switched off. In addition, the data of the scan latch is restored to the pulse latch due to the pulse signal is restored when the device of the present invention is switched on.","In summary, the present invention discloses a device for storing pulse latch and thus having signal maintaining function, i.e., data storage function. The data is able to be stored when the device is switched off and is also able to be restored when the device is switched on again. The present invention uses two power supplies, including a primary power supply and a secondary power supply, so as to remain the secondary power supply for supplying the storage circuit only after the primary power supply is switched off. In addition, the present invention may also store data and restore data by adding circuits and is able to be operated with the secondary power supply only. Thus, the non-power-off circuit is relatively small and the power consuming thereof is fewer, so as to achieve power saving and data storing.","It is understood that various other modifications will be apparent to and can be readily made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention. Accordingly, it is not intended that the scope of the claims appended hereto be limited to the description as set forth herein, but rather that the claims be construed as encompassing all the features of patentable novelty that reside in the present invention, including all features that would be treated as equivalents thereof by those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing aspects and many of the attendant advantages of this invention will become more readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
