---
title: X-ray source with selective beam repositioning
abstract: During operation of an x-ray source, an electron source emits a beam of electrons. Moreover, a repositioning mechanism selectively repositions the beam of electrons on a surface of a target based on a feedback parameter, where a location of the beam of electrons on the surface of the target defines a spot size of x-rays output by the x-ray source. In response to receiving the beam of electrons, the target provides a transmission source of the x-rays. Furthermore, a beam-parameter detector provides the feedback parameter based on a physical characteristic associated with the beam of electrons and/or the x-rays output by the x-ray source. This physical characteristic may include: at least a portion of an optical spectrum emitted by the target, secondary electrons emitted by the target based on a cross-sectional shape of the beam of electrons; an intensity of the x-rays output by the target; and/or a current from the target.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08831179&OS=08831179&RS=08831179
owner: Carl Zeiss X-Ray Microscopy, Inc.
number: 08831179
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110421
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure relates generally to an x-ray source and associated methods. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to an x-ray source that selectively repositions a beam of focused electrons to different locations on a surface of a target based on a feedback parameter, which is based on a physical characteristic associated with the beam of electrons and\/or the x-rays output by the x-ray source.","X-rays are widely used in micro-analysis and imaging because of their small wavelengths and their ability to penetrate objects. Imaging applications of x-ray sources include an x-ray imaging microscope and an x-ray point projection microscope. In an x-ray imaging microscope, a characteristic line of the x-ray source (i.e., monochromatic x-rays) is typically used with an x-ray lens (such as a Fresnel lens) to image an object. The resolution and aberrations associated with an x-ray imaging microscope are usually determined by the wavelength of the characteristic line.","In contrast, in an x-ray point projection microscope, a small x-ray source is used in conjunction with geometric magnification to image an object. Because an x-ray point projection microscope does not have aberrations, the resolution of an x-ray point projection microscope is typically determined by the size of the x-ray source. Ideally, the x-ray source would be a point source. In practice, the x-ray source is considerably larger. For example, if a tungsten wire is used to provide the x-rays, the x-ray-source size may be 50-200 \u03bcm; similarly, if a dispenser cathode (such as tungsten in a calcium-oxide mixture) is used to provide the x-rays, the x-ray-source size may be 1-5 mm. These x-ray-source sizes may limit the resolution of an x-ray point projection microscope.","Moreover, in these applications there is typically a tradeoff between the x-ray intensity and the operating life of the target or the x-ray intensity and the x-ray beam quality. In particular, as the electron-beam current (and, thus, the power consumption) in an x-ray source is increased, the cross-sectional diameter of the electron beam is also increased. This usually increases the cross-sectional diameter of the beam of x-rays output by the x-ray source. Furthermore, as the electron-beam current is increased, the operating life of the target is decreased because the degradation of the location on the target that is bombarded by the electrons is accelerated.","Therefore, there is a need for an x-ray source without the problems listed above.","One embodiment of the present invention provides an x-ray source. This x-ray source includes an electron source that emits a beam of electrons. Moreover, a repositioning mechanism selectively repositions the beam of electrons on a surface of a target based on a feedback parameter, where a location of the beam of electrons on the surface of the target defines a spot size of x-rays output by the x-ray source. Then, in response to receiving the beam of electrons, the target provides a transmission source of the x-rays. Furthermore, a beam-parameter detector provides the feedback parameter during operation of the x-ray source based on a physical characteristic associated with the beam of electrons and\/or the x-rays output by the x-ray source.","Note that the beam-parameter detector may include: an optical detector, a secondary electron detector, a backscatter electron detector, an x-ray detector, and\/or a current detector. Moreover, the physical characteristic may include: at least a portion of an infrared spectrum or a visible spectrum emitted by the target when it receives the beam of electrons; secondary electrons emitted by the target based on a cross-sectional shape of the beam of electrons; an intensity of the x-rays output by the target; and\/or a current from the target.","Furthermore, the repositioning mechanism may scan the beam of electrons over the target, where the beam-parameter detector includes an image sensor and the physical characteristic includes an image of the target.","Additionally, the target may include features having a cross-sectional diameter, where the features facilitate focusing the beam of electrons to the spot size. For example, the repositioning mechanism may selectively reposition the beam of electrons towards one or more of the features based on a user input and\/or the feedback parameter. Note that the features may include holes, defined by associated edges, in the target. These holes may be, at least in part, filled with a refractory material that is other than a material of the target surrounding the holes. Moreover, at least some of the holes may have different cross-sectional diameters and\/or different thicknesses, thereby facilitating different spot sizes and different intensities of the x-rays output by the x-ray source depending on the location of the beam of electrons on the surface of the target.","In some embodiments, the features include protrusions fabricated on the surface of the target. These protrusions may include a refractory material other than a material of the target surrounding the protrusions. Moreover, at least some of the protrusions may have different cross-sectional diameters and\/or different thicknesses, thereby facilitating different spot sizes and different intensities of the x-rays output by the x-ray source depending on the location of the beam of electrons on the surface of the target.","In some embodiments, the x-ray source includes a magnetic focusing lens that focuses the beam of electrons to a spot, having an initial spot size, on the target. In these embodiments, the feedback parameter may correspond to a difference between a cross-sectional diameter corresponding to the initial spot size of the focused beam of electrons and the cross-sectional diameter of the features so that, when focused by the magnetic focusing lens, the cross-sectional diameter corresponding to the spot size of the x-rays approximately equals the cross-sectional diameter.","Note that the spot size of the x-rays may be defined by the target independently of a cross-sectional shape of the beam of electrons received by the target.","Moreover, the target may include multiple layers in which at least one of the layers includes apertures that reduce the initial spot size associated with the beam of electrons to the spot size of the x-rays output by the x-ray source. For example, the multiple layers may include a first layer having an atomic number less than a predefined value, a second layer that includes the apertures, and a third layer having an atomic number greater than the predefined value. Furthermore, the repositioning mechanism may selectively reposition the beam of electrons towards one or more of the apertures.","Additionally, the x-ray source may passively define the spot size based on the location of the beam of electrons on the surface of the target.","In some embodiments, the repositioning mechanism selectively varies a focus of the beam of electrons on the target based on the feedback parameter. Alternatively or additionally, the repositioning mechanism may adjust a cross-sectional shape of the beam of electrons based on the feedback parameter.","Another embodiment provides a system that includes the x-ray source.","Another embodiment provides a method for providing the feedback parameter. During this method, the beam of electrons is emitted from the electron source. Then, the beam of electrons is selectively repositioned to different locations on the surface of the target using the repositioning mechanism based on the feedback parameter, where the location of the beam of electrons on the surface of the target defines the spot size of x-rays output by the x-ray source. In response to receiving the beam of electrons at the target, the transmission source of x-rays is provided. Moreover, during operation of the x-ray source, the feedback parameter is provided using the beam-parameter detector based on the physical characteristic associated with the beam of electrons and\/or the x-rays output by the x-ray source.","Another embodiment provides an x-ray point projection microscope that includes the x-ray source.","Another embodiment provides a method for irradiating an object (such as food or a parcel) using the x-rays output by the x-ray source, thereby sterilizing the object.","Another embodiment provides a method for inspecting an object (such as an airplane, a train, a bridge, or in failure analysis of a machine that is susceptible to stress fractures or cracks) or reviewing features on the object (which may be identified via another technique) using the x-rays output by the x-ray source.","Another embodiment provides a method for imaging or irradiating at least a portion of an animal (such as a patient or a biological sample associated with the patient) using the x-rays output by the x-ray source, thereby performing a diagnostic test or implementing a medical therapy.","Another embodiment provides a method for writing patterns onto a semiconductor wafer, a photo-mask, a MEMS substrate, a substrate for an optical device, or another substrate material during a lithographic process using the x-rays output by the x-ray source.","Note that like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the drawings. Moreover, multiple instances of the same part are designated by a common prefix separated from an instance number by a dash.","Embodiments of an x-ray source and associated methods are described. During operation of the x-ray source, an electron source emits a beam of electrons. Moreover, a repositioning mechanism selectively repositions the beam of electrons on a surface of a target based on a feedback parameter, where a location of the beam of electrons on the surface of the target defines a spot size of x-rays output by the x-ray source. In response to receiving the beam of electrons, the target provides a transmission source of the x-rays. Furthermore, a beam-parameter detector provides the feedback parameter based on a physical characteristic associated with the beam of electrons and\/or the x-rays output by the x-ray source. This physical characteristic may include: at least a portion of an infrared spectrum or a visible spectrum emitted by the target when it receives the beam of electrons; secondary electrons emitted by the target based on a cross-sectional shape of the beam of electrons; an intensity of the x-rays output by the target; and\/or a current from the target.","This x-ray source may have a small spot size, which facilitates high-resolution x-ray imaging, for example, in an x-ray point projection microscope. Moreover, the tradeoffs between x-ray intensity and an operating life of the target in the x-ray source or the x-ray intensity and x-ray beam quality may be improved or eliminated in the x-ray source. In particular, the x-ray source may be operated at higher electron-beam currents and, thus, higher x-ray intensity without increasing the cross-sectional diameter of the spot size of the x-rays output by the x-ray source. Furthermore, the higher x-ray intensity may not decrease the operating life of the target. More generally, at a given electron-beam current, the target in the x-ray source may have a significantly increased operating life relative to those in existing x-ray sources. In addition, the x-ray source may have a compact size and reduced weight, which may enable additional applications of the x-ray source (such as a hand-held or a portable version of the x-ray source). Consequently, the x-ray source may offer improved performance, which may result in enhanced commercial success.","We now describe embodiments of the x-ray source.  presents a block diagram of an x-ray source . This x-ray source includes an electron source, such as an electron emitter , which emits a beam of electrons - during operation. Moreover, x-ray source  may include a magnetic focusing lens  (with a pole piece having a permanent magnet with a high saturation magnet flux density) that focuses beam of electrons - to a spot, having a spot size  (or, equivalently, an area), on a target . For example, magnetic focusing lens  may include one or more coils (such as a quadrapole or octopole lenses, and, more generally, multi-pole coils) that, at least in part, generates a magnetic field that changes the shape or position of the spot. Note that target  may include: tungsten, tantalum, molybdenum, rhenium, copper, beryllium, and\/or compounds that include two or more of these elements (which may include non-stoichiometric compounds). Furthermore, target  may be crystalline, polycrystalline or amorphous, and\/or may include additional materials.","Magnetic focusing lens  may include an immersion lens in which a peak in a magnitude of a magnetic field  associated with magnetic focusing lens  as a function of position  occurs proximate to a plane  of target . (Therefore, in some embodiments magnetic focusing lens  is proximate to target .) Moreover, in response to receiving beam of focused electrons -, target  provides a transmission source of x-rays . These x-rays may have a cross-sectional diameter corresponding to spot size .","X-ray source  may include a tube  that has a surface  that defines an interior of tube , and electron emitter  and target  may be included in the interior of tube . Moreover, tube  may be sealed and, at least during operation of x-ray source , optional internal vacuum-pumping elements, such as optional vacuum-generating mechanism  (such as an ion pump or sublimation pump, because these pumps do not exchange gas with the external environment), may reduce a pressure in the interior of tube  to less than atmospheric pressure, which is sometimes referred to as a \u2018reduced pressure.\u2019 (Note that a sealed tube typically is not actively pumped because it has a static vacuum, i.e., a sealed tube is pumped out during manufacturing and is sealed off from the external environment.) For example, the pressure in the interior of tube  may be less than or equal to high vacuum, i.e., approximately less than 10Torr (such as 10to 10Torr). Furthermore, target  may include a thin-film deposited on surface  of tube , such as a 1-2 \u03bcm thick metal or beryllium film. Note that such a thin film may allow a higher geometric magnification in applications such as an x-ray point projection microscope.","In some embodiments, x-ray source  includes a power-supply circuit  that provides power to electron emitter  and magnetic focusing lens . Additionally, there may be an anti-arcing material  (such as standoffs) that surrounds power-supply circuit . Power-supply circuit  may be integrated into high-voltage electronics, which may reduce the size and weight of x-ray source  by 4-5\u00d7 relative to existing x-ray sources, for example, to 1 ftand 20 pounds.","In some embodiments, x-ray source  includes an optional electrostatic lens  between electron emitter  and magnetic focusing lens  that collimates beam of electrons -. Alternatively or additionally, x-ray source  may optionally include another magnetic lens  configured to collimate beam of electrons -.","In an exemplary embodiment, a focal length of magnetic focusing lens  may be between 0.5 and 5 mm, spot size  may have a cross-sectional diameter between 10 nm and 100 \u03bcm, and\/or a focal length of optional electrostatic lens  may be between 0.5 and 50 mm. In some embodiments, spot size  may have a cross-sectional diameter between 10 nm and 10 \u03bcm or 1 and 5 \u03bcm. Thus, x-ray source  may be a nano-focus transmission x-ray source (i.e., spot size  may be much smaller than existing micro-focus x-ray sources). Moreover, electron emitter  may be a pointed source or a dispenser cathode.","Moreover, power-supply circuit  may output a voltage between 10 kV and 500 kV. In general, the power consumed by x-ray source  may be between 1 and 20 W, and the resulting electron current density may be between 1 and 50 A\/cm. For example, for a voltage of 100 kV and a beam current of 100 \u03bcA, the power consumption is 10 W. This may result in spot size  having a cross-sectional diameter of 10 \u03bcm. (More generally, the cross-sectional diameter corresponding to spot size  may vary as 1 \u03bcm\/W.) Additionally, tube  may be 4-5 inches long.","Note that electron emitter  may be selected based at least on two physical properties: it should emit electrons (and, more generally, charge carriers) when operated at the reduced pressure; and it should not evaporate or sublimate quickly under these conditions. The first physical property is determined by the work function of the electron-emitter material. The work function is the energy needed to liberate an electron from a surface. For a given material, the work function is typically a combination of bulk and surface properties. That is because many materials that are good emitters can easily become poor emitters depending on the vacuum conditions. Because the work function depends on the details of the very top monolayer of atoms on the surface of electron emitter , it can be difficult to predict, a priori, how a given material will behave. Note that the top layer of atoms can be the electron-emitter material, something adsorbed onto the surface, or an impurity from the bulk has segregated to the surface. Depending on the chemistry of the top few layers, these can either poison electron emission or improve it. As a practical matter, it is often necessary to measure the work function of an electron emitter under the conditions that it will be operated in order to know how well it will emit electrons.","The second of these physical properties determines the lifetime of electron emitter . If the bulk material evaporates quickly, as it does with tungsten or lanthanum hexaboride in an oxygen-containing environment (such as air or water vapor), then electron emitter  may either mechanically fail or may change its position within the optics of x-ray source . The former cannot be corrected. For example, if a tungsten wire in a so-called \u2018hairpin\u2019 configuration breaks, electron emitter  is dead. However, if electron emitter  has a so-called \u2018pointed-rod\u2019 configuration (or, more, generally, a \u2018pointed-source\u2019 configuration), then as the rod evaporates it grows shorter, changing the electric fields that extract the electrons. This change in geometry can be somewhat compensated by adjusting the extraction voltage. Lanthanum hexaboride and tungsten Schottky emitters fall into this latter category. Based on this discussion, to ensure a sufficient lifetime (such as up to 100,000 hours) at the reduced pressure, electron emitter  may have an evaporation or sublimation rate that is approximately the same as or less than that of tungsten or lanthanum hexaboride at the reduced pressure in the interior of tube .","Furthermore, a mounting or fixture (not shown) that holds electron emitter  may include a variety of construction materials. (For example, electron emitter  may be held by a carbon support structure, which in turn is mechanically and electrically coupled to molybdenum contacts. During operation of electron emitter , electrical current may be passed through the carbon support via the molybdenum contacts, thereby heating electron emitter .) In the present discussion, electron emitter  refers to a material or materials that emit the electrons for electron beam -. In some embodiments, electron emitter  is a ceramic, such as a carbide-based material that has a low oxidation rate even at high temperatures and atmospheric pressure. The oxides of many carbide-based materials are not typically volatile, and therefore the evaporation or sublimation of electron emitter  may be reduced or eliminated when at the reduced pressure during the operation of x-ray source . In particular, the oxide typically forms a protective layer over the carbide-based material, thereby inhibiting further oxidation (thus, the oxide may be self-limiting). Consequently, carbide-based materials usually exhibit \u2018parabolic kinetics,\u2019 in which the oxide is self-passivating and grows more and more slowing with time (for example, varying as the square root of time). Thus, in some embodiments electron emitter  has an evaporation or sublimation rate that is less than that of tungsten at the reduced pressure.","In some embodiments, electron emitter  is selected based on its melting temperature. This may allow electron emitter  to operate at a temperature and, thus, a higher beam current. Consequently, electron emitter , such as a ceramic or an oxide, may have a melting temperature greater than that of tungsten. For example, electron emitter  may include a bulk or thin-film outer coating of a refractory binary compound, such as: hafnium carbide (HfC), zirconium carbide, tantalum carbide, lanthanum hexaboride and\/or compounds that include two or more of these elements (which may include non-stoichiometric compounds, such as HfCor HfC). (However, in some embodiments, electron emitter  includes: hafnium dioxide, hafnium diboride, hafnium nitride, zirconium dioxide, zirconium diboride, tantalum diboride, tantalum nitride, rhenium, boron nitride, titanium carbide, niobium carbide, thorium dioxide, tungsten, lanthanum diboride, lanthanum hexaboride, a carbon nanotube, another allotrope of carbon, cerium hexaboride, and\/or compounds that include two or more of these compounds.) This electron-emitter material may be crystalline, polycrystalline or amorphous, and\/or may include additional materials, such as silicon dioxide, cerium oxide (which is sometimes referred to as \u2018ceria\u2019), etc., to improve mechanical and\/or electrical properties. If a thin-film outer coating is used, a wide variety of materials may be used for the substrate.","During the operation of x-ray source , electron emitter  may be heated above ambient temperature, may be cooled below ambient temperature or may be at approximately ambient temperature. Note that electron emitter  may operate in or close to a temperature-limited mode, as opposed to in a space-charge limited mode. Alternatively or additionally, electron emitter  may be a photo-emitter (in which electrons are emitted due to the photoelectric effect), a field emitter or a field-enhanced emitter, such as a Schottky emitter or a thermal field emitter.","A variety of techniques may be used to extend the operating life of the x-ray source and\/or to improve its performance, for example, by controlling spot size . One feedback approach is illustrated in , which presents a block diagram of an x-ray source . (Note that, while not shown, x-ray source  may include additional components, such as at least some of those shown in .) In particular, x-ray source  may include a repositioning mechanism  that selectively reposition beam of electrons  to different locations  on a surface  of target  based on a feedback parameter associated with operation of x-ray source  (which may be provided by an optional detector ). In some embodiments, locations  on surface  of target  may be predefined, such as a set of 100\u00d7100 locations in a 1 mmarea. Note that selectively repositioning beam of electrons  may extend an operating life of x-ray source  relative to another x-ray source in which the beam of electrons is approximately at a static location on the surface of the target during operation of the other x-ray source. In particular, selectively repositioning beam of electrons  to a fresh location on target  may eliminate burn out, thereby extending the operating life of the x-ray source up to 100,000 hours.","In some embodiments, the feedback parameter may be based on: an intensity of x-rays  output by x-ray source ; a position of x-rays  output by x-ray source ; a cross-sectional shape of x-rays  output by x-ray source ; and\/or a spot size of x-rays  out put by x-ray source . For example, if the intensity of x-rays  decreases (such as by 5, 10, 25 or 50%), beam of electrons  may be repositioned to a different location on surface .","Alternatively or additionally, the feedback parameter may include: a user input that specifies a different location on surface  of target  or that indicates a change in the location on surface  of target ; an elapsed time, during operation of x-ray source , since the location on surface  of target  was last changed; when the x-ray source is transitioned from a low-power mode to an operating mode (i.e., the location on surface  may be moved each time x-ray source  is turned on); and\/or a cumulative evaporation of target  at one or more locations on surface  of target  based on an energy density of beam of electrons  and the elapsed time, during operation of x-ray source , since the position of beam of electrons  on surface  of target  was last changed. For example, beam of electrons  may be moved every hour during operation of x-ray source . Note that optional control logic  may determine information (such an elapsed time) that is used by repositioning mechanism .","Another feedback approach is illustrated in , presents a block diagram of an x-ray source . (Note that, while not shown, x-ray source  may include additional components, such as at least some of those shown in .) In this x-ray source, a repositioning mechanism  selectively repositions beam of electrons  on a surface  of a target  based on a feedback parameter, where a location  of beam of electrons  on surface  of target  defines a spot size  of x-rays  output by x-ray source . Then, in response to receiving beam of electrons , target  provides a transmission source of x-rays . Furthermore, a beam-parameter detector  provides the feedback parameter during operation of x-ray source  based on a physical characteristic associated with beam of electrons  and\/or the x-rays  output by x-ray source .","Note that beam-parameter detector  may include: an optical detector, a secondary electron detector, a backscatter electron detector, an x-ray detector, and\/or a current detector. Moreover, the physical characteristic may include: at least a portion of an infrared spectrum or a visible spectrum emitted by target  when it receives beam of electrons ; secondary electrons emitted by target  based on a cross-sectional shape of beam of electrons ; an intensity of x-rays  output by target ; and\/or a current from target .","In some embodiments, repositioning mechanism  scans beam of electrons  over target , where beam-parameter detector  includes an image sensor and the physical characteristic includes an image of target . For example, as described further below with reference to , the image sensor may image features on target  and, at a given time, repositioning mechanism  may approximately align beam of electrons  with a given one of the features. Alternatively or additionally, repositioning mechanism  may selectively vary a focus of beam of electrons  on target  based on the feedback parameter (thus, x-ray source  may auto-focus beam of electrons ) and\/or may adjust a cross-sectional shape of beam of electrons  based on the feedback parameter. In some embodiments, the adjustments may be based on predefined values, such as focus, deflection and\/or stigmator corrections, that are stored in a data structure (for example, in a look-up table).","Spot size  of x-rays  may be defined by target  independently of a cross-sectional shape of beam of electrons  received by target . Alternatively or additionally, x-ray source  may passively define spot size  based on location  of beam of electrons  on surface  of target . These embodiments are illustrated in , which presents a block diagram illustrating a target  in x-ray source  ().","In particular, target  may include features  having one or more cross-sectional diameters , where features  facilitate focusing beam of electrons  to spot size  in . For example, repositioning mechanism  () may selectively reposition beam of electrons  () towards one or more of features  based on a user input and\/or the feedback parameter. As shown in , which presents side views of the target, features  may include holes , defined by associated edges , in target -. These holes may be, at least in part, filled with an optional material  (such as a refractory material or gold) that is other than a material of target - surrounding holes . Moreover, at least some of holes  may have different cross-sectional diameters  () and\/or different thicknesses  (which may be used for different beam energies), thereby facilitating different spot sizes and different intensities of x-rays  output by x-ray source  depending on location  of beam of electrons  on surface  in .","In some embodiments, features  include protrusions  fabricated on the surface of target -. These protrusions may include optional material  (such as a refractory material or gold), which is other than the material of target - surrounding protrusions . Moreover, at least some of protrusions  may have different cross-sectional diameters  and\/or different thicknesses  (which may be used for different beam energies), thereby facilitating different spot sizes and different intensities of the x-rays  output by x-ray source  depending on location  of beam of electrons  on surface  in .","Moreover, target - may include multiple layers  in which at least one of the layers (such as layer -) includes apertures  that reduce the initial spot size associated with beam of electrons  to spot size  of x-rays  output by x-ray source  in . For example, multiple layers  may include a layer - having an atomic number less than a predefined value (such as a 300 \u03bcm thick layer of diamond), a layer - that includes apertures , and a layer - having an atomic number greater than the predefined value (such as a 2 \u03bcm thick layer of tungsten). Furthermore, repositioning mechanism  () may selectively reposition beam of electrons  () towards one or more of apertures , thereby creating a well-defined beam of x-rays irrespective of the shape of beam of electrons .","Note that, in an exemplary embodiment, the cross-sectional diameter of one or more of features  is approximately 1 \u03bcm.","Referring back to , in some embodiments, x-ray source  includes an optional magnetic focusing lens  that focuses beam of electrons  to a spot, having the initial spot size, on target . In these embodiments, the feedback parameter may correspond to a difference between a cross-sectional diameter corresponding to the initial spot size of beam of electrons  and one or more cross-sectional diameter(s)  () of features  () so that, when focused by optional magnetic focusing lens , the cross-sectional diameter corresponding to the spot size  of x-rays  approximately equals at least one of the cross-sectional diameter(s)  (). Thus, during an auto-focus technique, beam of electrons  may be co-centrically aligned with one of features  (), and beam of electrons  may be focused until the cross-sectional diameter corresponding to spot size  approximately equals the cross-sectional diameter of this feature. However, in some embodiments, the cross-sectional diameter corresponding to spot size  is greater than the cross-sectional diameter of the feature, such as a 10 \u03bcm cross-sectional diameter of spot size  and a 1 \u03bcm cross-sectional diameter of the feature. This may allow an increased beam current to be used in the x-ray source.","We now describe embodiments of the system.  presents a block diagram of a system  that includes an x-ray source , which may be one of the preceding embodiments of the x-ray source. For example, system  may be an x-ray point projection microscope and\/or an x-ray imaging microscope. In the case of the x-ray point projection microscope, the resolution is, at least in part, determined by the spot size of the x-rays produced by x-ray source . In this regard, the reduced spot size associated with the preceding embodiments of the x-ray source may increase the resolution of the x-ray point projection microscope.","Moreover, x-ray source  may be used in conjunction with another micro-analysis technique, such as that provided at least in part by optional micro-analysis mechanism  (which may be a source, a detector and\/or an analyzer), and which may share some of the same components as x-ray source  (such as control logic). For example, the other micro-analysis technique may include: energy dispersive x-ray analysis, optical imaging, optical microscopy, optical fluorescence imaging or spectroscopy, wavelength dispersive spectroscopy, x-ray diffraction analysis, x-ray fluorescence, electron microscopy and\/or electron-beam backscattered diffraction. In some embodiments the source for the other micro-analysis technique may involve electron beam - (), such as in: a scanning electron microscope (SEM), a transmission electron microscope (TEM), a scanning-transmission electron microscope (STEM), a low-energy electron microscope (LEEM), a secondary emission electron microscopes (SEEM), a mirror-electron microscope (MEM), and\/or a variation on these types of microscopes.","While the present disclosure has been described in connection with specific embodiments, the claims are not limited to what is shown. Consequently, x-ray source  (), x-ray source  (), x-ray source  (), target  () and\/or system  may include fewer components or additional components. For example, the x-ray source may include multiple electron emitters, which may be implemented on an integrated circuit. Moreover, the x-ray source may include one or more optional electro-optical (EO) mechanism(s), which may be external to tube  (), and which may scan, deflect, focus and\/or stigmate the electron beam, such as: a magnetic deflection mechanism, a stigmator, a deflector and\/or an alignment coil. Additionally, magnetic focusing lens  in  may combine a permanent magnetic lens and a \u2018tuning coil\u2019 to adjust the magnetic field strength to focus beam of electrons - into beam of electrons -, and then onto target . This permanent magnet may supply at least 50% of the strength of the magnetic focusing field, thereby reducing the need for cooling (or temperature stabilizing) magnetic focusing lens . In turn, this may reduce the size of magnetic focusing lens , and may reduce the requirements for power-supply circuit .","While the preceding embodiments illustrated the x-ray source using a sealed tube, in other embodiments the tube is not sealed off from the external environment. In these embodiments and external vacuum-pumping mechanism (e.g., a multi-stage pump, a turbo-molecular pump, a diffusion pump, an ion pump, a cryopump, a sublimation pump and\/or a getter pump) may be used to obtain a suitable vacuum at least during operation of the x-ray source.","Furthermore, two or more components may be combined into a single component and\/or a position of one or more components may be changed. For example, components in these embodiments, such as beam-parameter detector  in , may be included in or external to tube  ().","In the preceding embodiments, some components are shown directly connected to one another, while others are shown connected via intermediate components. In each instance the method of interconnection, or \u2018coupling,\u2019 establishes some desired electrical or mechanical functionality between two or more components in these devices. Such coupling may often be accomplished using a number of configurations, as will be understood by those of skill in the art, including adding additional intervening components and\/or removing intervening components.","In some embodiments, functionality in these circuits, components and devices is implemented in hardware and\/or in software as is known in the art. For example, some or all of the functionality of these embodiments may be implemented in one or more: application-specific integrated circuit (ASICs), field-programmable gate array (FPGAs), and\/or one or more digital signal processors (DSPs). Additionally, a portion of the software (such as core functionality in an embedded operating system that prevents damage to the x-ray source) may be closed to users other than a manufacturer or supplier of the x-ray source, while another portion of the software (such as an application programming interface) may be \u2018open\u2019 to these users. In this way, an open-source community may generate user applications, which are stored on one or more computer-readable media, and which execute on or in conjunction with the x-ray source.","Furthermore, circuits in the preceding embodiments may be implemented using bipolar, PMOS and\/or NMOS gates or transistors, and signals in these embodiments may include digital signals that have approximately discrete values and\/or analog signals that have continuous values. Additionally, the circuits may be single-ended or differential, and\/or may be multiplexed or use multiple connections.","We now describe embodiments of the method.  presents a flow diagram of a method  for providing a transmission source of x-rays, which may be performed by one of the preceding embodiments of the x-ray source. During this method, the beam of electrons is emitted from the electron source (operation ). Then, using the magnetic focusing lens, the beam of electrons is focused to the spot, having the spot size, on the target (operation ), where the magnetic focusing lens includes the immersion lens in which the peak in the magnitude of the magnetic field associated with the magnetic focusing lens occurs proximate to the plane of the target. Moreover, in response to receiving the beam of focused electrons at the target, the transmission source of x-rays is provided (operation ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","612","614"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","610","612","614","810"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","610","910","614","912"]},"In some embodiments, methods  (),  (),  () and\/or  include additional or fewer operations. Moreover, the order of the operations may be changed and\/or two or more operations may be combined into a single operation.","Thus, the embodiments of the x-ray source may facilitate a wide variety of uses and applications. For example, the x-rays output by the preceding embodiments of the x-ray source may be used to irradiate an object, such as food or a parcel (or, more generally, an object that is shipped or mailed), thereby sterilizing the object, i.e., eliminating or reducing the presence of pathogens (such as bacteria or instances of a virus). Alternatively or additionally, the x-rays output by the preceding embodiments of the x-ray source may be used to inspect an object (such as an airplane, a train, a bridge, or in failure analysis of a machine that is susceptible to stress fractures or cracks) or to review features on the object (which may be identified via another technique). For example, the x-rays may be used to inspect or perform failure analysis on semiconductor dies or chips that include integrated circuits, as well as packages that include multiple semiconductor dies.","In some embodiments, the x-rays output by the preceding embodiments of the x-ray source is used to image or irradiate at least a portion of an animal (such as a patient or a biological sample associated with the patient), thereby performing a diagnostic test or implementing a medical therapy. For example, the x-rays may be used to performing an imaging study. In some embodiments, results of these measurements may be analyzed by software and\/or hardware that is in or associated with the x-ray source to assist a healthcare provider (such as a physician). More generally, the x-ray source may be used to study biological samples, which may include wet biologic or in-vivo samples.","In some embodiments, the x-rays output by the preceding embodiments of the x-ray source is used to write patterns onto: a semiconductor wafer (such as silicon), a photo-mask, a MEMS substrate, a substrate for an optical device, and\/or another substrate material during a lithographic process. For example, the photo-mask may include: a chromium-on-glass photo-mask, an alternating phase-shifting photo-mask, an attenuating phase-shifting photo-mask, a reflective photo-mask, and\/or a multiple-exposure photo-mask (i.e., those where patterns printed using two or more photo-masks are combined to produce a desired pattern). Thus, the x-rays may be used to fabricate or repair the photo-mask. Furthermore, the lithographic process may include a direct-write lithographic process or a photo-lithographic process, including those with positive or negative photo-resist materials.","While the preceding examples illustrate several of the applications of the embodiments of the x-ray source, there are many additional applications, including in: the cosmetic industry, forensics, the pharmaceutical industry, biomedical applications, paper manufacturing, chemical manufacturing, steel manufacturing, the food industry, semiconductor fabrication, optics or photonics, and\/or MEMS manufacturing and inspection. For example, the x-ray source may be integrated into process equipment, such as semiconductor fabrication equipment, including but not limited to: etching and deposition systems and\/or metrology and inspection equipment. Alternatively or additionally, the x-ray source may be integrated with systems that utilize statistical process control (SPC) or factory automation. Furthermore, the improved resolution, performance and\/or operating life of the preceding embodiments of the x-ray source may result in increased sales to businesses and in education, such as at schools.","The foregoing description is intended to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the disclosure, and is provided in the context of a particular application and its requirements. Moreover, the foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present disclosure have been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the forms disclosed. Accordingly, many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art, and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Additionally, the discussion of the preceding embodiments is not intended to limit the present disclosure. Thus, the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown, but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. Note that only those claims specifically reciting \u201cmeans for\u201d or \u201cstep for\u201d should be construed in the manner required under the sixth paragraph of 35 U.S.C. \u00a7112."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
