---
title: Automatic expiration of messages communicated to an end user communication device
abstract: An exemplary method is implemented by an electronic device for transmitting a data message to at least a first end-user communication device. Data that forms a user message for conveyance to a first end-user communication device and a first value are received under the control of an enhanced services application program. A digital packet is formed with a header segment and a user data segment. The user data segment is formed under the control of the enhanced services application program and contains a first command and the user message, the first command representing that the user message is to be automatically deleted by the recipient first end-user communication device. The first command includes the first value that represents how long until the user message will be automatically deleted by the first end-user communication device. The digital packet is transmitted to the first end-user communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09331972&OS=09331972&RS=09331972
owner: Loment, Inc.
number: 09331972
owner_city: Naperville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110809
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13\/134,591 filed Jun. 10, 2011 entitled PRIORITY OF OUTBOUND MESSAGES COMMUNICATED AMONG END USER COMMUNICATION DEVICES which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13\/068,340 filed May 9, 2011, and entitled MANAGEMENT FOR INFORMATION COMMUNICATED AMONG END USER COMMUNICATION DEVICES, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13\/065,839 filed Mar. 31, 2011, and entitled \u201cUBIQUITOUS USER CONTROL FOR INFORMATION COMMUNICATED AMONG END USER COMMUNICATION DEVICES\u201d.","This invention relates to communications to end user communication devices and more specifically to control by the message originator of the automatic expiration, i.e. deletion, of received messages by an end user communication device, especially but not limited to, wireless end user communication devices, which may be made by different manufacturers and\/or have different operating systems.","Wireless communication devices are now prevalent throughout all developed countries of the world. Although cellular telephones are currently the most widespread, other types of wireless communication devices include personal digital assistants, laptop computers with Wi-Fi and\/or telecommunication carrier communication support, and various types of \u201cpads\u201d that provide visual displays that are larger than conventional cellular telephones but typically smaller than the displays of a laptop computer. Wireless voice communications between mobile devices utilizing different types of communication protocols, e.g. analog, TDMA, CDMA, VOIP, etc., are supported by different telecommunication carriers which provide appropriate communication protocol interfaces\/gateways to facilitate voice communications between mobile units using different communication protocols.","Various types of transport layer communication protocols are supported by wireless communication devices. For example, text messaging, short messaging service (SMS), multimedia messaging service (MMS), email such as by simple mail transfer protocol (SMTP), and instant messaging utilizing hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) are available. Each type service is supported by a transport layer communication protocol that is part of the telecommunication signaling structure associated with the transport of user communications and the communication of telecommunication infrastructure commands and signals. In order to prevent network congestion and\/or overload, telecommunication networks may utilize a time to live (TTL) parameter for messages being transmitted through the network. The TTL parameter establishes a maximum time that a message is allowed to remain active in the network pending delivery. This permits the network to discard messages after the TTL time expires in order to prevent the network from being congested with an accumulating number of messages that cannot be delivered. The TTL parameter is only used within the transport network and has no impact on messages that are delivered to users.","Increasingly businesses and advertisers are utilizing data messages as a way to reach potential customers as well as communicate with existing customers. There are circumstances where such a data message may only be relevant for a particular time interval. For example, a business may send data messages to potential customers for a particular promotion where the promotion is only valid for a predetermined time, e.g. an airline may send data messages on a Tuesday to potential customers offering a special low-fare for flights between selected cities on the following Saturday and Sunday. For a potential customer who, for whatever reason, first reads such a data message on the following Monday, the promotional offer has expired. Thus, the very act of reading this data message is a waste of time, and may constitute an irritant. There exists a need to be able to originate data messages with the ability to limit how long the delivered messages may be accessed, e.g. displayed, on the recipient's communication device.","It is an object of this embodiment of the present invention to satisfy a need to provide the originator of messages with improved control over messages even after receipt of the messages by the recipient's device.","In accord with an embodiment of the present invention, an exemplary method is implemented by an electronic device for transmitting a data message to at least a first end-user communication device. Data that forms a user message for conveyance to a first end-user communication device and a first value are received under the control of an enhanced services application program. A digital packet is formed with a header segment and a user data segment. The user data segment is formed under the control of the enhanced services application program and contains a first command and the user message, the first command representing that the user message is to be automatically deleted by the recipient first end-user communication device. The first command includes the first value that represents how long until the user message will be automatically deleted by the first end-user communication device. The digital packet is transmitted to the first end-user communication device.","An embodiment of the present invention includes the electronic communication device that executes this method.","An embodiment of the present invention also includes a computer program product, comprising a computer usable tangible medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein, where the computer readable program code is adapted to be executed to implement this method.","Embodiments of the present invention further include all the steps, elements and features recited in the claims.","Referring to , wireless communication systems  and  support communications with a plurality of wireless mobile devices including exemplary wireless mobile devices (units)  and , respectively. The communication system  includes a home location register (HLR)  that serves as an operations and administration center for registered wireless mobile devices and includes information of the current location of the respective mobile devices. A visitor location register (VLR)  provides temporary registration and location services for wireless mobile devices located in a communication system that is not the home system for the mobile device. A short messaging service center (SMSC)  functions as a server for the transmission and reception of SMS messages for wireless mobile devices supported by communication system . A multimedia service center (MMSC)  provides a similar function to SMSC  for the transmission and reception of multimedia information for wireless mobile devices supported by communication system . These nodes\/elements perform their known functions as part of the infrastructure that supports wireless mobile communications. A mobile switching center (MSC)  provides switching for voice and data communications associated with the supported wireless mobile devices. A plurality of radio access nodes (RANs)  and  provide a wireless communications link between the system  and the supported wireless mobile units. Each RAN is connected to the MSC  wherein wireless messages received from a mobile unit by a RAN are transferred to MSC  for further routing, and messages to be delivered to a mobile unit are transferred from the MSC  to a RAN where such messages are then wirelessly transmitted by the RAN to the destination mobile unit. The elements of communication system  are the same as elements in communication system  and provide the same functionality for the respective supported mobile units. Hence, the elements of communication system  need not be described in detail.","A communication network  provides a communication link between the MSCs of systems  and . Communications with an exemplary SMSC\/HTTP\/IMS server  is also supported by network , where HTTP means hypertext transfer protocol and IMS means Internet map server. A mobile services server  is supported by server  and facilitates enhanced capabilities for wireless mobile units in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. For example, wireless mobile units may access and download an application program from server  that can be installed and operate on the wireless mobile unit to provide enhanced functionality and control of user data in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. This will be described in greater detail below. Another end user communication device , which may comprise a computer or other device, is connected to the communication network  by other than a wireless communication link, e.g. a wire internet link through an IP service provider.","A computer workstation  is coupled via server  to the communication network . A business or other entity that operates workstation  may utilize it to generate a plurality of data messages, e.g. SMS messages, emails, etc., such as to potential or existing customers. Some of the data messages originated from workstation  may only be relevant to the recipient if read during a predetermined time interval or before the expiration of a predetermined date\/time. As will be explained in more detail below, data messages can include an associated command inserted by the originator which will cause the corresponding message to be automatically deleted on the recipient's communication device upon the expiration of the predetermined time interval or predetermined date\/time. A workstation or other computing device, as well as an end-user device, can originate data messages sent to recipient end-user devices of potential customers with the advantages as described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["202","128","134","132","204","206","208","210","206","204","210","208","204","212","214","216","204","202","128","134","132"]},"Where device  represents a wireless mobile unit, a radio frequency receiver , transmitter  and an antenna  are also present and used for wireless communications between the unit and supporting RANs. The I\/O module  supports communications with supporting external peripherals, e.g. USB communications with a peripheral. When device  represents a wireless mobile unit, the application program controlling the microprocessor  is supported by an operating system and includes an enhanced services (ES) application program such as downloaded from server  and installed in the wireless unit. In this case, the user will be the person using the wireless mobile unit. The ES application program provides the wireless mobile unit with functions as explained below.","Where device  represents the mobile services server  (where elements ,  and  are absent), the I\/O module  supports communications with supporting external nodes, e.g. server  or other nodes. In this case, the application program controlling the microprocessor  is supported by an operating system and includes a services support (SS) application program which supports the downloading, upon a request from a wireless unit, the ES application program from server  to the requesting wireless mobile unit. In this case, the user will be an administrator who maintains the operation of the server. The SS application supports the registration of wireless mobile units, and may also support the storage of user data for use in backup and restore functions with the respective wireless mobile units.","Where device  represents the workstation  (where elements ,  and  are absent), the I\/O module  supports communications with supporting external nodes, e.g. server  or other nodes. In this case, the application program controlling the microprocessor  is supported by an operating system and includes the ES application program that supports the origination of SMS, email, or other data messages to be sent to wireless mobile units or other nodes using the same format as described below. In this case, the user will be an administrator who maintains and controls the operation of the workstation for the benefit of an entity\/company, e.g. where the entity\/company desires to send data messages with promotional offers to devices, including wireless mobile devices, of potential customers. The workstation with the ES application program functions substantially similarly regarding the origination, transmission, reception and processing of ES data messages as described below for wireless mobile devices that employ the ES application program. Hence, the below described message format, operation and advantages of the features of the ES application program for wireless mobile devices applies for the workstation utilizing the ES application program, and will not be described again.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","302","304","306","302","306","306","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","306","402","402","402","306","402","402","402"]},"In the exemplary embodiment, field  of the data segment  consists of four bytes which identify one of a plurality of message types in accordance with predetermined message types stored in the SS application program. In this example, field  contains the label \u201c\/\/P:\u201d wherein the characters \/\/ and : form part of the label, and the \u201cP\u201d identifies a specific type of message, i.e. a Peanut message type. In this exemplary embodiment, a Peanut message type identifies the message as being a person-to-person communication. Different characters in place of the \u201cP\u201d in this field can be used to identify other message types where each message type is associated with different subject matter, e.g. email, banking, insurance, coupons, games, health care, etc. Field  consists of one byte identifying the format or coding structure. In this example, field  may have valid values of ,  or  wherein  indicates a control message,  indicates a normal user message utilizing 7 bit coding, and  indicates a normal user message utilizing the Unicode format. Field  consists of one byte having a value where this value identifies the priority of the associated message assigned by the message originator that is intended to alert the recipient of the intended priority, e.g. urgency, of acting on and\/or responding to the message. As will be explained, this value may also control additional aspects, e.g. encryption\/decryption. Field  consists of one byte, i.e. a command byte, identifying the length of message parameter values and may have valid values of -. The value of field  specifies the number of sequential bytes that are part of a control portion of the data segment, i.e. bytes before the user input data begins. Field  consists of a number of bytes equal to the value in field , e.g. -, and contains name value pairs as will explained in the below examples. Field  contains the user input information desired to be conveyed to another party. If the length of the user input information exceeds the number of bytes available in field  of one data segment, the user input information can be parsed and transmitted as multiple fragments sent in a series of SMS packets containing corresponding data segments  with the parsed user information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["402","0","19","0","3","402","1","4","0","6","0","5","5","7","16"]},"Example 2 of  is a data segment similar to example 1 in that it contains a \u201cWIPEOUT\u201d command that will be interpreted by the ES application program on the recipient wireless mobile unit as a request to completely wipe out user data stored through the Peanut application operating under the ES application program. That is, all messages, contacts, templates and other user data stored by the Peanut application will be deleted. These first and second examples are intended to be merely representative of a variety of commands that can be utilized, e.g. \u201cACTIVATE\u201d to activate a Peanut application, \u201cCHANGEPIN <xxxx>\u201d to permit the changing of a personal invitation number or password to the value xxxx contained in the control message, etc.","Example 3 of  illustrates a different type of Peanut application data segment in which the  value in byte  indicates that the data segment is a normal message type. The  value in byte  indicates that no message parameter values are specified. The value  in byte  is used to convey the priority selected by the message originator in accord with . This message will be displayed on the screen of the recipient's communication device with a gray background, that is, the message of alphanumeric characters is displayed on a segment of the recipient's screen in which the background color of the segment is gray. The gray background color is intended to convey to the recipient that this is a normal communication and that a response is not expected by the originator. A predefined group of background colors with corresponding message priorities is made known to all end-users so that the originator of a message can specify a corresponding message priority that will be conveyed in accordance with the present invention to the recipient. The display of different background colors for the alphanumeric characters of the message is intended as exemplary of a variety of visual indicia that could be displayed on the screen of the destination device to denote message priorities. For example, the color of the alphanumeric characters themselves, the color of a portion of the screen segment displaying a message, the color of a separate field or distinctive symbol displayed adjacent the message text\/field, type or style of the alphanumeric characters, shading associated with the alphanumeric characters and\/or background, or other visually distinctive appearances with corresponding priority definitions can be utilized to convey different priorities for a message. It is preferred that the priority indicia always be included when the corresponding message is displayed, e.g. it will be displayed with saved messages, messages restored from backup storage, messages transferred to another user device, messages as displayed on the originating device, etc. Also, a larger number of types of priorities can be used to convey finer distinctions of originator expectations, e.g. orange color=\u201curgent, confirm message receipt as soon as possible\u201d; purple color=\u201cnormal message priority, reply within X hours\/days\u201d, etc. As among a group of users, the group members are free to agree that the available suggested priority categories (colors) will have an understood meaning that differs from the standard suggested meaning. The Peanut application on the receiving wireless mobile unit will interpret this data segment as carrying a message, \u201cHELLO FM MIKE\u201d, to be displayed to the user against a gray color background indicating a normal communication to which the originator does not expect a reply communication.","Example 4 of  carries the same message to be conveyed to the user as in example 3. Again, the  value in byte  indicates that the data segment is a normal message type. However, the  value in byte  indicates that 4 bytes starting at byte location  carry control information that precedes the user message. In this example, bytes - contain \u201cE006\u201d, where the E in byte , i.e. a command identification character, indicates that an expiration of the subject message is to be executed (message is to be automatically deleted),  in byte  indicates expiration in zero days,  in byte  indicates expiration in zero hours, and the  in byte  indicates expiration in six minutes. That is, upon the receipt of this data segment by the Peanut application on the destination wireless mobile unit, the subject message, \u201cHELLO FM MIKE\u201d, will be conveyed to the user, but all instances of this message will be automatically deleted from recipient mobile unit on the expiration of six minutes. The value  in byte  indicates the message will be displayed with a gray background conveying a normal communication in which a reply communication by the recipient is not expected.","Example 5 shows an illustrative Peanut application data segment which is similar to example 4 in that the value in byte  is not zero indicating that a command in addition to the user messages contained in the data segment. In this example, the  in byte  indicates that seven bytes starting with byte  are associated with command information and precede the beginning of the user data to be conveyed. The L in byte  will be interpreted as signifying that the subject data segment is a long message, i.e. the subject user message has too many characters to be contained in only one data segment, thereby requiring fragmentation of the user message into a plurality of message fragments that will be transmitted in a number of data segments. The four bytes, bytes -, collectively comprise a value used to identify each of the required data segments needed to complete the long message. In this example, this value is \u201c0001\u201d. The next byte, byte , represents the total number of data segments required to complete the long message. In this example, byte  has a value of  indicating that two data segments are required to complete the single long message. Byte  represents the current fragment number of the subject data segment. In this example, byte  has a value of  indicating that this is the first data segment fragment of the long message in the long message fragments identified as \u201c0001\u201d. The first character of the actual user message is in byte  with the remaining bytes in the subject data segment carrying further portions of a first message fragment. Example 6 shows the second and last message fragment that completes the long message identified by \u201c0001\u201d. Byte  of example 6 contains a value of  indicating that it is the second in a message fragment series. It is also the last of the message fragment series since byte  indicates that the long message is contained in two message fragments. Byte  in example 6 contains the first character of user data in this data segment, but corresponds to the next character in the long user message that follows the last character of the user message contained in the preceding data segment represented by example 5. The value  in byte  in examples 5 and 6 causes the message characters to be displayed against a green screen background on the recipient's device which is intended to convey a normal communication in which a response is expected by the originator.","Example 7 illustrates a data segment that contains two commands. The value  in byte  indicates that 12 bytes starting with byte  are associated with commands. As explained in example 4, the values \u201cE005\u201d in bytes - indicate a message expiration upon five minutes from the receipt by the Peanut application. The value  in byte  serves as a predetermined separation character used to separate commands. Similar to example 6, the L in byte , which is the first field\/character at the beginning of a command string, identifies this data segment as a long message. The bytes - serve to identify the fragments in series of data segments. Byte  has a value of  indicating that there are a total of two fragments in the long message series and byte  with a value of  indicates that this is the first fragment in the series. The first portion of the actual user message follows beginning at byte .","A similar message could be a data message generated from workstation  by a company or advertising entity where the data message represents a promotional offer that expires in a predetermined time, e.g. 3 days represented by \u201cE300\u201d for 3 days, 0 hours and 0 minutes. The expiration time can be measured from the date\/time the message is sent or delivered or when it is first opened\/read by the recipient. Alternatively, the expiration command can set a future date\/time at which the expiration\/deletion is to occur. For example, a restaurant might generate a \u201cbuy 1, get 1 free\u201d promotional offer for the purchase of food that is transmitted to a plurality of potential customers by data messages, e.g. SMS messages. If the promotional offer is only valid for 3 days, the message originator may include an associated message expiration command with the transmission of the original data message containing the promotional offer. Depending on the nature and type of the promotional offer, the message expiration time may be set prior to, concurrent with or subsequent to the promotional offer time period. Where acceptance of a promotional offer requires a condition precedent, e.g. reservations required to be made 24 hours in advance, the expiration time may be set accordingly to match the time frame in which the potential customer must act. In this example the expiration time may be set to 2 days, i.e. 1 day ahead of the 3 day time interval since the potential customer must act (make reservation) within 2 days in order to take advantage of the offer. In many circumstances where the original promotional offer does not require a condition precedent, the expiration time may be set to match the time in which the promotional offer is valid, i.e. 3 days in this example. There may be circumstances in which the originator may desire that the potential customer at least learn of the promotional offer even if the limited time promotional offer has expired, e.g. the originator may believe that the positive attributes associated by the potential customer with the originator upon learning of the expired offer will more than offset the inconvenience of reading a data message for an offer is no longer valid. In this example, the restaurant extending the 3 day offers may determine that it is better, on balance, for the potential customers to be able to learn of the offer even 1 day after the expiration of the offer, and hence may set the expiration time associated with the original data message to 4 days.","In the above examples regarding promotional offers, the offers may be valid until a specified date\/time. Therefore, in order to provide a corresponding data message expiration command, it may be desirable to utilize an expiration command based on a set date\/time, as opposed to a time interval. Thus, if the recipient of such a data message is not aware of it or has not opened it within the date\/time set by the expiration command, the message will be automatically deleted. This eliminates the time required for the recipient to later read the message for which the promotional period has already expired. Even in cases where the recipient has read the data message containing the time-limited promotional offer or even accepted the offer, the use of automatic expiration provides a convenient means for trash collection, i.e. the deletion of unwanted information from computer memory, and in this case, the automatic deletion of unwanted messages from memory.","Example 8 represents the second fragment of the long message where the first fragment was described in example 7. It will be noted that this data segment contains only a single command associated with the long message fragmentation. That is, the time expiration contained as a first command in the first message fragment is not repeated. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a time expiration command communicated in a first message fragment will automatically be effective for all succeeding fragments of the same long message. Thus, the entirety of the perceived long message will be subject to the time expiration. In this example, the value  in byte  indicates a command string of seven characters in which: L in byte  identifies this segment as a long message type, \u201c0002\u201d in bytes - identifies the long message fragment series,  in byte  indicates that the long message consists of two message segments, and the  in byte  indicates that this is the second fragment in the series of the identified long message, and since there are only two message fragments in this long message, the  in byte  also indicates that this is the last received fragment in the series. The remaining portion of the user message begins with byte  and continues to the conclusion of the user message is contained in this message fragment. The value  in byte  in examples 7 and 8 will cause the message characters to be displayed on the recipient's screen segment against a red background which is intended by the originator to convey an emergency message requiring immediate attention.","When a message sent from an originator's device using a native message client is received and processed by the destination device using the Peanut ES application, the message is displayed on the destination device's screen with a white background, denoting that this message was received as a public unsecured communication. Previously received messages are stored by the respective ES applications and always displayed with the corresponding background color of its associated priority as determined by byte  of the respective message. Preferably, messages being composed and stored by an ES application on an origination device are also displayed on the screen of the origination device by the ES application with the background color selected by the user for the priority of the respective message.","In the above examples of , all of the characters in the various byte positions are shown in a clear text format. In order to preserve security during the transmission of such messages, it is preferred that the majority of each message be sent in an encrypted format. For example, all bytes after byte  will preferably be transmitted utilizing a form of encryption. Those skilled in the art will understand that the use of such encryption requires that the receiving wireless mobile device be capable of decrypting the received encrypted characters thus transforming each received message into a corresponding clear text format as illustrated in accordance with .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["602","604","606","606","608","610","610","608","610","612"]},"A YES determination by step  or a YES determination by step  results in the user request being processed as indicated by step . Processing of the request may include parsing the received request to determine included commands and\/or user message components. Such processing is substantially the same as described later with regard to processing of received messages by wireless mobile unit. In step , the request is fulfilled. The fulfilling or action taken in response to the request will vary depending upon the nature of the request itself. The action taken may be applicable to the wireless mobile unit that originated the request or to a different wireless mobile unit. For example, a BACKUP request will cause the uploading and storage of user data contained on the requesting mobile unit to the services server. A RESTORE request will cause the stored user data previously obtained during a BACKUP request to be downloaded and installed on the requesting local unit from the services server. However, other commands may initiate actions to be taken at a wireless mobile unit that is not the requesting mobile unit. For example, a DEACTIVATE request received by the services server from a first mobile unit will cause another wireless mobile unit, having an address specified in the request, to be deactivated. Such a request requires user authentication to ensure that the user making the request is the registered owner of the device to which the deactivation request is directed. The process terminates at END .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["702","704","705","706","708","704","706","708","704","706","708","705","706","708","706","708","708"]},"Native communication program  supports a plurality of files and\/or records , e.g. inbox, outbox, archived data, contacts, etc. The native communication program refers to the communication program originally supplied by the manufacturer or service provider upon the initial acquisition of a wireless mobile unit by a user. The enhanced services communication program  is an application program that is typically installed by the user such as by downloading it from the services server or otherwise installing it from an external source. The enhanced services communication program  also supports a plurality of files and\/or records , e.g. inbox, outbox, archived data, contacts, etc. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, the user must obtain access to the enhanced services communication program in order to access its supported files and records. Access may be, for example, obtained by entering a user identification and corresponding password in response to user prompts displayed on the screen by the enhanced services communication program upon request to open this program. Interactions between the enhanced services communication program and the native communication program is supported by an application program interface (API) associated with the native communication program and\/or supported by the operating system itself.","In the illustrated example, the digital communication interface  transmits and receives digital communication strings with both the native communication program  and the enhanced services communication program . Since communications originated from a wireless mobile unit utilizing the enhanced services communication program is encrypted, the receipt of such an encrypted communication by a destination mobile device will be unintelligible as viewed from a native communication program of the destination mobile device. However, the message may be viewed in clear text format by utilizing the enhanced services communication program on the destination mobile device. For example, a received SMS text message that was transmitted from an enhanced services communication program on the origination mobile device, will appear as a string of unintelligible characters when viewed by the native communication program of a recipient device, except for the leading format indicator \u201c\/\/P:\u201d. The same message will be displayed in a clear text format in the inbox of enhanced services communication program (Peanut) on the recipient device.","The enhanced services communication program  may include a plurality of modules or sub-programs that support different types of enhanced services, e.g. Peanut \u201c\/\/P:\u201d for messaging, Walnut \u201c\/\/W:\u201d for email, Hazelnut \u201c\/\/H:\u201d for banking, Brazilnut \u201c\/\/B:\u201d for insurance, Chestnut \u201c\/\/C:\u201d for games, Pistachio \u201c\/\/PH:\u201d for healthcare, The Nest \u201c\/\/TN:\u201d for coupons, etc. In support of multiple types of ES, the enhanced services communication program  also contains a router module  which determines the type of received communication based on the identifying format, i.e. the \u201c\/\/X:\u201d designation, and routes the communication to the corresponding module for processing. This routing is independent of the transport layer communication protocol that was used to convey the incoming communication to the destination communication device.","For example, an incoming SMS message from the user's automobile insurance agent may contain a notice of the date on which the term of the current insurance policy will be expiring and a reminder to pay the premium to keep the policy in effect. This SMS message will have been transmitted from a device using ES originated by the Brazilnut module \u201c\/\/B:\u201d format since the subject matter of the communication deals with insurance. The router module  in the recipient's communication device will recognize this ES format and route the corresponding communication to the Brazilnut module for processing. An ES email communication concerning insurance, sent from an originator device using the Brazilnut module, could have been used to convey the same message wherein the router module  in the recipient's communication device would route the email communication with a \u201c\/\/B:\u201d format to the Brazilnut module for processing.","Each ES module supports a unique ES format to identify itself and contains its own segregated set of user utilities, i.e. inbox, outbox, etc. That is, each ES module may require a separate user identification and password in order to access the corresponding user utilities, and will have different encryption\/decryption requirements than other ES modules. As explained above, encryption is used for ES communications except for the ES format identification. To properly decrypt a received communication into clear text, the incoming communication must be processed by the ES module in the destination user's device that corresponds to the ES module used to originate the communication since each ES module uses a different form of encryption. For example, an incoming Brazilnut communication received by the intended destination device and processed by its Brazilnut module will be decrypted into a clear text message. However, an incoming Brazilnut communication received by the intended destination device if processed by an ES module other than the Brazilnut module would not be properly decrypted into a clear text message since the decryption process would not match the encryption process. Thus, ES communications, even if processed by the intended destination device, will appear as a character string that is not intelligible if processed by the native communication program of the device or by an ES module of a different format. An ES communication if received or intercepted by an unintended destination device will appear as an unintelligible character string since the encryption\/decryption process is also unique to the originator\/recipient, i.e. the encryption\/decryption key includes parameters associated with specific devices\/users. Hence, the embodiment of the present invention provides identity management as well as subject matter organization and management.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["802","804","708","705"]},"A determination is made in step  of whether all received messages are to be routed to both the native processing application and the ES application. A YES determination by step  causes the received message to be transmitted for processing to both the native processing application  and to the ES application . A NO determination by step , indicating that the user has not selected that all incoming messages be processed by both applications, results in step  making a determination of whether the user has selected all incoming messages to be processed only by the ES application. A YES determination by step  results and all incoming messages being processed by the ES application at step . A NO determination by step  results in step  making a determination if a valid ES format is present in the received message. For example, a valid ES format can be determined to have been received in a message if the first 4 bytes consist of \u201c\/\/X:\u201d where the X corresponds to one of the valid modules in the ES application. A NO determination by step  results in the message being transferred to the native process application for handling as indicated at step . A YES determination by step , indicating that a valid ES format is present in the received message, results in the message being processed by an ES application at step . In step , the ES module to be utilized to process the received message is determined based on the \u201cX\u201d as explained above. If a message is received by step  for processing that does not contain a valid ES module identification, the ES application will still process the message as a native message in a manner similar to the native process application. However, the native processing provided by the ES application differs from the processing provided by the native application in that the ES application places the resulting message in an inbox of a predetermined default ES module, e.g. the message is displayed to a user in the secure inbox of the Peanut application. An advantage of having the ES application process all of the received messages is that all of the supported ES features, e.g. security, backup, retrieval, restore, etc., is made available for all received messages, even messages that were originated from a user device with native processing. It also permits the user to easily transfer all of the saved messages stored on one handset to another handset, even where the other handset is made by a different manufacturer and\/or utilizes a different operating system. Since all received messages are stored only in secure inboxes of the ES application, all received messages are protected by the security provided by the ES application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 5"],"b":["902","904","4","5","906","906","908","910","912","912","908"]},"A NO determination by step  or a NO determination by step  results in step  making a determination of whether user data is present in the subject received message. A NO determination by step , indicating that no user data is present to be processed, results in the conclusion of processing at END . A YES determination by step  results in step  processing the user data contained in the received message. Typically, in the case of an SMS text message, processing user data includes providing an alert to the user indicating that a message has been received, displaying the received message on the screen of the user's wireless mobile unit along with visual indicia indicating the priority assigned by the originator, and storing the received message as a file or record, e.g. a record in the INBOX of the enhanced services application program. Assuming the message was transmitted as an encrypted format, the message will be decrypted, displayed on the screen with corresponding visual indicia, and stored in the INBOX as a clear text message by the enhanced services application program. The processing that concludes at END .","With regard to the automatic expiration feature as implemented by the ES application, a user may execute an EXPORT or BACKUP of an entire INBOX which may contain a message that was subject to an automatic expiration command. Messages contained in the INBOX will be copied to an external file or remote messaging server in the same format in which the message was received. That is, messages will be copied in encrypted format and any commands associated with a message will be maintained as well as time stamps being preserved. As part of an IMPORT of an EXPORTED file, or a RESTORE of a BACKUP file by the ES application, commands originally associated with a message being retrieved will be checked as part of the retrieval process. If an automatic expiration command is found associated with a message attempted to be retrieved, and the time interval associated with the expiration command has lapsed, the message will be deleted as part of the retrieval process and will not be copied to user's device or displayed to the user. Likewise, an ES version of a server that stores the EXPORTED or BACKUP file will also automatically delete any copies of messages that have expired similar to the explained method used by an end-user's device. This is consistent with the message behavior as requested by the originator.","Governmental authorities may have legal authorization to intercept and\/or monitor communications with an individual. The ES application is compliant with the ability of authorities to obtain copies of messages being transmitted through a telecommunication network to or from a certain individual. However, messages are transmitted from the originator's communication device in cipher-text format and remain in that format as the message is transmitted through the nodes in the telecommunication network until the message is delivered to the recipient's device in which the ES application decrypts the cipher-text message into a clear text format. Thus, governmental authorities will have access to the cipher-text messages but will need assistance from the originator (whose device maintains a clear text version of the message) or the recipient (whose device is able to decrypt the cipher-text version into a clear text format) in order to obtain the corresponding clear text messages. In accordance with the ES application, the recipient's device will delete the clear text version of a message upon entry of a manual delete command or upon deletion by the automatic expiration feature. However, the cipher-text (encrypted) version of each received message is maintained in a log file in the recipient's device even if the clear text version of the same message has been deleted. Review of an end-user's log file will enable legal authorities to confirm that the user's device received a specific message at an indicated date\/time.","An alternative version of the automatic expiration command may be based on a certain date\/time or time expiration being reached regardless of whether the recipient has read, e.g. opened\/displayed, the corresponding message. For example, a business that wishes to advise potential customers of a promotion for a product or service where the promotion expires on a certain date\/time may utilize the automatic expiration command for messages associated with the promotion so that such messages are automatically deleted following the end of the promotion. A user may receive such a message but elect not to read\/open the message for various reasons. Upon this alternative automatic expiration time being reached, such a message will be deleted from the recipient's device even if the recipient has not opened or read the corresponding message. This is similar to the above described method except that the deletion event is started upon receipt of the automatic expiration command and monitors the expiration date\/time relative to the current date\/time as kept by the end-user's device. Similarly, if such a message is being held on an ES server awaiting delivery to a recipient and the time interval\/date associated with the alternative automatic expiration command expires, the ES server will delete the message and no further attempted delivery to the recipient will be made.","\u201cForward Restriction\u201d and \u201cBackup Restriction\u201d commands are available to be set by the originator of the message utilizing the ES application. As the name implies, employing a restriction command associated with a transmitted message will cause, on delivery of the message to the recipient's device, a restriction that prevents the recipient from forwarding or backing up the associated message. This feature may be utilized in combination with the automatic expiration feature to prevent a received message from being forwarded or backed up during the time prior to the automatic deletion of the clear text message. Alternatively, this command may be utilized independent of the automatic expiration feature. Upon a request by a recipient of a message to implement a Forward or Backup by the ES application, the respective Forward and Backup features will first check the received commands associated with the respective message(s) to determine if a restriction command is present. If a restriction command is present, the corresponding Forward and\/or Backup features will prohibit the respective forwarding and\/or backing up of such messages. Features such as \u2018save to file\u201d, \u201ccopy\u201d, \u201carchive\u201d, and\/or \u201cprintout\u201d, that are made available to the user as choices for actions to be taken for received messages, are preferably inhibited if a restriction command is associated with a message for which such an action is selected by the user. Inhibiting these features for received messages with a restriction command is consistent with the intent of the message originator to limit dissemination of the message. Such restrictions are implemented by requiring the respective features to perform a check to determine if the corresponding message which is the object of the action includes a restriction command. Such a determination is made as a condition precedent to execution of the respective action, i.e. a restriction command being found in the object message will inhibit execution of the feature, and may optionally cause a screen pop up notice to the user advising that such action is not allowed for restricted messages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["1002","1004","132","132","1006","1006","1008","7","1010","1010","1008","4","6"]},"A NO determination by step  or by step  results in step  making a further determination of whether user data is to be sent as part of the message being composed by the user. A YES determination by step , indicating that user data is to be included, results in step  receiving the user input of the data to be included in the message and storing the user data beginning at the byte position following the last byte of the last command. User input data can be input utilizing a graphical user interface such as from menu selection or by accepting alphanumeric characters entered the user in a predetermined data entry field; see . For each message, the originating user can select a priority, such as one of the exemplary priorities shown in , that will be assigned to the message. Messages are transmitted with a default priority, e.g. \u201cGRAY\u201d, if the originating user does not set a different priority before the message is completed. This is explained in more detail with regard to . Following step  or upon a NO determination by step , indicating that no user data is to be included, a determination is made in step  of whether the completed message should be sent. A YES determination by step  results in the composed message being transmitted from the utilized ES module to the destination wireless mobile unit by step . In the case of a business entity or advertiser utilizing workstation  to transmit a plurality of time-limited promotional messages, the composed message containing an expiration command is transmitted from the workstation to the plurality of end-user devices identified by corresponding addresses by step . As part of the transmission process, the transmitted message may be stored in the OUTBOX of the corresponding ES module in the originating device, e.g. a wireless mobile unit or workstation. The process concludes at END . A NO determination by step , indicating that the composed message is not to be transmitted, results in the aborting of the transmission of the message at step  and determination of processing at END .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":"5"},"In addition to displaying a background color indicative of the message priority, the value of the priority byte may be utilized by the ES application for other purposes and functions. For example, the type of encryption\/decryption utilized for a message may be determined based on the value of the priority byte, e.g. values - may be interpreted by the ES application to utilize a default type of message encryption\/decryption with the corresponding background colors shown in , while values - causes the ES application to utilize a different type of message encryption\/decryption with the display of the same background colors as for values -, respectively.","Also the value of the priority byte can indicate a message security level, e.g. the value  may cause a black background color to be displayed with the message and cause the ES application to utilize a higher level or different encryption\/decryption technique such as requiring a dynamic key exchange or a user entered encryption\/decryption key in order to encrypt\/extract the clear text message. For example, when the originating party selects BLACK as a priority indication, the originator is prompted to enter a password which is used as a custom encryption key to convert clear text message to cipher text that is transmitted to the destination party. On the receiving end, an incoming message with a BLACK priority is received and stored in the cipher text mode. To convert the cipher text message with an associated BLACK priority to clear text, the receiving party will be prompted to enter a password as part of a dynamic key exchange, where the password entered by the receiving party must be the same password used by the originator or a decryption password associated with the encryption password utilized by the originator as part of a linked encryption\/decryption key. The described encryption\/decryption technique and the storage of the message as cipher text for priority value  (BLACK) priority messages differ from the priority values - and - in that the encryption\/decryption of messages associated with the other priorities is processed automatically in accordance with the ES application and the corresponding messages are displayed and stored in clear text format both at the originating and receiving devices. A received BLACK priority message is stored and displayed as cipher text, and will not be displayed as clear text unless the user enters the required password\/key.","Message priorities as implemented by an embodiment of the present invention are ubiquitous. A message of a specified priority, e.g. green, is displayed with the same priority indicia to the recipient regardless of transport layer communication protocol used to transport the message, i.e. whether the message was conveyed via SMS, MMS, email, etc. Further, message priority is uniform across all modules of the ES application so a \u201cred\u201d priority SMS message originated by a Peanut module and a \u201cred\u201d priority SMS message originated by a Brazil Nut module are displayed with the same priority indicia to the recipient even though the received message is processed by different modules of the ES application. The originating device using the ES application saves sent messages with the corresponding priorities and displays sent messages with the same priority indicia as presented to the recipient. Hence, users can easily discern by the display of sent messages the priority that was associated with each.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 15","FIG. 13","FIG. 12"],"b":["1205","1210","1215","1220","1225","1230","1235"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12"],"b":["1305","1230","1310","1315","1320"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 12","FIG. 13"],"b":["1405","1410","1405","1415","1420","1425","1430","1435","1435","1430"]},"The wireless mobile unit in one example employs one or more computer-readable signal-bearing tangible media. The computer-readable signal-bearing tangible media store software, firmware and\/or assembly language for performing one or more portions of one or more embodiments of the invention. The computer-readable signal-bearing tangible medium may contain stored data in the form of magnetic, electrical, optical, biological, and atomic information. For example, the computer-readable signal-bearing tangible medium comprise floppy disks, magnetic tapes, CD-ROMs, DVD-ROMs, hard disk drives, and electronic memory.","Although exemplary implementations of the invention have been depicted and described in detail herein, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications, additions, substitutions, and the like can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention. It is preferred that the recipient of a message for which the Automatic Expiration feature is activated be alerted to this fact. For example, an \u201cE\u201d (for Expiration) can be displayed to the recipient in the summary listing and\/or displayed header of the received message to alert the recipient that this feature is active for the subject message. Further, the header of such a message can display the starting and ending time as defined by the time interval of the Automatic Expiration feature so that the recipient will be aware of the time in which the clear text version of the message can be viewed, i.e. when the automatic deletion of the message is set to occur. Similarly, an \u201cR\u201d (for Restricted) can be displayed to the recipient in the summary listing and\/or displayed header of the received message to alert the recipient that the Forward and Backup Restriction feature is active for the subject message.","The scope of the invention is defined in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Features of exemplary implementations of the invention will become apparent from the description, the claims, and the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 12"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
