---
title: Non-catalytic recuperative reformer
abstract: A non-catalytic recuperative reformer has a flue gas flow path for conducting hot flue gas from a thermal process and a reforming mixture flow path for conducting a reforming mixture. At least a portion of the reforming mixture flow path is embedded in the flue gas flow path to permit heat transfer from the hot flue gas to the reforming mixture. The reforming mixture flow path contains substantially no material commonly used as a catalyst for reforming hydrocarbon fuel (e.g., nickel oxide, platinum group elements or rhenium), but instead the reforming mixture is reformed into a higher calorific fuel via reactions due to the heat transfer and residence time. In a preferred embodiment, extended surfaces of metal material such as stainless steel or metal alloy that are high in nickel content are included within at least a portion of the reforming mixture flow path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09216396&OS=09216396&RS=09216396
owner: Gas Technology Institute
number: 09216396
owner_city: Des Plaines
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110414
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["NOTICE OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This invention was developed under Grant No. DE-FG36-08GO18130 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy, and the Government of the United States of America may have certain rights in this invention pursuant to that grant.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for reforming hydrocarbon fuel into a higher calorific fuel, and in particular relates to a method and apparatus for reforming fuel that does not require any of the catalysts commonly used in reforming hydrocarbon fuel.","2. Description of the Prior Art","Many processes, especially in industrial applications, produce large amounts of excess heat\u2014i.e., heat beyond what can be efficiently used in the process. Waste heat recovery methods attempt to extract and utilize some of the energy from the excess heat that otherwise would be wasted. Typical methods of recovering heat in industrial applications include direct heat recovery to the process itself, recuperators, regenerators, and waste heat boilers.","One particular method of waste heat recovery is based on fuel thermochemical recuperation (TCR). A TCR system can include one or more recuperative reformers, one or more air recuperators, a steam generator, and other necessary components. TCR recovers sensible heat in flue gas (i.e., exhaust gas) from a thermal process (e.g., combustion in a furnace, engine, etc.) and uses that heat to endothermically transform a hydrocarbon fuel source (for example, a fossil fuel such as petroleum, natural gas, or landfill gas) into a reformed fuel with a higher calorific heat content. In particular, the reforming process uses hot flue gas components (such as HO and CO), steam, and\/or CO(landfill gas) to convert the fuel into a combustible mixture of hydrogen (H), carbon monoxide (CO), and unreformed hydrocarbons (CH).","The most studied and widespread reforming process is natural gas (methane) reforming with steam, known as a steam methane reforming (SMR). The SMR process is the most common method of hydrogen production. This process is realized by two main reactions: CH+HO\u2192CO+3Hand CO+HO\u2192CO+H. The first reaction is strongly endothermic and usually realized at high temperatures (1380\u00b0 F.-1470\u00b0 F.) over a nickel catalyst. The second reaction, known as a water gas shift reaction, is mildly exothermic and usually realized at lower temperatures (370\u00b0 F.-660\u00b0 F.) over a nickel catalyst.","Natural gas reforming with flue gas is realized by the same two reactions and one additional endothermic reaction of methane with carbon dioxide: CH+CO\u21922CO+2H. So in the TCR process, steam (HO) and carbon dioxide (CO) are reacting with fuel to produce reformed fuel with higher calorific value. In contrast to the SMR process, hydrogen production is not the only purpose of the TCR process. In the TCR process it is usually more important to increase calorific value of the fuel rather than produce hydrogen. Because of that, the exothermic water gas shift reaction is optional for the TCR process and can be eliminated.","Another possible reaction of the TCR and SMR processes is direct cracking of the hydrocarbon fuel. Cracking produces hydrogen and solid carbon. If the reforming process is conducted over a catalyst, the filamentous carbon eventually deactivates the catalyst. While catalysts are used in the SMR process for hydrogen production and cracking is undesirable, non-catalytic reforming would be very attractive for use in the TCR process when solid carbon can be utilized as a combustible together with the reformed fuel.","The calorific content of the fuel can be increased significantly. For example, if the original fuel source is natural gas (where methane is the main component), the calorific content can be increased by up to approximately 28%. When this reformed fuel is combusted in a furnace, fuel economy is improved, system efficiency is increased, and emissions are reduced. Because both HO and COcan be utilized in the reforming process, it is advantageous for natural gas-fired systems since both of these gases are major products of combustion and are therefore readily available in a preheated state. If steam is available for the process, or if a heat recovery boiler can be installed together with the reformer, then the steam can be used to reform the fuel.","TCR as a process has been investigated for a number of applications (See, e.g., Maruoka N. et al., \u201cFeasibility Study for Recovering Waste Heat in the Steelmaking Industry Using a Chemical Recuperator,\u201d IsIJ International, Vol. 44, 2004, No. 2, pp. 257-262; Yap D. et al., \u201cNatural gas HCCI engine operation with exhaust gas fuel reforming,\u201d International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, 2006, Vol. 31, pp. 587-595; and U.S. Pat. No. 7,207,323.) The results of these investigations showed that a catalyst is required to reform the fuel. Thus, existing recuperative reformers for TCR systems are catalytic.","Most catalysts used in catalytic reformers contain nickel oxide, platinum, or rhenium on a silica, alumina, or a silica-alumina support base, and some contain both platinum and rhenium. Other platinum group elements may also be used. The activity (i.e., effectiveness) of the catalyst in a catalytic reformer is reduced over time during operation by carbon deposition. The activity of the catalyst can be periodically regenerated or restored by in situ high temperature oxidation of the carbon. Typically, catalytic reformers are regenerated about once every 6 to 24 months, and the catalyst normally can be regenerated about 3 or 4 times before it must be returned to the manufacturer for reclamation of the valuable platinum and\/or rhenium content.","The use of an expensive catalyst in the reformer increases the reformer capital cost. Further, the necessary periodic regeneration of the catalyst\u2014and the eventual need to replace the catalyst after it is regenerated a few times\u2014also drives up the system cost. As a result, in many applications\u2014especially those with low-temperature waste heat streams, such as automotive applications\u2014the economic benefits of waste heat recovery do not justify the cost of the recovery systems.","[SMR?]","Innovative, affordable methods that are highly efficient and suitable for use with corrosive or \u201cdirty\u201d wastes could expand the number of viable applications of waste heat recovery, as well as improve the performance of existing applications.","The present invention is applicable, for example, to a waste heat recovery system and method for use in heating applications such as heat treat furnaces, melters, burners, engines, turbines, etc., where a hydrocarbon fuel is used for combustion with air, oxygen-enriched air, or oxygen.","According to one preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a recuperative reformer having (1) a preheater section comprising (i) a first portion of a flue gas flow path and (ii) a first portion of a reforming mixture flow path that is at least partially embedded within the first portion of the flue gas flow path to permit heat transfer between flue gas in the flue gas flow path and reforming mixture in the reforming mixture flow path and (2) a reactor section comprising (i) a second portion of the flue gas flow path and (ii) a second portion of the reforming mixture flow path that is at least partially embedded within the second portion of the flue gas flow path to permit heat transfer between flue gas in the flue gas flow path and reforming mixture in the reforming mixture flow path.","The flue gas flow path is configured to receive hot flue gas from a thermal process, the first portion of the reforming mixture flow path is configured to receive a gaseous reforming mixture have a volumetric flow rate and the second portion of the reforming mixture flow path is configured to receive the reforming mixture from the first portion of the reforming mixture flow path, and the reforming mixture flow path contains substantially no catalyst. Further, at least a part of the second portion of the reforming mixture flow path contains extended surfaces of metal material, and the second portion of the reforming mixture flow path is configured to provide residence time greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold for the reforming mixture having the volumetric flow rate.","According to a second preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a thermal waste recovery system that includes a non-catalytic recuperative reformer, the reformer having (i) a flue gas flow path configured to receive flue gas from the outlet of a reaction chamber and (ii) a reforming mixture flow path configured to receive a reforming mixture having a volumetric flow rate and to output a reformed fuel. At least a portion of the reforming mixture flow path is embedded within the flue gas flow path to permit heat transfer between flue gas in the flue gas flow path and reforming mixture in the reforming mixture flow path, and the reforming mixture flow path contains substantially no catalyst. Further, at least a portion of the reforming mixture flow path contains extended surfaces of metal material, and the reforming mixture flow path is configured to provide residence time greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold for the reforming mixture having the volumetric flow rate.","According to yet another preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a method of reforming hydrocarbon fuel into higher calorific fuel. The method includes the steps of (i) introducing hot flue gas from a thermal process into a flue gas flow path of a reformer, (ii) introducing a reforming mixture having a volumetric flow rate into a reforming mixture flow path of a reformer, wherein at least a portion of the reforming mixture flow path is embedded in the flue gas flow path to permit heat transfer from the flue gas in the flue gas flow path to the reforming mixture in the reforming mixture flow path, wherein the reforming mixture flow path contains substantially no catalyst, and wherein the reforming mixture flow path is configured to provide a residence time equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold for the reforming mixture having the volumetric flow rate, and (iii) outputting reformed fuel from an outlet of the reforming mixture flow path.","By performing fuel reforming using substantially no material that is commonly used as a catalyst to reform hydrocarbon fuel, which material is generally quite expensive and suffers from reduced performance over time due to coke deposition, the initial cost of the reformer is lowered and the maintenance cost is decreased by avoiding the need to periodically regenerate, and eventually replace, the catalyst.","Further aspects of the present invention will be understood from the detailed description of preferred embodiments below, taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures.","Currently preferred embodiments of the invention will be described with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","110","120","130","120","110","140","110","120"]},"The reforming mixture flow path  is preferably formed by one or more plenum, a plurality of conduit sections that pass through the flue gas flow path, and one or more baffles. In particular, in the preferred embodiment shown in  a first portion of the reforming mixture flow path , which is contained in the preheater section  of the reformer, includes (1) a plenum  having a first portion on one side of the flue gas flow path and a second portion on the opposite side of the flue gas flow path, (2) conduit sections , , , and , and (3) baffles (or partitions) and . Similarly, a second portion of the reforming mixture flow path , which is contained in the reactor section  of the reformer and receives the reforming mixture from the first portion of the reforming mixture flow path, includes (1) a plenum  having a first portion on one side of the flue gas flow path and a second portion on the opposite side of the flue gas flow path, (2) conduit sections , , , , and , (3) baffles , , , and , and extended surfaces of metal material. (As shown in , conduit section  marks the transition point from the preheater section  to the reactor section , but this transition could occur at other points.)","The reforming mixture enters plenum  at the first plenum portion and, due to baffle , must flow through conduit section  to the second plenum portion . Baffle then forces the reforming mixture to flow through conduit section  back to the first plenum portion , and then the reforming mixture flows through conduit sections  and . Similarly, baffles , , , and guide the reforming mixture through plenum section , conduit section , plenum second , conduit section  and so on through the remaining conduit sections , , and , to an outlet of the reforming mixture flow path.","At least a part of the reforming mixture flow path, and in particular at least a part of the second portion of the reforming mixture flow path, contains extended surfaces of metal material  (in addition to the walls of the conduit sections, when the conduits are made of metal). In the preferred embodiment shown in , the extended surfaces of metal  are located at least in the conduit sections  through  and in the plenum . The extended surfaces of metal  may also be included in the first portion of the reforming mixture flow path. The extended surfaces of metal material  provide high heat transfer and reforming reaction rates.","As depicted in , this preferred embodiment uses counter-current flow between the flue gas and the reforming mixture, i.e., the flue gas flows through the reformer in a direction substantially opposite to the direction in which the reforming mixture flows through the reformer. More specifically, hot flue gas enters the reformer at the reactor section  and exits as cooled flue gas at the preheater section , while the reforming mixture enters the reformer at the opposite end, i.e., at the preheater section , and exits the reformer as reformed fuel at the reactor section . However, different flow arrangements between the flue gas and the reforming mixture in the reformer are possible, such as co-current flow, cross flow, or cross-parallel flow.","The reformer  is preferably made of metal. However, the present invention is not limited to the use of metal, and the reformer  (in particular, the flue gas flow path  and the reforming mixture flow path ) can be made of appropriate materials that are adequate to withstand the temperatures and pressures of the flue gas and the reforming mixture, do not react in an undesirable manner with the gas flows, and provide appropriate heat transfer characteristics to transfer sufficient heat from the flue gas to the reforming mixture to promote the desired chemical reactions. Notably, however, it is preferred that the reformer include no catalytic material commonly used in reforming hydrocarbon fuels, such rhenium, platinum, or other members of the platinum group (e.g., ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, iridium, and osmium). The extended surfaces of metal material  can be made of commonly used metal plates or foils such as stainless steel or metal alloys.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","130","170","170","170","170"],"i":["a","b","c. "]},"Further, in this preferred embodiment the extended surfaces of metal material  (e.g., inserts), made of stainless steel or a metal alloy, are used inside the metal pipes to intensify heat transfer and promote chemical reactions. The extended surfaces of metal material may be located inside plenum  and also, optionally, plenum  in addition to being located inside the conduit sections. Although  depicts the extended surfaces of metal material as being located in all the conduit sections, as mentioned above they may located in only the conduct sections in the second portion of the reforming mixture flow path, or in only a part of the second portion of the reforming mixture flow path. Also, although the cross-sections of the extended surfaces of metal in  depict the extended surfaces as extending in both the vertical and horizontal direction, they are not limited to having this particular cross-section.","The reformer  shown in  operates in the following way. Hot flue gas from a thermal process passes through the reactor section  first and then through the preheater section . The hot flue gas is used as a heat source to promote chemical reactions in the reformer and also to preheat the reforming mixture. The flue gas mainly consists of, for example, nitrogen (about 71% vol. of N), water vapor (about 19% vol. of HO), and carbon dioxide (about 10% vol. of CO). The reforming mixture can be, for example, a mixture of hydrocarbon fuel and flue gas, a mixture of the fuel and steam, a mixture of the fuel and carbon dioxide, or a mixture of the fuel with flue gas and steam. The reformed fuel contains a combustible mixture of hydrogen (H), carbon monoxide (CO) carbon dioxide (CO), nitrogen (N), water vapor (HO) and unreformed hydrocarbons (CH), including methane (if the fuel is natural gas).","The temperature of the hot flue gas can be up to approximately 350\u00b0 F., so the reformer  must be designed to accommodate such temperatures. The temperature of the reforming mixture in the reactor section  should be higher than 350\u00b0 F. in order to promote chemical reactions. Preferably, the temperature of the reforming mixture in the reactor section  should be in the range of 800\u00b0 F.-24400\u00b0 F. depending on the fuel composition, application, and economics. The reactor section  should be designed to maintain the reforming mixture at a temperature in the desired range, for example, by ensuring sufficient surface area contact between the reforming mixture flow path and the flue gas flow path and sufficient residence time in the reactor section .","The preheater section  is used to increase the reforming mixture temperature to a value at which chemical reactions can start and can be intensive. The reforming mixture temperature at the preheater section outlet, when it passes into the reactor section , is preferably (but not necessarily) the same as the reforming mixture temperature at the reactor section outlet. In this case, the heat flow from flue gas to the reforming mixture in the reactor section would be consumed to compensate heat absorption due to endothermic chemical reactions.","Residence time is calculated as the volume of the reforming mixture flow path divided by the volumetric flow rate, and it is equal to 1\/space velocity. (When the reforming mixture flow path has multiple sections, such as a reactor section and a preheater section, the calculation can use just the volume of the relevant section of the reforming mixture flow path, e.g., the reactor section, to focus on the residence time in the reactor section.) The volume of plenum  should provide necessary residence time for the chemical reactions. The desired total volume of the plenum  and the conduit sections in the reactor section  (i.e., the volume of the second portion of the reforming mixture flow path) depends on the area of the extended surfaces of metal material , the type of material, and the reforming fuel composition, and it can be estimated based on residence time or space velocity of the reforming fuel in the reactor section .","Preferably, the maximum value of the space velocity is approximately 3600 hrwhich is estimated based on standard conditions (for example, 60\u00b0 F. and 14.7 psi absolute pressure), and more preferably the maximum value of the space velocity is in a range of approximately 30 hrto 3600 hr. In other words, the residence time should be greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold, and that threshold is preferably 1 second-2 minutes. The lowest residence time (1 second) is applicable when the surface area of metal surface is extremely extended, the metal has high nickel content, and the temperature of the reforming mixture is high (>1800\u00b0 F.). The highest residence time (2 minutes) is applicable when the surface area of metal surface is not extended or is slightly extended and the temperature of the reforming mixture is low (<1800\u00b0 F.). The term \u201cextended surface area\u201d means that the surface area which is in contact with a reforming mixture is higher than the heat transfer surface area required for efficient heat transfer. The heat transfer area is a surface area which is needed to heat up the reforming mixture and maintain the required temperature of the reforming mixture during endothermic reactions. More nickel content in the metal would decrease the needed residence time since nickel promotes the chemical reactions. More nitrogen (at a higher flue gas\/natural gas ratio) in the reforming mixture would increase the needed residence time and the reformer size.","For example, as a hypothetical example, when the reforming mixture primarily comprises 3 moles of flue gas and 1 mole of natural gas and has a flow rate of 100 SCFH, and the pipes  through  together with plenum  have total volume of about 0.3 ft, the space velocity would be about 333 hr, and the total area of extended surfaces of metal material would preferably be about 10 ftif high nickel alloy material (for example, greater than about 80% nickel by weight) is used.","A second preferred embodiment of a recuperative reformer according to the present invention will be described with respect to .  depicts a flow diagram of the second preferred embodiment. Parts that remain substantially the same as the corresponding parts in the first preferred embodiment are labeled with the same reference numbers.","In the second preferred embodiment, the conduit sections of reformer  that pass through the flue gas flow path between the different portions of plenum  and plenum  are flat, plate-shaped channels rather than tubular pipes as in the first preferred embodiment. Thus, in this embodiment the reforming mixture flows through channels  through , passing between the different portions of plenum  and plenum , so that the reforming mixture flow path  passes through the flue gas flow path  multiple times.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 4"],"b":["200","270","270","270","270","270","270","130","130","130","130","270","278","150","160","190"],"i":["a","b","c","d","e","a","b","c","d"]},"Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other configurations of the flue gas flow path and the reforming mixture flow path are possible, as long as sufficient heat transfer occurs between the flue gas and the reforming mixture to permit the necessary reactions in the reforming mixture. Also, as depicted in , in the first and second preferred embodiments the volume of the reforming mixture flow path in the preheater section  is less than the volume of the reforming mixture flow path in the reactor section . However, the present invention is not limited to such a configuration, and those skilled in the art will appreciate that, under certain circumstances, other embodiments are possible that have different ratios of flow path volume, and which may even eliminate the preheater section.","The recuperative reformer design can be accomplished in a similar way as for air air recuperator design taking into account chemical reactions in the reformer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","510","520","500","510"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["600","600","610","100"]},"The preferred embodiments described above, and others that those skilled in the art will recognize as being within the scope of the present invention defined by the claims below, provide benefits regarding fuel efficiency and decreased emissions, while doing so at a reduced cost and\/or lower temperatures than certain prior art reforming techniques. In particular, reforming of natural gas with recycled exhaust gas or steam can significantly reduce fuel consumption, COand NOemissions, and cost, as well as increase process thermal efficiency. The reforming apparatus and method described above relate to a non-catalytic recuperative reformer that does not utilize expensive catalysts commonly used to reform hydrocarbon fuel. This reduces the capital cost of the reformer and allows elimination of catalyst maintenance and replacement, which further reduces the cost. Moreover, the efficiency of the non-catalytic recuperative reformer does not deteriorate over time due to a reduction of catalyst activity. By decreasing the reformer cost and\/or operating temperature, such an apparatus and\/or method may make fuel reforming practical in a wider variety of contexts (for example, lower temperature processes), as well as improving the efficiency of fuel reforming in current industrial applications.","The maximum benefits of the present invention are obtained by using no catalytic material in the reformer, as in the preferred embodiments described in detail above. However, some benefit may be obtained by making a reformer that is substantially free from catalytic material yet contains a small amount of a catalyst (such as nickel, rhodium, platinum or rhenium). Such a reformer would still require periodic regeneration and replacement of the catalyst, but the relatively small amount of catalyst would lower the capital cost and could decrease the maintenance cost. Thus, while the most preferred embodiments contain no catalyst from among nickel oxide, rhenium and the platinum group elements, some benefits of the present invention may be obtained from embodiments containing substantially no such catalyst (e.g., less than about 10% of such a catalyst by mass).","The present invention has been described above with respect to particular preferred embodiments. However, the details of the specific exemplary embodiments should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention. Rather, the scope of the invention should be measured by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
