---
title: SCR module dynamic counter tester
abstract: An SCR module tester facilitates rapid testing of SCR modules by a series of tests that are tailored to detect faults without applying full power to the modules. The SCR tester includes a quick clamp connector that is able to securely and easily clamp SCR modules for both the F/A-18 A/D GCU and F/A-18-E/F GCU facilitating the rapid testing of SCR modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08427184&OS=08427184&RS=08427184
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08427184
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110322
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, licensed, and used by or for the U.S. Government.","The Aircraft Engine Component Test Stand\/Peculiar Support Equipment (AECTS\/PSE) is a specially designed Intermediate Level (I-Level) instrument for testing Generator Converter Units (GCU's) used in the F\/A-18 A-D and F\/A-18 E\/F. It is designed to test GCU systems as a whole without removing components. Because all GCU components remain connected during an AECTS\/PSE test, and there are a limited number of test points, it can be difficult to pinpoint and correctly diagnose the source of a failure. GCU's that fail an AECTS\/PSE test thus require laborious disassembly and component-by-component testing to determine which components may be defective. With 36 silicon controlled rectifier (SCR) channels on the F\/A-18 A-D GCU and 54 on the F\/A-18 E\/F GCU, complete testing of all of the SCR modules in a GCU is very time consuming. Thus, there is a compelling need for a solid functional test apparatus that enables rapid and reliable testing of SCR modules for both F\/A-18 A-D and F\/A-18 E\/F GCU's.","In general, in one aspect, an embodiment of a silicon controlled rectifier module dynamic counter tester for testing a silicon controlled rectifier module for a generator control unit, the silicon controlled rectifier module including a control voltage input, a gate input, a source power input and a load power output, the apparatus for testing the SCR including a power source interruptably connected to the power source input of the silicon controlled rectifier module to be tested, a load interruptably connected to the load power output of the silicon controlled rectifier module to be tested, a control voltage power source interruptably connected to a control voltage input of the silicon controlled rectifier module to be tested, a test trigger voltage source interruptably connected to the silicon controlled rectifier module to be tested, a quick clamp assembly for releasably securing the silicon controlled rectifier module, the quick clamp assembly comprising a plurality of probes for making multiple interruptible connections to the silicon controlled rectifier module, a logic control module to perform logic\/control and automated test functions for testing a silicon controlled rectifier module for a generator control unit, a display to show the results of tests performed by the apparatus, an overload protection module to prevent excess current from being drawn by the silicon controlled rectifier under test, a safety interlock device that automatically prevents operator electrical shocks, and an enclosure containing the apparatus for testing the silicon controlled rectifier module for a generator control unit.","In another aspect, the clamp assembly for securing the silicon controlled rectifier and making said interruptible test input power source connections is configured to connect to an SCR module for the generator control unit of an F-18 aircraft.","In yet another aspect, the logic control module of the SCR module counter tester according to the present invention is configured to provide a plurality of test cycles each test cycle comprising delivering an input voltage to the SCR under test followed by a plurality of trigger signal pulses to the SCR gate input after a zero crossing of the input voltage","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings which are a part of this patent disclosure, and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention, as claimed, may be practiced. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the following detailed description.","Embodiments of an SCR Module Dynamic Counter Tester (DCT) according to the present invention are designed to replicate the SCR Module interface for SCR's used in Generator Converter Units (GCU's) for the F\/A-18 A-D and F\/A-18 E\/F\/G, testing one module at a time. The DCT electrically isolates the SCR Module being tested and provides a series of dynamic tests designed to detect intermittent failures as well as open circuit and short circuit faults. The system performs tests at relatively low current levels without approaching device rated limits, assuring that it will not induce damage.","A prototype DCT has proven to be 93% accurate in pass\/fail determination without testing the full dynamic range, a strong improvement over the AECTS\/PSE's 20% accuracy rate. Alternative embodiments of a DCT according to the present invention may be equipped to provide a high current load to cause an SCR under test to heat to the point of heat related failure modes. In alternative embodiments, a DCT according to the present invention may be equipped with a heating device such as a silicone heat blanket or another source of radiant heat, for example, a heat lamp, to heat the SCR under test to a point where heat related failure modes are known to occur. Because only a limited number of failures occur near the thermal limits of the SCR's and heat testing takes additional time, in many applications, the tradeoff for speed over increased accuracy beyond 93% is reasonable, especially given the operational environment at Intermediate and Depot level GCU maintenance facilities. When non-heating embodiments of the DCT are used in conjunction with the AECTS\/PSE in accordance with procedures, the overall accuracy rate in determining SCR Module pass\/fail will be 96% to 97%. As a pretest that compliments the tests performed by the AECTS\/PSE this is more than adequate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 3"],"b":["100","100","300","130","120","140","190","150","170","160","100","300"]},"Quick clamp assembly  includes a base plate  on which are mounted dual SCR clamping mechanisms, a three channel clamp mechanism  for releasably securing a three channel F-18 A\/D SCR module , and a six channel clamp mechanism  for releasably securing a 6 channel F-18 E\/F\/G SCR module . (SCR modules ,  are not shown in ). Each clamp mechanism , , includes a horizontal top member  secured to a pair of vertical guide shafts  that extend down to a common base plate  in which they are secured.","Clamp mechanism ,  also each include a clamping head ,  that provides multiple probes  that are positioned to engage contacts located on the top face of the respective SCR to be tested. To enable connection of multiple probes in a single motion, clamping heads ,  have through holes permitting them to slide on vertical guide shafts  from an up (unclamped) position to a down (clamped) position.","As shown in , probes  are preferably spring loaded contact pins which are selected to ensure that secure electrical connection is made at each contact of the SCR to be tested. Tensioning springs  are located on each of the verticals shafts  above clamping heads ,  and serve to bias the clamping heads ,  downwardly so that probes  securely engage their respective contacts on the SCRs under test.","Clamping heads ,  have hand holes  that allow the claiming heads ,  to be grasped and drawn up toward horizontal top members  thus enabling one handed operation while the other hand may be used to remove and insert SCR's to be tested. Each clamping head , , further includes retaining fasteners  for each vertical guide shaft  to secure the clamping heads , , in the up (unclamped) position. In  the retaining fasteners  are knurled screws that may be tightened against the vertical shafts . In alternative embodiments, retaining fasteners  may include one or more spring-biased pins, keys or balls that engage corresponding detents on shafts  to hold clamping heads , , in an unclamped position.","Quick clamp assembly  also includes one or more safety interlock devices  to protect users from electrical shocks. Safety interlock devices  serve to automatically interrupt mains power to clamp mechanisms , , whenever clamp mechanisms , , are not properly in the down (clamped) position. In  safety interlock devices , are single-pole single-throw switches for each clamping mechanism ,  that are automatically thrown when clamping heads ,  are fully in the down (clamped) position. In alternative embodiments, safety interlock devices may include switches and\/or sensors located adjacent to or on clamp mechanisms ,  which may actuate mechanically, magnetically or optically. In further alternative embodiments, one or more additional safety switches and\/or sensors may be positioned on base plate  underneath clamping heads ,  to interrupt power whenever an SCR to be tested is not properly in position.","Referring again to , input power SCRIN is connected through quick clamp assembly  to the input power channels of SCR modules , , under test. Similarly, a resistive load bank  is connected to the output power channels of SCR modules , , under test via quick clamp assembly . Resistive load bank  preferably provides three channels. Thus, six channel SCRs  are tested three channels at a time. Connections to SCRIN, SCR, SCR and SCR are made through probes  which are positioned in 3 channel clamp mechanism  above the respective contact points on SCR module . Likewise, connections to the six SCR channels of SCR  are made through the 6 channel clamp mechanism  above contact points on SCR module . As noted, spring loaded electrical contact pins are preferably used for the probes  in clamp mechanism  and .","While the in-service GCU voltage may reach 200 volts RMS, and current loads may reach as much as 60 amps, it has been determined that 110 VAC at 2.4 amps is generally sufficient for testing functionality of the SCR Modules. Resistive load bank  provides for a load current of 2.4 amps at line voltage (110 VAC) through each channel of SCR Modules  and . Cooling fans or other cooling devices such as peltier elements should be provided in the housing for DCT  to ensure that resistive elements of resistive load bank  do not overheat.","The control functions of GCU SCR modules  and  utilize 24 VDC and 48 VDC. A power supply  provides the 24 VDC and 48 VDC control power for the SCR modules. A control voltage connector  is provided with quick clamp assembly  to supply control voltages (P-, P- and GND) to SCR modules under test. As shown in , control voltage connector  (a 10 pin DIN) is mounted to base plate  beneath clamping head  for making control voltage connections to 3 channel SCR modules . An external connector (not illustrated) is provided for control voltage connections to 6 channel SCR modules .","A number of circuit breakers are provided with DCT  on overload protection module . Circuit breakers are used to protect DCT  from excessive current and to detect short circuits in SCR modules to be tested. Circuit breakers on panel  include a main breaker , a 0.5 amp breaker  for the 48 volt direct current (VDC) supply, a 0.5 amp breaker  for the 24 VDC supply, a 0.5 amp breaker  for the 15 VDC supply, a 5 amp breaker  for the 120 VAC SCR input voltage SCRIN (A\/D & E\/F Bank A) or (E\/F Bank B), and a 0.5 amp breaker  for SCR Trigger voltage.","Logic control module  provides circuitry to perform logic\/control and automated test functions of DCT . Logic and control functions may be implemented using a variety of digital circuits, including, for example, discrete logic gates, a controller or processor, or programmable logic arrays, or a combination thereof. A user control panel  is equipped with switches to activate the various functions handled by control module . These include a main power switch , a number-of-cycles select switch  (selecting, for example, between a 1,000 or 10,000 cycle test), a voltmeter selector switch , an SCR Module select switch  (for example, F-A\/18 A\/D or F-A\/18 E\/F\/G), a bank select switch  (pertains to E\/F\/G only), and a Run\/Test switch .","DCT  also provides a display  that includes a waveform display  (for example, an oscilloscope), and a number of numerical counter displays. The waveform display  provides added confidence that the SCR module under test is operational. It enables a user to see the characteristic sine wave at a glance to ensure the unit under test is properly functioning. In this embodiment there are four counter\/displays shown, a counter\/display  (INTERROGATION), a counter\/display  (CH 1 REPLY), a counter\/display  (CH 2 REPLY), and a counter\/display  (CH 3 REPLY). Individual displays\/counters may be combined on one or more display devices and may be digital or analog depending on the needs of a particular embodiment. In alternative embodiments, a single display device may be used to display both waveforms and numerical test results.","A number of test cycles are run to determine whether an SCR module may be defective. An example of the correct voltage waveforms observed on waveform display  over one test cycle is shown in . Voltage SCRIN is the input voltage and SCR, SCR, and SCR, are the output voltage channels measured from test points on the respective SCR modules under test. In general, when the gate-to-cathode voltage of an SCR exceeds a certain threshold, a properly operating SCR will turn \u201con\u201d and conducts current. The device will remain in the \u201con\u201d state even after the gate current is removed so long as current through the anode to cathode current remains above the holding current. Once current falls below the holding current for an appropriate period of time, the device will switch \u201coff.\u201d If the gate is pulsed and the current through the device is below the holding current, the device will remain in the \u201coff\u201d state. Basically, in order to test an SCR, it must be determined whether the SCR restricts current to normal leakage current when in the \u201coff\u201d state, responds appropriately to trigger signals and conducts as it should when in the \u201con\u201d state.","DCT  tests 3 channels of an SCR simultaneously. Thus, an entire A\/D module or one half of an E\/F\/G module may be tested at one time. A regular test takes roughly 35 seconds (for 1000 cycles) for a simultaneous test of three channels. An extended test of 10,000 Hz may alternatively be selected.","Operation of DCT  is as follows. With reference to the Functional Flow Diagram shown in , following process step Start , at step  the user mounts an SCR ,  to be tested in the appropriate clamp mechanism ,  of quick clamp assembly . (To facilitate testing, both quick clamp mechanisms ,  may be loaded with an SCR to be tested.) Proper insertion of the SCR and complete closure of quick clamp mechanism ,  automatically switches the safety interlock devices  to enable the SCRIN test voltage to pass to the SCR(s) to be tested.","At step , the user selects which type SCR to test, A\/D or E\/F switch . If E\/F was selected, step  requires selection of testing Bank A or B switch . Step  requires choice to run a regular test of 1,000 cycles (approximately 35 seconds) or an extended test of 10,000 cycles (approximately 5.5 minutes) switch . The user then depresses power button  and A DC voltage pre-check (step ) ensures that control test voltages are within specification. Initially, 48VDC and 24VDC are provided to power each module under test.","If DC voltages are found to be acceptable (step ), the user may press the Run Test switch  (step ) to commence testing. If not, the user shuts off the power (step ) and the unit fails the test (step ).","After the Run Test switch  has been pressed, input voltage SCRIN is provided to the SCR module under test. The user observes the waveform display . SCRIN is nominally 120 VAC at 2.4 Amps. SCRIN and output waveforms SCR, SCR and SCR will be displayed on waveform display screen . The waveform display screen  is optional and may not be included in all embodiments.","A\/D Module Testing","Trigger signal pulses of +2 volts to \u221210 volts are delivered to each A\/D SCR of the modules at trigger signal inputs P -, P- and P- (not illustrated). For each cycle there are 9-11 (an average of 10) asynchronous trigger pulses. The trigger pulses commence soon after the zero crossing of the SCRIN input voltage. After a test cycle takes place there is a wait cycle. In other words, test cycles occur at every other cycle of the line voltage so there are less likely to be false readings. While 30 Hz is a convenient frequency to use and is effective in testing F-18 GCU SCR modules, in alternative embodiments, test cycles may be run more frequently, up to approximately 4,000 Hz. Counters ,  and  register and display a count whenever an SCR channel has output a voltage. There are threshold detectors for counters ,  and  of output voltages SCR, SCR and SCR, respectively, which are set at 60 volts or greater to avoid false counts. In addition the power supply and circuit breakers of DCT  have been sized for enhanced failure detection.","E\/F Module Testing","Trigger signal pulses of +24 volts to 0 volts are delivered to each of six E\/F SCR channels. E\/F Bank A testing is very similar to A\/D testing, and both test using the positive \u00bd wave of the SCR In input voltage with the trigger pulses J-, J-, and J- (not illustrated) turning on soon after the zero crossing. For each cycle there are 9-11 (an average of 10) asynchronous trigger pulses (12 microsecond pulse width with 12 microseconds between pulses) Threshold detectors for counters ,  and  of output voltages SCR, SCR and SCR, respectively, which are set at 60 volts or greater to avoid false counts, same as A\/D.","E\/F Bank B testing uses the negative \u00bd wave of the SCRIN input voltage with trigger pulses J-, J-, and J- (not illustrated) turning on soon after zero crossing on a negative \u00bd wave of the SCR In input voltage. The trigger pulses are otherwise the same in appearance as the trigger pulses used on E\/F Bank A. Threshold detectors for counters ,  and  of output voltages SCR, SCR and SCR, respectively, are set at approximately \u221260 volts.","Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments hereof, it will be clear to one skilled in the art that the above embodiments may be altered in many ways without departing from the invention. Accordingly, the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments according to the invention are illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals represent like parts throughout and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
