---
title: Systems, methods and analyzers for establishing a secure wireless network in point of care testing
abstract: A system and method for initiating and maintaining a secure wireless communication between a wireless analyzer and a target network (e.g., a hospital network connected to a LIS and/or HIS). The present disclosure provides novel processes and systems for securely networking a wireless analyzer with a Wi-Fi network without the need for an operator or user to engage in manual initiation steps on, or through, the wireless analyzer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549600&OS=08549600&RS=08549600
owner: Abbott Point of Care Inc.
number: 08549600
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110830
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","System Environment","Flow Diagram"],"p":["The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13\/046,515, filed on Mar. 11, 2011, the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","The present invention relates to wireless medical devices and medical device networks. Specifically, the present invention relates to systems and methods for securing wireless data communication protocols and wireless data communication features for use in a medical device network environment.","For hospitals, the recent introduction of point-of-care (POC) testing capabilities has created unique requirements for secure data transmission from point-of-care test instruments to the central data station (CDS), laboratory information system (LIS), and\/or hospital information system (HIS) inventory control.","Point-of-care sample analysis systems are generally based on a reusable reading apparatus that performs sample tests using a disposable device (e.g., a cartridge or strip) that contains analytical elements (e.g., electrodes or optics for sensing analytes such as, for example, pH, oxygen, or glucose). The disposable device can optionally include fluidic elements (e.g., conduits for receiving and delivering the sample to the electrodes or optics), calibrant elements (e.g., fluids for standardizing the electrodes with a known concentration of the analyte), and dyes with known extinction coefficients for standardizing optics. The reading apparatus or instrument contains electrical circuitry and other components for operating the electrodes or optics, making measurements, and doing computations. The reading apparatus can typically display results and communicate those results to a CDS, LIS, and\/or an HIS by way of a computer workstation. Communication between a reading apparatus (e.g., a point-of-care device) and a workstation, and\/or between a workstation and a CDS\/LIS\/HIS, may, for example, be by way of an infrared link, a wired connection, a wireless communication, or any other form of data communication capable of transmitting and receiving information, or any combination thereof.","Point-of-care sample testing systems eliminate the time-consuming need to send a sample to a central laboratory for testing. Point-of-care sample testing systems allow a user e.g. a nurse and physician, at the bedside of a patient, to obtain a reliable, quantitative, analytical results, comparable in quality to that which would be obtained in a laboratory. In operation, the user may select a device with the required panel of tests (e.g., electrolytes, metabolites, cardiac markers and the like), draw a sample, dispense it into the device, optionally seal the device, and insert the device into the reading apparatus to communicate the data to an LIS\/HIS for analysis. An example of such a system is the i-STAT\u00ae system sold by Abbott Point-of-Care, Inc., Princeton, N.J., USA. The i-STAT\u00ae portable blood analysis system typically comprises Wi-Fi-enabled reader instruments that work in conjunction with single-use blood testing cartridges that contain sensors for various analytes. For further information on the i-STAT\u00ae portable blood analysis system, see http:\/\/www.abbottpointofcare.com\/.","Analyzers, such as a self-contained disposable sensing device or cartridge and a reader or instrument, are further described in commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 5,096,669 to Lauks, et al., the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. In operation, a fluid sample to be measured is drawn into a device and the device is inserted into the reader through a slotted opening. Data generated from measurements performed by the reader may be output to a display and\/or other output device, such as a printer, or, as described in greater detail below, via a wireless network connection. The disposable device may contain sensing arrays and several cavities and conduits that perform sample collection, provide reagents for use in measurement and sensor calibration, and transport fluids to and from the sensors. Optionally, reagents may be mixed into the sample for testing. Sensing arrays in the device measure the specific chemical species in the fluid sample being tested. The electrochemical sensors are exposed to and react with the fluid sample to be measured generating electrical currents and potentials indicative of the measurements being performed. The electrochemical sensors may be constructed dry and when the calibrant fluid flows over the electrochemical sensors, the sensors easily \u201cwet up\u201d and are operational and stable for calibration and composition measurements. These characteristics provide many packaging and storage advantages, including a long shelf life. Each of the sensing arrays may comprise an array of conventional electrical contacts, an array of electrochemical sensors, and circuitry for connecting individual sensors to individual contacts. The electrical signals are communicated to a reader enabled to perform calculations and to display data, such as the concentration of the results of the measurement.","Although the particular order in which the sampling and analytical steps occur may vary between different point-of-care systems and providers, the objective of providing rapid sample test results in close proximity to a patient remains. The reading apparatus (e.g., i-STAT\u00ae or other wireless analyzer) may then perform a test cycle (i.e., all the other analytical steps required to perform the tests). Such simplicity gives the physician quicker insight into a patient's physiological status and, by reducing the time for diagnosis, enables a quicker decision by the physician on the appropriate treatment, thus enhancing the likelihood of a successful patient treatment.","In the emergency room and other acute-care locations within a hospital, the types of sample tests required for individual patients can vary widely. Thus, point-of-care systems generally offer a range of disposable devices configured to perform different sample tests, or combinations of such tests. For example, for blood analysis devices, in addition to traditional blood tests, including oxygen, carbon dioxide, pH, potassium, sodium, chloride, hematocrit, glucose, urea, creatinine and calcium, other tests may include, for example, prothrombin time (PT), activated clotting time (ACT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), troponin, creatine kinase MB (CKMB), and lactate. Although devices typically contain between one and ten tests, it will be appreciated by persons of ordinary skill in the art that any number of tests may be contained in a device.","To illustrate examples of the need for different devices, a patient suspected of arrhythmia may require a device with a test combination that includes a potassium test, whereas a patient suspected of diabetes may require a device with a test combination that includes a glucose test. An emergency room will need to have sufficient inventory of both types of devices to ensure the supply meets the anticipated workload, while seeking to limit the economic cost associated with carrying an unnecessarily high inventory. Consequently, efficient communication of inventory status is another reason for implementing a secure wireless connection with the hospital network.","A given hospital may use numerous different types of test devices and test instruments at multiple point-of-care testing locations within the hospital. These locations can include, for example, an emergency room (ER), a critical care unit (CCU), a pediatric intensive care unit (PICU), an intensive care unit (ICU), a renal dialysis unit (RDU), an operating room (OR), a cardiovascular operating room (CVOR), general wards (GW), and the like. Other non-hospital-based locations where medical care is delivered, include, for example, MASH units, nursing homes, and cruise, commercial, and military ships. For all of these, establishing efficient communication between the wireless analyzer\/point-of-care device and lab or computer that analyzes the data (e.g., LIS\/HIS) via a secure wireless network may be essential.","Thus, in creating and maintaining an environment suitable for point-of-care sample testing (e.g., when a nurse performs sample tests at, or proximate to, the bedside of the patient), many of the forgoing problems associated with delay due to insecure sample transportation to a hospital laboratory for analysis must be eliminated. These problems can be eliminated by implementing secure wireless communication between a wireless analyzer, such as a point-of-care medical instrument, and a hospital network system (e.g., LIS or HIS). In addition, establishing secure wireless communication between a wireless analyzer and a hospital network system is beneficial in maintaining patient confidentiality as well as the confidentiality of associated medical information.","The following patents relating to point-of-care sample testing provide additional background and are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties: DSDFRTFAto Lauks, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,096,669; WMBAPFTMAUTto Cozzette, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,200,051; MFAUMSDW-Uto Cozzette, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,112,455; S, MACIPFACIFSto Opalsky, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 6,438,498; MA-BSto Davis, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 6,379,883; AFAVCIFSAMOCSto Davis, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,447,440; RTUFSESSFQAOPBAIto Zelin, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,124,661; S-FICFECto Lauks, U.S. Pat. No. 4,954,087; RE, MOMAMOUSto Lauks, U.S. Pat. No. 4,933,048; and P-O-CIMSAMto Tirinato, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 7,263,501.","Oplasky, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 6,438,498 (the \u201c'498 patent\u201d), describes a computer system optionally including at least one infrared transmitter and\/or infrared receiver for either transmitting and\/or receiving infrared signals from a point-of-care blood testing instrument. Communications with such external devices\u2014for example, the other components of the system\u2014occur utilizing a communication port. For example, optical fibers and\/or electrical cables and\/or conductors and\/or optical communication (e.g., infrared, and the like) and\/or wireless communication (e.g., radio frequency (RF), and the like) can be used as the transport medium between an external device and a communication port. In addition to the standard components of the computer, the computer also optionally includes an infrared transmitter and\/or infrared receiver. Infrared transmitters are optionally utilized when the computer system may be used in conjunction with one or more of the processing components\/stations that transmits\/receives data via infrared signal transmission. Instead of utilizing an infrared transmitter or infrared receiver, the computer system optionally uses a low power radio transmitter and\/or a low power radio receiver. The low power radio transmitter transmits the signal for reception by components of the production process and receives signals from the components via the low power radio receiver. However, the '498 patent does not address the issue of establishing a secure Wi-Fi connection to a hospital network. Although infrared technology is still used in modern applications, it suffers from a number of limitations. A first limitation is the inability of an infrared signal to penetrate walls, thus restricting transmission to a single room. A second limitation is that many indoor environments can experience infrared background radiation (e.g., from sunlight and indoor lighting). This background radiation can act as noise to an infrared receiver, necessitating the use of higher power transmitters while further limiting the range.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,845,327 (the \u201c'327 patent\u201d) entitled P-O-CI-VBASto Lauks describes devices for performing in-vitro diagnostic chemical analyses at multiple distributed locations within a medical institution that involve a wireless network. However, the '327 patent does not address the issue of establishing a secure Wi-Fi connection to a hospital network.","U.S. Pat. No. 7,041,468 (the \u201c468 patent\u201d) entitled BGTAAMto Drucker, et al., describes a measurement module for glucose testing including a glucose testing measurement module housing, a test strip receptacle formed in the housing, and a connector portion formed in the housing and shaped to permit mechanical, removable attachment of the housing to a handheld processing device, handheld computer, PDA, mobile phone, or wireless processing device. Electronics are provided either in the measurement module or in the handheld processing device for determining the amount of glucose present in a sample of body fluid when a test strip is positioned in the receptacle and the fluid is placed on the test strip, and for communicating the glucose amount to the processing device via the connector portion. However, the '468 patent does not address the issue of establishing a secure Wi-Fi connection to a hospital network.","U.S. Pat. No. 7,235,213 (the \u201c'213 patent\u201d) entitled SFPBCAAMBCTto Mpock, et al., describes a system for performing a blood coagulation assay having (i) a reaction chamber; (ii) at least one movable member configured to mix contents of the reaction chamber; (iii) a sensor configured to detect the presence of a blood clot formed in the reaction chamber; and (iv) a timer that measures an interval of time between when a blood sample is received into the reaction chamber and when the sensor detects the blood clot formed in the reaction chamber. The timer is an instrument that would desirably be able to communicate patient results for a prothrombin time (PT) test securely to a hospital wireless network. However, the '213 patent does not address the issue of establishing a secure Wi-Fi connection to a hospital network.","Two popular types of wireless technology standards available are Bluetooth\u00ae and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineering's (IEEE) 802.11 standards (\u201cWi-Fi\u201d). Bluetooth\u00ae is an open specification delivering short-range radio communication between electrical devices that are equipped with Bluetooth\u00ae chips. When two Bluetooth\u00ae-enabled devices are within communication range (currently about 10 meters), they send each other a unique ID to identify one another. This ID is used to determine the type of information to be shared and the level of functionality that could occur between the two devices. However, Bluetooth\u00ae is not designed for long-distance communication, e.g., greater than about 10 meters, but rather as a means for providing connections between mobile computing devices or between a mobile computer device and a hub. To increase operating range, Wi-Fi, which has a larger operating range (currently up to about 300 meters) may be used. Wi-Fi is an extension of the wired Ethernet and uses the same principles as its wired counterpart, thus providing its users with high-speed, reliable connections to a network. Notably, U.S. Pat. No. 5,487,069 entitled WLAN to O'Sullivan, et al., the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference, describes a wireless LAN, a peer-to-peer wireless LAN, a wireless transceiver, and a method of transmitting data, all of which are capable of operating at frequencies in excess of 10 GHz and in multipath transmission environments. In the LANs, the mobile transceivers are each connected to, and powered by, a corresponding portable electronic device with computational ability.","With respect to the establishment of communication with a secure wireless network, it may be typical for the user of a wireless device to enter (e.g., via the combination of a keyboard, display and mouse, touch pad, touch screen, or equivalents) multiple networking parameters (e.g., IP address, network address, network name (also referred to as Service Set Identifier\u2014SSID), and network security settings such as authentication, encryption, network keys and username\/password combination) related to the wireless infrastructure and, in certain cases, also download network certificates to the device for authentication purposes.","Unfortunately, the existing methods of connection and authentication requiring input from the user can be both cumbersome and impractical. For example, the number of point-of-care instruments requiring a connection can typically range from 5 to 100 instruments, usually spread over multiple locations within a hospital (ER, ICU, OR, etc). Furthermore, these devices may not include a convenient input mechanism (e.g., a keyboard, actual or virtual, or touch pad). In general, point-of-care blood testing systems (e.g., glucose meters, coagulation meters, and multiple blood testing cartridge instruments) are designed as customized, proprietary devices without general computer features. Thus, the need exists for improved processes for securely networking one or more wireless analyzers to a hospital network without the need for an operator or user to engage in manual initiation steps on or through the analyzers or other instruments.","The present invention addresses the various limitations in the prior art by providing improved processes for securely networking one or more wireless analyzers with Wi-Fi without the need for an operator or user to engage in manual initiation steps on or through the instrument. In certain embodiments of the present invention, the one or more wireless analyzers are configured to perform as a Wireless Access Point (WAP) and the authentication process of the one or more analyzers for securely networking the one or more wireless analyzers with Wi-Fi may be initiated remotely via a network controller using a computing device (e.g., a computer) and a wireless network link. The present application discloses a system and method for initiating and maintaining secure wireless communication between a wireless analyzer and a hospital network (e.g., a hospital Wi-Fi network connected to an LIS, HIS and\/or other computer). The present disclosure addresses the various limitations in the prior art by providing a secure method for networking these wireless analyzers with a Wi-Fi network without the need for an operator or user to engage in manual initiation steps on or through the wireless analyzer. In the present invention, the one or more wireless analyzers are configured to perform as a WAP and the authentication process may be initiated remotely via a network controller using a computing device and a wireless network link.","In a first embodiment, the present invention is directed to a system for establishing a wireless network in point of care testing. The system comprises: (i) a wireless analyzer configured to authorize wireless access to the wireless analyzer, and read a patient health parameter; (ii) a computing device configured to obtain the wireless access with said wireless analyzer using a wireless network identifier, and communicate access credentials to said wireless analyzer via said wireless access; and (iii) a primary wireless network configured to communicate with said wireless analyzer, authenticate a secure connection with the wireless analyzer using the access credentials, and receive the patient health parameter via the secure connection.","In a second embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method of connecting a wireless analyzer to a primary wireless network. The method comprises the steps of: (i) receiving at the wireless analyzer a request for wireless access to the wireless analyzer from at least one computing device, wherein the wireless analyzer is configured to read a patient health parameter, and the at least one computing device is configured to use a wireless network identifier identifying the wireless analyzer to send the request for the wireless access; (ii) authorizing the wireless access to the wireless analyzer; (iii) receiving at the wireless analyzer access credentials for the primary wireless network from the at least one computing device; (iv) terminating the wireless access with the at least one computing device; and (v) authenticating a secure connection between the wireless analyzer and the primary wireless network using the access credentials.","In a third embodiment, the present invention is directed to a wireless analyzer enabled for secure communication with a primary wireless network comprising: (i) a display; (ii) an input device; (iii) a sensing apparatus for detecting a patient health parameter; (iv) an antenna; (v) a wireless access point (WAP) module configured to establish a wireless connection with the wireless analyzer from a computing device using a wireless network identifier, and obtain at least one access credential for the primary wireless network from the computing device; and (vi) a host processor configured to authenticate a secure wireless connection with the primary wireless network using the at least one access credential.","In a fourth embodiment, the present invention is directed to a computer program product comprising a computer usable storage medium having readable program code embodied in the storage medium. The computer program product includes at least one component operable to: (i) receive at a wireless analyzer a request for wireless access to the wireless analyzer from at least one computing device, wherein the wireless analyzer is configured to read a patient health parameter, and the at least one computing device is configured to use a wireless network identifier identifying the wireless analyzer to send the request for the wireless access; (ii) authorize the wireless access to the wireless analyzer; (iii) receive at the wireless analyzer access credentials for a primary wireless network from the at least one computing device; (iv) terminate the wireless access with the at least one computing device; and (v) authenticate a secure connection between the wireless analyzer and the primary wireless network using the access credentials.","The wireless analyzer may be further configured to perform a function via said primary wireless network comprising: (i) communicating location; (ii) receiving and displaying a custom message; (iii) communicating and installing software updates; (iv) communicating print requests with a printer in communication with said primary wireless network; (v) communicating battery level; (vi) communicating dynamic display information with a computer in communication with said primary wireless network; (vii) synchronizing time with a computer in communication with said primary wireless network; (viii) provide network access to another wireless analyzer; or (ix) combinations thereof.","In some embodiments, the secure connection comprises a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) connection, a Transport Layer Security (TLS) connection, an SSL\/TLS connection, or combinations thereof.","In some embodiments, the primary wireless network may comprise a hospital wireless network in communication with a laboratory information system and\/or hospital information system.","In some embodiments, a wireless analyzer may communicate blood test, e.g. potassium, glucose, prothrombin time, patient data between a wireless analyzer and said primary wireless network. The wireless analyzer may further receive a blood testing cartridge with at least one sensor, prothrombin time test device, and\/or a glucose test strip.","In some embodiments, a wireless analyzer may receive data communicated from the primary wireless network, wherein the data comprises: (i) a software upgrade; (ii) an instrument calibration coefficient; (iii) an instrument self-validation protocol; (iv) an instrument self-testing protocol; or (v) a combinations thereof.","The term \u201caccess credentials,\u201d as used herein, refers to any information required to gain access to a secure network, including, but not limited to, wireless settings, network access certificates, encryption keys, and authentication credentials.","The terms \u201ccommunicate\u201d and \u201ccommunicating,\u201d as used herein, refers to bi-directional transmitting, or otherwise conveying, data from a source to a destination and delivering data to a communications medium, system, channel, network, device, wire, cable, fiber, circuit, and\/or link to be conveyed to a destination.","The terms \u201ccoupled,\u201d \u201ccoupled to,\u201d and \u201ccoupled with,\u201d as used herein, each refer to a relationship between or among two or more devices, apparatus, files, circuits, elements, functions, operations, processes, programs, media, components, networks, systems, subsystems, and\/or means, constituting any one or more of (i) a connection, whether direct or through one or more other devices, apparatus, files, circuits, elements, functions, operations, processes, programs, media, components, networks, systems, subsystems, or means; (ii) a communications relationship, whether direct or through one or more other devices, apparatus, files, circuits, elements, functions, operations, processes, programs, media, components, networks, systems, subsystems, or means; and\/or (iii) a functional relationship in which the operation of any one or more devices, apparatus, files, circuits, elements, functions, operations, processes, programs, media, components, networks, systems, subsystems, or means depends, in whole or in part, on the operation of any one or more others thereof.","The term \u201cdatabase,\u201d as used herein, refers to an organized body of related data, regardless of the manner in which the data or the organized body thereof is represented. For example, the organized body of related data may be in the form of one or more of a table, a map, a grid, a packet, a datagram, a frame, a file, an e-mail, a message, a document, a report, a list, or in any other form.","The terms \u201cEAP\u201d and \u201cEAP-TLS\u201d, as used herein, each refer to a universal authentication framework used in wireless networks. EAP (Extensible Authentication Protocol) refers to an authentication framework frequently used in wireless networks and Point-to-Point connections\u2014defined in RFC 3748 and updated by RFC 5247. EAP-TLS (Extensible Authentication Protocol-Transport Layer Security) refers to a standard supported in wireless communications to secure communications using public key infrastructure (typically using certificates).","The term \u201chealth-care data\u201d, as used herein, refers to any data representing a health parameter, physiological parameter, or other patient data generated, collected, or provided by a wireless analyzer.","The term \u201cnetwork\u201d, as used herein, refers to both networks and inter-networks of all kinds, including the Internet, but is not limited to any particular network or inter-network.","The term \u201cportable device\u201d, as used herein, refers to a device capable of being carried by or on a person, including without limitation, wireless analyzer, a cellular telephone, a personal digital assistant (\u201cPDA\u201d), a Blackberry\u00ae device, a radio, a television, a game system, a notebook computer, a laptop\/desktop computer, a GPS device, a personal audio device (such as an MP3 player or an iPod\u2122 device), a DVD player, a two-way radio, a personal communications device, a telematics device, a remote control device, a wireless headset, a wristwatch, a portable data storage device (e.g., Thumb\u2122 drive), a camera, or a recorder, as well as any devices combining any of the foregoing or their functions.","The term \u201cprocessor\u201d, as used herein, refers to processing devices, apparatus, programs, circuits, components, systems, and subsystems, whether implemented in hardware, tangibly embodied software, or both, and whether or not programmable. The term \u201cprocessor\u201d as used herein includes, but is not limited to, one or more computers, hardwired circuits, signal modifying devices and systems, devices and machines for controlling systems, central processing units, programmable devices and systems, field-programmable gate arrays, application-specific integrated circuits, systems on a chip, systems comprising discrete elements and\/or circuits, state machines, virtual machines, data processors, processing facilities, and combinations of any of the foregoing.","The terms \u201cPre-Shared Key\u201d and \u201cPSK,\u201d as used herein, refers to a shared secret password between a wireless device and a network. For example, a secure network often requires a PSK before granting a wireless device access into the network.","The term \u201cRC4,\u201d as used herein, refers to a software stream cipher used in protocols such as SSL and WEP.","The terms \u201cService Set Identifier\u201d and \u201cSSID,\u201d as used herein, refers to a name that identifies a particular wireless local area network (WLAN)","The terms \u201cTemporal Key Integrity Protocol\u201d and \u201cTKIP,\u201d as used herein, refers to a security protocol for wireless networking. TKIP security protocol allows wireless devices and a network exchange messages in a secure manner (e.g., message integrity check, protects against attacks). TKIP security protocol may use RC4 as an encryption method.","The terms \u201cWireless Access Point\u201d and \u201cWAP,\u201d as used herein, refers to a device that allows wireless devices to connect to a wired network using Wi-Fi, Bluetooth\u00ae or related standards","The term \u201cWPA,\u201d as used herein, refers to WPA-Personal and\/or WPA-Enterprise. WPA-Personal typically uses PSK for encryption and TKIP for security whereas WPA-Enterprise typically uses TKIP for security with EAP.","The term \u201cWPA2,\u201d as used herein, refers to WPA2-Personal and\/or WPA2-Enterprise. WPA2-Personal typically uses AES encryption and PSK for security, whereas WPA2-Enterprise typically uses AES encryption and EAP for security.","The term \u201cwireless analyzer,\u201d as used herein, refers to a wireless enabled device enabled to read at least one patient health parameter and may include, but is not limited to: point-of-care test instruments; the i-STAT\u00ae portable blood analysis system; and other wireless-enabled portable blood analysis instruments, including (i) ones that receive a blood testing cartridge with at least one sensor; (ii) ones in which the portable blood analysis instrument is a glucose meter and receives a glucose test strip; and (iii) ones in which the portable blood analysis instrument is a blood coagulation meter and receives a prothrombin time-test device.","The terms \u201ca wireless analyzer\u201d or \u201cwireless analyzer,\u201d as used herein, refers to one or more wireless analyzers and should not be construed to only mean a single wireless analyzer.","The secure wireless system of the present invention may be coupled to, or integrated with, a wireless analyzer. The present invention will be described primarily in the context of wireless analyzers, including, for example, the i-STAT\u00ae portable blood analysis system, a type of point-of-care device; however, it should be appreciated that a person having ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that the present application can be applied to any portable device, including any wireless-enabled, processor-based, portable device.","To enable wireless communication, a WAP module and\/or a wireless module may be embedded within or incorporated with an analyzer to create a wireless analyzer that may enable the wireless analyzer to perform as a WAP and wirelessly communicate test results from the wireless analyzer to a database, central data station and\/or primary wireless network using a variety of wireless connectivity methods within the Wi-Fi standard, e.g., via the IEEE 802.11 standard. A wireless module and an access point may be configured with a PSK, AES, EAP, and\/or TKIP. Regardless of the type of WAP module and\/or wireless module used in the wireless analyzer, the wireless analyzer may offer the user the option to activate or deactivate (e.g., turn on\/off) the WAP module and\/or the wireless module or wireless functionality. Furthermore, the wireless analyzer may be in communication with a barcode reader using either the wireless module or the serial port. Here the barcode reader can be used to scan a barcode on the test device, e.g. a blood testing cartridge where the code identifies the cartridge type, expiration date etc., scan a barcode on a patient's wrist, scan a barcode on the badge of a user, e.g. nurse and physician, and the like.","A primary purpose of enabling the wireless analyzer to perform as a WAP is to enable secure communication of access credentials from a computing device to the wireless analyzer so that the wireless analyzer may obtain authentication and gain access to a hospital wireless network (e.g., via Wi-Fi-IEEE 802.11), e.g., a primary wireless network. Generally speaking, Network Access Control (NAC) systems use various methods of access credentials and access authentication methods, including security certificates. Such certificate-based authentication systems rely on trusted certificate authorities for their credibility. For example, EAP-Transport Layer Security (EAP-TLS) is a widely used standard for wireless access authentication. When EAP-TLS is used with certificates, both the client and the server may use one or more certificates to verify the identities of each party. In some embodiments, PEAP-EAP-MS-CHAPv2 may be used as the authentication method. Specifically, PEAP-EAP-MS-CHAPv2 is a password-based user authentication method that uses TLS with server certificates. During PEAP-EAP-MS-CHAPv2 authentication, the computing device supplies a certificate to validate its identity to the wireless analyzer. Alternatively, PEAP-EAP-TLS, which provides strong security and uses a PKI with certificates, may be used. The wireless analyzer may also be enabled to support: WEP 64, WEP 128, WEP with transactional keys, WPA1 with pre-shared keys, WPA2 with pre-shared keys, EAP-TLS, EAP-TTLS, PEAP-MSCHAP.","In some embodiments, SSL, TLS, PSK, WiFi Protected Access (WPA), WPA1, WPA2, and\/or WPA-Enterprise (WPA-802.1x) systems may be used to create the secured communication path between the computing device and the wireless analyzer. In accordance with aspects of the invention, SSL, TLS, PSK, WPA, WPA1, WPA2, and\/or WPA-Enterprise (WPA-802.1x) protocols provide a secure digital communication link between the computing device comprising access credentials and the wireless analyzer. Similarly, SSL, TLS, PSK, WPA, WPA1, WPA2, and\/or WPA-Enterprise (WPA-802.1x) secured communication technology may be further used to provide secure Web browsing to the wireless analyzer once a connection has been established between the wireless analyzer and a secure Wi-Fi network.","The present invention may be embodied as a system, method or computer program product. The present invention may take the form of a hardware embodiment, a software embodiment or a combination of software and hardware. Furthermore, the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible storage of expression having computer-usable program code embodied in the medium. The computer-usable or computer-readable medium may be any medium that can contain, store, or communicate, for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.","Any combination of one or more computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive list) of the computer readable storage medium would include the following: an electrical connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM), an optical storage device, a magnetic storage device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document, a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain, or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a ","b":["10","10","12","12","14","14","20","22","24","26","14"]},"The wireless analyzer  may be in communication with the external I\/O device\/resource  and the storage system B. The I\/O device  can comprise any device that enables an individual to interact with the wireless analyzer  (e.g., user interface) or any device that enables the wireless analyzer  to communicate with one or more other wireless analyzers using any type of communications link.","The host processor  executes computer program code (e.g., program control ), which can be stored in the memory A and\/or the storage system B. While executing the computer program code, the host processor  can read and\/or write data to\/from memory A, storage system B, and\/or I\/O interface . The program code executes the processes of the invention such as, for example, translating a text-based command assigned to a service command configured to control a service, into the service command.","The wireless analyzer  may include a WAP module , a Wireless module , and a Testing module  that may be portions of the computer program code and\/or implemented as hardware components. The WAP module , the Wireless module , and the Testing module  perform the processes of the invention, for example, the WAP module , the Wireless module , and the Testing module  may be configured to impart the functionality of the wireless analyzer  including: (i) as a WAP including the functionality of performing as a router during wireless communication, (ii) as a transceiver for communicating data through a wireless network, and (iii) as a analyzer for at least one patient health parameter, as described in detail below, and each can be its own dedicated special processor or combination thereof. Additionally the wireless analyzer  may include an external or internal antenna  for sending and\/or receiving data wirelessly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["b ","a","b"],"b":["100","102","14","108","102","102","100"]},"The system may comprise a wireless analyzer , a computing device , (e.g., a computer) enabled to communicate with the wireless analyzer  using a wireless network , and a primary wireless network . The primary wireless network  may comprise, for example, an authentication server , laboratory information systems (LIS) and\/or hospital information systems (HIS) , hospital wireless access points A, B, and a printer\/printer server . Primary wireless network  may also be in communication with a database and\/or a central data station (CDS)  used to store data and\/or run data management software. Authentication server  may be responsible for verifying the access credentials (e.g., certificates) of a wireless analyzer  and permitting, if the access credentials are valid, access to one or more hospital networks, systems, and computers (e.g., one or more LIS\/HIS networks , databases, printers , etc.) in communication with the primary wireless network . Authentication server  may use, for example, RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial In User Service) functionality. RADIUS is a networking protocol for providing centralized authentication and may be used to authorize wireless analyzer's  access to the primary wireless network . The access points A, B may transfer the authentication responsibility to RADIUS when running in EAP mode. The secure connection  may also be used to communicate and update user\/patient lists and\/or user\/patient information between the wireless analyzer  and central data station  and\/or LIS\/HIS networks  via the primary wireless network . The primary wireless network  may also be in communication with one or more printers , allowing a wireless analyzer  to easily print data, results and other reports using printer .","For example, one or more LIS\/HIS networks  may receive health-care data and\/or other measurement data from the wireless analyzer  and manipulate the data to generate results and\/or values that provide patient state of health parameters to a patient caretaker (e.g., signs of anemia, dehydration, sepsis, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, diabetes, hypoxia, renal insufficiency and the like). The one or more hospital wireless access points A, B are responsible for sending and receiving data between the primary wireless network  and a wireless analyzer  (e.g., via Wi-Fi\/IEEE 802.11).","To securely transmit healthcare data from the wireless analyzer  to the primary wireless network , a wireless analyzer  is configured to function as a WAP to obtain access credentials to the primary network . For example, the WAP module  may be configured to enable the wireless analyzer  to function as a WAP by broadcasting  an SSID and\/or by being enabled to receive an SSID and establish a wireless network . The established wireless network  enables the computing device  to provide the wireless analyzer  with one or more access credentials for the primary wireless network . The computing device , which is enabled to communicate wirelessly, may include the one or more access credentials and, in certain embodiments, computing device  may generate and provide one or more dynamic authentication credentials that change at given time intervals. For example, RSA, the security division of EMC Corporation (http:\/\/www.rsa.com\/node.aspx?id=1156), provides additional suitable secure data, compliance, SIM, SEM, SIEM, PCI, consumer identity, two-factor authentication, and other security solutions that may be incorporated with computing device .","In accordance with aspects of the invention, as a result of the computing device  being wirelessly connected to the wireless analyzer  over the wireless network , the computing device  may communicate  the one or more access credentials to the wireless analyzer  using a secure connection over the wireless network . For example, prior to communicating  the access credentials, the computing device  may verify the identity of the wireless analyzer  using identifiers (e.g., preset configurations, device name, device ID, previous communications, etc.). The secure connection over the wireless network  is temporary and used primarily for the purpose of initiating a connection between the wireless analyzer  and the primary network . The secure wireless connection between the computing device  and the wireless analyzer  may be a secure connection (e.g., SSL, TLS, SSL\/TLS, PSK, WPA, WPA1, WPA2, WPA-Enterprise (WPA-802.1x), and\/or any other cryptographic or encryption protocol connection). In certain embodiments, the secure wireless connection between the computing device  and the wireless analyzer  may be Bluetooth\u00ae. The access credentials from the computing device  may be communicated to the wireless analyzer  via the secure wireless connection and, once the transfer is completed, the secure wireless connection may be closed.","Using one or more access credentials received from computing device , the wireless analyzer  may authenticate (preferably automatically authenticate) a secure connection  between the wireless analyzer  and the primary wireless network  allowing the wireless analyzer  to operate securely within the hospital Wi-Fi network . During this period, data may be communicated between the wireless analyzer , the primary wireless network , the one or more LIS\/HIS Networks , and\/or any other computer\/network\/system in communication with the primary wireless network . Termination of the secure connection  may be set in accordance with the user's preferences. For example, termination may require the user to prompt for a termination (e.g., a log-out button); termination may occur automatically once a predetermined time duration has elapsed (e.g., measured from connection time); and\/or the connection may time out and terminate due to inactivity (e.g., if data transfer, input or measurement has not occurred within a set time period). In the event of inactivity, a warning or other indicator may be displayed allowing the user to cancel the termination and maintain communication. Failure to respond to the warning or other indicator within a preset period of time (e.g., 60 seconds) may lead to immediate termination of the connection.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["c ","b ","a ","c","b. "],"b":["102","108","100","100","104","108","102","104"]},"As indicated above, the primary wireless network  may be a hospital wireless network that may be in communication with an LIS, HIS, database, and\/or other services or networks. In some embodiments, this secure wireless communication system may be used for a number of purposes, including, but not limited to, transmitting blood analysis patient data (both the blood test results and patient identification) from the wireless analyzer  to the LIS by way of the primary wireless network . In some embodiments, the wireless analyzer  can also transmit other data including, but not limited to, time and date, user identification, instrument calibration coefficients, instrument self-validation test results, instrument self-testing results, entered patient information (e.g., patient name or associated patient number, age, sex, allergies, patient temperature, symptoms, etc.), or combinations thereof.","Aspects of the present invention are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams of methods, apparatus (systems) and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and\/or block diagrams, can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions, which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus, create means for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.","These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function\/act specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer, other programmable data processing apparatus, or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer, other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions, which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions\/acts specified in the flowchart and\/or block diagram block or blocks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIGS. 2 and 3","FIGS. 2 and 3","FIGS. 1"],"i":["a","b","c","a","b","c"],"b":["1","1","4","4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["201","20","50"],"i":"a"},"Initiation  may be prompted by the user (e.g., using a \u201clog-on\u201d or \u201cconnect\u201d button\/key) or by an \u201cautorun\u201d process that executes automatically when the wireless analyzer is activated. The initiation  may comprise the wireless analyzer using WAP hardware and\/or software (e.g., the WAP module ) to broadcast a WiFi SSID that is searchable as an available WiFi network  by a WiFi enabled computing device to establish a secure wireless connection (e.g., using SSL, TLS, PSK, WPA, WPA1, WPA2, WPA-Enterprise (WPA-802.1x), or any other cryptographic or encryption protocol connection) between the wireless analyzer and the computing device for communication of, for example, one or more primary wireless network access credentials. In embodiments, the wireless analyzer may not broadcast the WiFi SSID.","In embodiments, the initiation  may comprise the wireless analyzer using WAP hardware and\/or software to receive a request to establish a wireless connection using the WiFi SSID from the computing device. For example, the WiFi SSID may be received by the computing device via the broadcast of the WiFi SSID from the wireless analyzer and\/or input into the computing device (e.g., a user may input the WiFi SSID or a server may present the WiFi SSID to the computing device). Subsequently, the computing device may use the WiFi SSID to communicate a request for wireless connection to the wireless analyzer in order to establish a wireless connection with the wireless analyzer. In accordance with aspects of the invention, the WiFi SSID may be a known SSID, a SSID comprised from a unique name, or dynamically generated. The unique name for the SSID may be comprised of a media access control (MAC) address of the wireless analyzer, a serial number of the wireless analyzer, or any combination thereof.","In embodiments, the initiation  may comprise the wireless analyzer using WAP hardware and\/or software to function as a dynamic host configuration protocol (DHCP) server. For example, the wireless analyzer may be configured automatically to wirelessly communicate with the computing device, eliminating the need for intervention by a network administrator. In accordance with aspects of the invention, the wireless analyzer may be configured to send network IP parameters to the computing device, and the computing device may be configured to receive the network IP parameters. The network IP parameters may comprise, for example, IP address, subnet mask, gateway, and domain name system (DNS). The network IP parameters may then be used subsequently by the computing device to establish the secure wireless connection with the wireless analyzer.","In embodiments, the computing device may create, or prepare to communicate, primary wireless network access credentials (e.g., a session encryption key) . For added security, the wireless network access credentials would typically comprise a random number, or an alphanumeric string, created for a single session. Once communication between the computing device and wireless analyzer has been established , using public key cryptography and\/or encryptology, the computing device may securely communicate the session key to the wireless analyzer using the wireless network . For example, the computing device may communicate the session key to the wireless analyzer using simple network management protocol (SNMP). The session encryption key, which is known by the wireless analyzer, the computing device and the primary wireless network, may be used to encrypt any digital traffic sent between the devices (e.g., between the primary wireless network and wireless analyzer, however it may also be used to encrypt communication between the wireless analyzer and computing device). As the session encryption key is preferably a symmetric encryption key, the wireless analyzer may then use that same session key to decrypt digital traffic received from the primary wireless network.","At some point during the communication between the wireless analyzer and the computing device , the computing device may determine that the wireless analyzer should be provided with the requested access credentials for primary wireless network access, the computing device may then use the secure connection to transmit the primary network access credentials to the wireless analyzer . The computing device may determine whether the wireless analyzer should be provided with network access  based on, for example, certain credentials (e.g., user\/device identification, password, etc.) or may be set to automatically provide network access once secure communication has been established  between the computing device and wireless analyzer. Communication  between the computing device and wireless analyzer may continue until (i) a requested access credential has been communicated to the wireless analyzer , (ii) the session has terminated , or (iii) a session time-out flag  has been indicated.","A primary objective of the wireless connection is to provide a secure, encrypted, virtual, digital tunnel between the computing device and the wireless analyzer, allowing for safe transmission of primary network access credentials. The wireless analyzer may communicate these primary wireless network access credentials to the primary wireless network  using, for example, an IEEE-802.11 connection. The primary wireless network access credentials are used to establish a secure communication connection  (e.g., a secure IEEE-802.11 connection) between the wireless analyzer and the primary network (e.g., wireless hospital network) and to exchange secure communications and\/or transfers  using said secure connection until the session has (i) terminated  or (ii) a session time-out flag  has been indicated. For example, the wireless analyzer may use the secure communication connection (e.g., TLS, SSL, or other encryption methods using, for example, primary network access credentials) to communicate blood analysis patient data with said primary wireless network. Blood analysis patient data may include, for example, patient blood test results such as analyte concentrations, time and date of test, patient identification and user identification. The entire initiation and connection process may be done automatically without the need for the wireless analyzer user to perform any substantive operations, optionally initiating the entire process with a simple \u201cactivate\u201d instruction.","Once a wireless analyzer has obtained the necessary access credentials to establish secure communication with a primary network, the wireless analyzer may repeatedly access said primarily wireless network without requiring further communication via the wireless network unless the access credentials are no longer valid or unavailable. For example, if a primary wireless network requires certain access credentials (e.g., \u201cCertificate A\u201d), once the wireless analyzer has obtained Certificate A, the wireless analyzer may freely access the primary wireless network without needing to communicate with a computing device via the wireless network. However, if, for whatever reason, the primary wireless network's security settings are adjusted to require different access credentials (e.g., \u201cCertificate B\u201d), the wireless analyzer may need to communicate with a computing device via the wireless network to obtain Certificate B. The need to communicate with the computing device via the wireless network may also arise, for example, in instances where the wireless analyzer's memory has been erased (voluntarily or involuntarily), become corrupt, or the wireless analyzer is attempting to connect to a different primary wireless network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","304","306","308","314","304","314","310","312"]},"If a configured access point is found, the wireless analyzer may attempt to connect to the access point  using the parameters supplied in the access point configuration. If more than one configured access point is found , the wireless analyzer may attempt to communicate with the access point having the strongest signal first  (e.g., the access point having the strongest received signal strength indicator (RSSI)). The wireless analyzer may be further enabled to read the signal strength (e.g., RSSI) of the connection between the access point and the wireless module (e.g., an Ezurio wireless module) using either an internal or external antenna. The signal strength may be further displayed on the screen of the wireless analyzer to provide the user with an indication of the signal strength (e.g., a series of bars). If this communication attempt fails, communication with the second strongest configured access point may be attempted. If this communication attempt also fails, communication with the third strongest configured access point may be attempted and so on until all configured access points have been exhausted or a connection has been established. If all access points have been exhausted, the wireless analyzer may return to the sleep\/power-save mode cycle  described above. Once the wireless analyzer has connected  with an access point, the wireless analyzer may exchange data and\/or secure communications with the primary network (e.g., wireless hospital network)  until the session has either terminated  or a time-out flag  has been indicated. This initiation and connection process may be done automatically without the need for the wireless analyzer user to perform any substantive operations, optionally initiating the entire process with a simple \u201cactivate\u201d or \u201cconnect\u201d instruction. Furthermore, once communication between the wireless analyzer and primary wireless network is established , the wireless analyzer may allow roaming between access points in the event of either low signal-to-noise (SNR) or low received signal strength indicator (RSSI) conditions being detected .","In addition to using the secure connection to communicate health-care data, the secure connection and\/or process may be used to update firmware, software and\/or patches on the wireless analyzer. A configuration server, which would be in communication with, or incorporated into, the primary wireless network, may be a PC application capable of communicating new configuration files, patches, and\/or software or software updates to remote modules (e.g., wireless analyzers). For example, the configuration server may be implemented as a Java application, which may be run under Linux, Windows, or another operating system. Each file of transactional keys may be allocated a version number (e.g., a 16-bit CRC of the contents of the configuration file) which may be stored in the module when the transactional key file is transferred and adopted by the module.","For example, when a remote module connects to the primary wireless server, the module version number may be compared to the latest version number available for download. If the version number in the module is different from the latest version available, the more recent configuration file is downloaded and\/or installed to the module. The wireless analyzer may also be enabled to update (e.g., download and install) firmware, software and\/or patches from another wireless analyzer using wireless communication (e.g., Wi-Fi, RFID, Bluetooth\u00ae, etc.).","In addition to software upgrades, the wireless analyzer may also communicate data via said primary wireless network, e.g., help files, instrument calibration coefficients, user customizations, patient customizations, language packs, instrument self-validation protocols, value assignment sheets for control fluids, instrument self-testing protocols, usage statistics, non-usage statistics, analyzer errors, CLEW (coefficients, limits & extrapolation windows), operator qualifications, and operator monitoring. In certain embodiments, the primary wireless network may poll a wireless analyzer within range to check parameters such as battery level and\/or battery state of charge, presence in the Wi-Fi zone, or dynamic location of a wireless analyzer (e.g., location tracking).","The wireless analyzer may further include a disable\/lock mechanism to ensure unauthorized personal do not tamper with the wireless analyzer. The disable\/lock mechanism may be enabled\/disabled via the secure network, via the wireless analyzer's input device (e.g., keyboard, keypad, touch screen, etc.) or automatically if the wireless analyzer has been idle for a preset period of time. The wireless analyzer may be enabled to automatically lock\/disable if the wireless analyzer is out of range, meaning, for example, the wireless analyzer is unable to locate any primary wireless network access points. In this situation, the wireless analyzer may remain locked until the device is unlocked by the user or via the primary wireless network. In any of these situations, to unlock the wireless analyzer, the wireless analyzer, or computer in communication with the primary wireless network, may require, for example, the user to enter a username, password, and\/or biometric identification.","In some embodiments, as depicted in and , it may be favorable to provide a view of the wireless analyzer  screen  on a computer  via a secure connection to the primary wireless network . For example, a point of care coordinator (POCC)  or technical support person may wish to view a screen shot  of the wireless analyzer's  screen  (or similar summary of information from analyzer ), e.g., as either a still-shot or dynamically on computer  connected to the primary wireless network . This configuration would be useful for both remote patient monitoring by a third parties and\/or providing technical assistance in the event of malfunction. To provide further functionality and control, the POCC  and\/or technical support person may be further able to control a desired wireless analyzer  using the computer  connected to the primary wireless network . In this situation, a wireless analyzer control device  may be provided to the POCC  and\/or technical support person enabling him or her to remotely control the desired wireless analyzer . This may be accomplished, for example, by providing a virtual wireless analyzer controller display  on the computer screen  to mimic the buttons\/inputs  on the physical wireless analyzer .","Additionally, the POCC  may be alerted via computer , for example: when a user incorrectly uses a wireless analyzer ; when battery level has dropped to a predetermined level; when wireless analyzer  deviates from normal results; when an wireless analyzer  is dropped or physically damaged (e.g., using shock\/trauma sensing circuits); and\/or when a wireless analyzer  self-check fails or fails to boot\/initiate\/activate. Similarly, the wireless analyzer may automatically wake up and contact the data manager within programmable intervals from, for example, 10 minutes to 24 hours.","Referring now to , wireless analyzers A, B, C, D in communication with the primary wireless network  may be enabled act as a hub, or \u201chot spot\u201d or router, for a another wireless analyzer E (e.g., a near-by wireless analyzer that is unable to locate and\/or detect an access point signal). When a wireless analyzer A is acting as a router, the wireless analyzer A in communication with the primary wireless network  may wirelessly communicate (e.g., Wi-Fi, RFID, Bluetooth\u00ae, etc.) with another wireless analyzer E and relay any information between the wireless analyzer E and the primary wireless network . Essentially, wireless analyzer E communicates with the primary wireless network  using wireless analyzer A as a node.","The computer  connected to the primary wireless network may even allow custom messages (e.g., specialized training and\/or other information) to be displayed on an analyzer information screen . This information could be emergency information or specific training information for only a particular subset of the analyzer population. For example, if a certain subset of patients may be impacted by a hospital malfunction or event, messages may be sent to those patients' wireless analyzers , via the primary wireless network , notifying health-care providers of the appropriate steps to take (e.g., evacuation, relocation, etc.). A custom message may be sent to a wireless analyzer  based on the physical location of the wireless analyzer  using device tracking techniques (discussed in greater detail below). A network  linking the wireless analyzers  would also permit standardization of information. For example, each wireless analyzer  may synchronize the time with the primary network  server computer clock or atomic clock. Standardization of the clocks would eliminate inaccurate time entries when reporting results, eliminate backdating the analyzer, and ensure an accurate time should a wireless analyzer momentarily lose power (e.g., due to battery failure or depletion).","In another embodiment, the computer  connected to the primary wireless network  may be enabled to track and report the status and location of a wireless analyzer  and\/or other device on the primary wireless network. The portable nature of the wireless analyzer makes it easy to misplace, lose and\/or steal. Furthermore, the capital cost associated with a wireless analyzer may be high. Thus, a system, as disclosed herein, for locating and tracking said wireless analyzer  may reduce costs associated with replacement due to misplacement, loss, or theft.","The portable wireless analyzer  may be tracked in a number of ways. For example, in some embodiments, the wireless analyzer  may be enabled to include and perform GPS and\/or other triangulation techniques. Triangulation is a process by which the location of a portable device can be determined by measuring either the radial distance or the direction of the received signal from two or more different points. GPS, an advanced form of triangulation, currently uses 24 orbiting satellites to pinpoint the geographic location or a device. Currently, the location accuracy range is anywhere from 100 to 10 meters for most equipment. However, accuracy can be pinpointed to within one meter with special military-approved equipment.","In lieu of triangulation, location can be calculated based on the principle of the time difference between the receipt of signals from a pair of radio transmitters (access points). A given constant time difference between the signals from the two stations can be represented by a hyperbolic line of position (LOP). If the positions of the two synchronized access points are known, the position of the wireless analyzer can be determined as being somewhere on a particular hyperbolic curve where the time difference between the received signals is constant. Under ideal conditions, this is proportionally equivalent to the difference of the distances between the receiver and each of the two stations. A similar system was used by LORAN (Long Range Navigation), a terrestrial radio navigation system using low frequency radio transmitters in multiple deployments (multilateration) to determine the location and speed of the receiver.","More specifically, RFID may be used to track and locate a wireless analyzer. RFID is generally divided into Active and Passive technologies. Active RFID devices are typically battery powered devices typically employing some silicon logic to provide autonomous date transmission and may even incorporate programmable data storage to hold, for example, pricing, routing or other data in the device. Passive technologies are often divided into fully passive and battery assisted passive devices. These passive devices are generally used in poll\/response systems and require a stimulus to provide a response. Inventory monitoring, retail items and medical supplies alike are generally tracked by passive RFID means. The direction taken by the real time location services (RTLS) market has been to universally use active RFID for tags and devices. There are two general approaches to RTLS: 1) Proprietary tags that interact with tracking hardware\/software or middleware that interfaces with enterprise software; and 2) Fully associated IEEE-802.11 devices (tags, PDAs, laptop computer, etc.) that communicate with location appliance hardware\/software or middleware to interface with enterprise software.","Proprietary tags may be divided into custom infrastructure and general infrastructure based on IEEE-802.11 wireless. Systems based on tag communication at 433 MHz, 900 MHz, infrared, and sonic solutions are typically closed systems using a common vendor for supplying tags, tag receivers, possibly concentrators, and middleware. This type of system is exemplified by vendors such as: Radiance, Awarepoint, Radarfind, and Versas. For example, Versas uses a tag that communicates via IEEE-802.11 but only uses the data entry point from the network. Further refinement of the location may be accomplished by transmitting payload data identifying received data from IR emitters liberally located in the area of interest. In the cases mentioned above, an enterprise WLAN may be utilized as the final link from the enterprise software or vendors middleware to the enterprise software.","A IEEE-802.11x system involves at least one radio device installed within the analyzer. Two possible RTLS structures and protocols for active location service include ISO-246730 based service and generic IEEE-802.11 b\/g service. However, both services may be based on IEEE-802.11b\/g and both may have some measure of support in the location field. Fully Associated IEEE-802.11 tags resemble a normal IEEE-802.11 connection and may also track portable devices. For example, WhereNet has announced a tag that may work as either IEEE-802.11(b) or ISO-24730. G2 Microsystems, manufacturer of the chip used by WhereNet, offers a low-power system-on-a-chip and related module that enables Wi-Fi to be used in a wider range of applications that use smaller batteries, like remote controls and asset tracking tags. For example, G2 Microsystems produces the G2C547 chip, a combination IEEE-802.11 and ISO-24730 radio chip that may be integrated with a portable device to enable device tracking.","The ISO-24730 location implementation typically centers on a hardware subsystem that communicates with cooperative access points to gather data about the message arrival time of \u201cbeacon\u201d transmissions from the tag or signal strength reported by the tag. The beacon may be a multicast message where the transmitter may not be required to be associated with any access point. In operation, the access point records the time of arrival of the message and the payload reports the signal strength. These values may be forwarded to the location services hardware and an attempt may be made to triangulate the tag\/emitter relative to the access points. Accuracy is routinely measured within 3 meters. Furthermore, the position of the wireless analyzer may be displayed by vendor or enterprise software and, in the case of higher functionality software, may be overlaid on a map of the facility.","The access point may be part of an Extended Service Set (ESS) such that the broadcast Service Set Identifier (SSID) would not be unique to a particular access point. Access points that are a collection of Basic Service Set (BSS) devices could each have a unique SSID.","Examining the transactions that occur within a normal IEEE-802.11 connection reveals that the wireless analyzer's integrated mobile radio, when fully associated with an access point, knows the Access point ID (i.e., the MAC address) of the access point. This information, if contained in the payload of transmission from an analyzer, could uniquely identify the access point used in the transaction. Thus, data manager software receiving results from an analyzer via wireless link may be able to identify the MAC address of an access point. To provide the location of the portable device, the data manager software may also provide a means of associating MAC address to physical locations in, for example, a hospital.","Therefore, it is possible to provide a \u201cFind Me\u201d location service by providing or using an existing IEEE-802.11 radio in the wireless analyzer hardware. To support this location service, the radio device should be chosen to provide a low level access Application Programming Interface (API) to permit the Access Point ID (MAC Address) to be known and included in the payload transmitted by the analyzer. This mode typically requires that the analyzer be fully associated with an access point in a normal 802.11 mode while also providing the capability to implement a ISO-24730 RTLS protocol without additional hardware cost.","The various device tracking technologies may be useful in monitoring\/tracking patients and\/or equipment within communication range of the primary wireless network. Furthermore, the ability to track and monitor the wireless analyzers would play a role in managing wireless analyzers inventory. For example, if the computer on the wireless network indicates that an abundance of wireless analyzers were located in the ICU but there was a shortage in the ER, wireless analyzers could be relocated to meet the needs of the institution.","In some embodiments, the wireless analyzer may include a paging device capable of alerting people in proximity to the wireless analyzer. For example, a \u201cstart alarm\u201d signal may be sent to a wireless analyzer via a secured connection, causing the wireless analyzer to sound an alarm and\/or other alerting means (e.g., vibration, lights, etc.). Once the wireless analyzer has been located, the user may silence the alarm by pressing a button (either physical or via touch screen) on the wireless analyzer and\/or an \u201cend alarm\u201d signal may be communicated to the wireless analyzer via the secured connection.","In some embodiments, the present invention may also be directed to a system and method for connecting other wireless-enabled portable devices to a primary wireless network. For example, a computer with embedded preselected access credentials may be connected to a wireless network to establish a connection between the computer and a portable device acting as a WAP via a secure connection. The computer may then communicate\/transfer the access credentials to the portable device over the wireless network. After closing the wireless connection, the portable device may then authenticate connection to a primary wireless network by communication of the access credentials with the primary wireless network. This process may be automatically repeated for portable devices at various locations.","Although various embodiments have been described with reference to a particular arrangement of parts, features, and the like, these are not intended to exhaust all possible arrangements or features, and indeed many other embodiments, modifications, and variations will be ascertainable to those of skill in the art.","All U.S. and foreign patent documents, and all articles, brochures, and all other published documents discussed above are hereby incorporated by reference into the Detailed Description."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be better understood in view of the appended non-limiting figures, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 4","i":"c "}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
