---
title: Frame accurate content insertion system
abstract: A content insertion system helps digital media providers insert replacement content (e.g., localized commercials) at precisely the right places in the video streams delivered to downstream players. Specifically, with frame accuracy, the system inserts content insertion triggers into the delivered video streams. From a source video input, the system determines the trigger positions at which insertion triggers exist with reference to house timecode. The system then locates the corresponding trigger positions in the output video stream with reference to a framecount of frames generated by a digital encoder. The system inserts corresponding content insertion triggers into the delivered video stream when it locates the corresponding trigger positions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843957&OS=08843957&RS=08843957
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08843957
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20110316
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) to U.S. Pat. App. No. 61\/356,965, filed Jun. 21, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","1. Technical Field","This disclosure relates to content insertion into digital media streams. In particular, this disclosure relates to providing frame accurate content insertion triggers in digital video streams communicated to downstream endpoints.","2. Related Art","Content providers have long faced the problem that their global programming often includes commercial content not relevant to destination markets. Consider, for example, live broadcast video of a ping pong tournament from South Korea. The original broadcast would typically include commercials in the Korean language and specific to Korean products and services. Although suitable for the primary market in South Korea, those commercials are of little or no value for a secondary market, for example the United States or Brazil. In an age of worldwide satellite and cable distribution of programming, there are enormous possibilities for reaching additional markets, but corresponding challenges in localization.","For this reason, broadcast networks have evolved to include mechanisms for local commercial replacement. The replacement is highly accurate and reliable. In particular, the replacement happens on a \u201cframe accurate\u201d basis, which means that local content providers can insert a replacement commercial starting at any desired frame within the video stream. One way in which frame accurate replacement has been done is to insert special dual tone multifrequency (DTMF) tones in the live content stream (e.g., in a subband in the accompanying audio). Local content providers have the benefit of accurate timecode that accompanies the broadcast, and are able to find the DTMF tones and interpret them as content insertion triggers. Because the timing of playout of content is known down to the frame level, the local content providers can replace commercial content with locally relevant commercials without any degradation to the original broadcast, and do so consistently across all of their subscribers.","At the same time, explosive growth and development in high speed digital communication technologies, coupled with highly efficient encoding, today makes virtually any content available anywhere in the world, given a suitable Internet connection. Timecode, however, is not generally available in digitally encoded video. Instead, digital communication of broadcast video relies on transcoding a linear baseband stream of video and audio into a highly compressed linear stream carried in Internet Protocol (IP) packets. The transcoding process typically introduces a delay because of the processing time necessary to generate the compressed linear stream. The delay varies unpredictably depending on the encoding complexity of each frame of video. Because of the unpredictable delay, IP encoded streams cannot be delivered frame accurately. As a result, local content providers could at best only guess at where in the received digital video stream to insert local replacement commercials. In other words, the local content providers were unable to match, on a frame accurate basis, the replacement triggers specified in the original broadcast video.","A need has long existed to address the problems noted above and others previously experienced.","A content insertion system helps locate where, in a digital video stream delivered to an endpoint, custom content should be inserted. Accordingly, as one example, a local media provider may insert into the video stream custom commercials tailored to the specific location served by the local media provider. With frame accuracy, the content insertion system inserts content insertion triggers into the delivered digital video streams. To that end, the system determines the trigger positions at which insertion triggers occur in a source signal (e.g., in a live video broadcast). This determination may proceed with reference, as examples, to timecode accompanying or generated for the source video input. The system then locates the corresponding trigger positions in the output video stream, and inserts corresponding content insertion triggers into the output video stream as the content insertion system communicates the video stream to downstream players.","Other systems, methods, features and advantages will be, or will become, apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems, methods, features and advantages be included within this description, be within the scope of the invention, and be protected by the following claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","102","102","104","106","108","104","108","102"]},"The discussion below makes reference to live broadcast video and replacement commercial content. However, the system  may process different types of source signals for different types of content insertion. For example, the system  may identify, in general, content insertion triggers in pre-recorded broadcast video for identifying and replacing, on a frame accurate basis, substantive portions of the pre-recorded broadcast video with any desired content. One potential application is to add, remove, or otherwise change specific types of content (e.g., scenes of violence) with more desirable content downstream (e.g., less violent replacement scenes). Besides audio and video, other examples of content that may be inserted into the output signal communicated downstream include banner advertisements, media player control instructions (e.g., an instruction to retrieve and display a banner advertisement specified in the instruction), content identifiers (e.g., movie and actor names) and firmware updates.","The live video broadcast signals include content insertion triggers (e.g., commercial triggers) located at trigger positions typically specified down to the level of a single frame. Thus, the commercial insertion triggers in the source signal specify where, on a frame accurate basis, a downstream player should insert a replacement commercial. The system  includes a transcoder that converts the live broadcast video into an output signal having different characteristics than the live broadcast video. For example, the transcoder may be an IP encoder that produces a highly compressed version of the live broadcast signal as a digital output signal. For some output signals (e.g., H.264 or Adobe\u2122 Flash\u2122 streams), the system  locates, in the output signal, output trigger positions that correspond to source signal positions of the source signal content insertion triggers and, at the output trigger positions, inserts output signal content insertion triggers corresponding to the source signal content insertion triggers. For other output signals (e.g., Microsoft\u2122 Silverlight\u2122 streams), the system  may insert content insertion triggers into a manifest file (in whatever form the manifest file syntax specifies) that downstream endpoints access to determine when and where to insert replacement content.","The system  communicates the output signal over the Local Area Networks\/Wide Area Networks (LAN\/WAN)  to the endpoints . The endpoints  may be any of a wide range of devices. As examples, the endpoints  may be local media provider , set top boxes , mobile phones , computers , and personal data assistants (PDAs) .","The local media provider  may be a local broadcasting company, an Internet service provider (ISP), or other provider. The local media provider  receives the output signal from the system  and reacts to the output signal content insertion triggers to insert replacement content on a frame accurate basis. Furthermore, the local media provider  may then communicate the resulting video stream (including the replacement content) over the distribution networks  to additional endpoints . Examples of such additional endpoints  include digital or analog televisions , smart phones , and computers . The set top boxes  may be, as one example, set top boxes provided by a local cable company to drive content to a television or other display .","The output signal from the system  need not be processed by a local media provider  or set top box , however. Instead, any of the endpoints , such as the computers , may directly receive the output signal. Such endpoints  may include media player software (e.g., Abode\u2122 Flash player, a Silverlight\u2122 player, or an H.264 media player) that receives, decodes, and displays the decoded output signal. The media player software may react to the output signal content insertion triggers by inserting, on a frame accurate basis, replacement content as instructed by the output signal content insertion triggers. Alternatively, the media player software may regularly check a locally or remotely hosted manifest file (e.g., in the case of a Silverlight\u2122 player) to determine when to insert replacement content as playback of the received output signal occurs.","Any of the endpoints  may obtain the replacement content (e.g., commercial audio and video data) for insertion from a wide range of sources. For example, the local media provider  may obtain the replacement content from local content servers , remote content servers , or from other data sources. As another example, the set top box  may include a local content database . The local content database  may take the form of a hard disk, non-volatile memory, web or browser cookies, or other memory inside the set top box  that the cable company programs with pre-determined replacement content. For endpoints that include media players that operate in conjunction with manifest files, the players may obtain the manifest file data from local or remote manifest servers , or by receiving manifest file data from the system .","The networks  and  may adhere to a wide variety of network topologies and technologies. For example, the networks  and  may include Ethernet and Fiber Distributed Data Interconnect (FDDI) packet switched networks communicating Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP) packets, or any other communication protocol data. Furthermore, the distribution networks  may include satellite, cable, or microwave transceivers that broadcast the video stream (including replacement content) in analog or digital form to the additional endpoints . Thus, the networks  and  represent a transport mechanism or interconnection of multiple transport mechanisms for data exchange between the system , content servers , manifest servers , and the endpoints .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","204","202","206","208","202","202","210","202","212","204","210"]},"The reference timecode  specifies, for example, the hour, minute, second, and frame, of each frame  in the source signal. Examples of suitable timecode  that the system  may employ include Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE) timecodes, such as Vertical Interval TimeCode (VITC) and Linear TimeCode (LTC). The system  may work with other timecode formats. The source signal  may or may not adhere to a recognized video signal standard, such as the 24 frames per second (FPS) film high definition standard, 25 FPS PAL standard, 29.97 FPS Phase Alternate Line (PAL)-M standard, 25 FPS S\u00e9quentiel couleur \u00e0 m\u00e9moire (SECAM) standard, 29.97 FPS National Television System Committee (NTSC) standard, or 30 FPS High Definition Television standard.","In the example shown in , the timecode 01:30:17:22 marks frame number , (22+25*17+25*60*30+25*1*60*60) from the beginning of the source signal, assuming a 25 FPS source signal . At frame ,, the broadcaster of the source signal  has inserted a DTMF source signal content insertion trigger , with corresponding trigger identifier  (in this instance \u201c\u201d). Accordingly, the source signal  specifies that replacement content should occur starting at frame ,. The substance of the replacement content will be the content identified by trigger identifier . The trigger identifier  may be encoded in the source signal , as examples, in the audio or video sections of the source signal . The trigger identifier  may also be generated, obtained, or specified by the system  responsive, for example, to a list of insertion content and trigger positions provided by a third party to the system .","Accordingly, the system  treats frame , as a trigger position at which custom content will be inserted. For each trigger position, the system  saves the trigger identifier, the timecode, and the framecount in a content trigger entry  in the content trigger table . The content trigger table  may be a data structure in a memory (e.g., in RAM), may be a database table, or may be implemented in other ways. Alternatively or additionally, the system  may save, in a local or remote manifest file , trigger identification data , such as the trigger identifier, the timecode, and the framecount, in whatever format to which the manifest file adheres (e.g., a Silverlight\u2122 manifest file). A downstream media player may then access the manifest file  to determine when to insert replacement content into the locally displayed video stream.","The transcoder  generates digital frames  for the output signal . As the transcoder  generates each frame, the system  increments the digital framecounter  for the output signal . As described in more detail below, the system  synchronizes the digital framecounter  and the timecode and framecount data for the source signal  so that an accurate comparison may be made to find the trigger positions in the output signal  that correspond to the trigger positions in the source signal .","As the digital framecounter  increments, the system  compares the framecount stored in the digital framecounter  against the content trigger entries  in the content trigger table . When a match is found (e.g., between the digital framecounter  value and the framecount , in the content trigger table ), the system  inserts an output signal content insertion trigger  at the current frame in the output signal  (the correct trigger position to maintain frame accuracy with the source signal  content triggers). The output signal content insertion trigger  may include the trigger identifier obtained from the content trigger table , the framecount, and\/or any other trigger-characterizing data that the system obtains. The transport mechanism for the output signal content insertion trigger  may vary depending on the output signal format. As examples, the transport mechanism may be a predefined data field in an H.264 stream, or the direct insertion of a trigger identifier in a Flash output stream.","Downstream, the endpoints  receive the output signal . Media players, for example, in the endpoints  parse the output signal  and find the frame accurate output signal content insertion triggers (e.g., the trigger ). The endpoints  respond to the output signal content insertion triggers by retrieving and inserting the replacement content at exactly the correct frame.","To that end, an endpoint  may extract the trigger identifier (e.g., \u201c\u201d) and query a local or remote database, content server , or other trigger information source, to determine what replacement content (e.g., what commercial) is associated with the trigger identifier. The database, content server , or trigger information source may return, for example, a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) (e.g., a distributed URL link, or a set of the next 5, 10, or other number \u2018n\u2019 of URL links for upcoming replacement content) to the endpoint  in response to the query. The endpoint  executes a data retrieval operation on the resource link to obtain the replacement insertion data. However, as noted above, the endpoints  may obtain the replacement insertion data from local databases, or in other ways.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["102","302","202","302","104","106","108"]},"A house timecode generator  creates internally (with respect to the system ) synchronized replacement timecode for the source signal. The house timecode generator  also serves as a secondary source of timecode when the source signal arrives with timecode already included. Commercially available timecode generators from the Denecke, JVC, Burst, or other companies may implement the house timecode generator , as examples.","The system  maintains a synchronized system-wide reference for a start time (e.g., zero framecount). In particular, the time stamp initiator logic (TSIL)  may issue a starting trigger signal to the components in the system . In response to a starting trigger signal, the components reset to a reference time (e.g., framecount ) and start incrementing framecounts from the reference time. In particular, the TSIL  resets the house timecode generator  and digital framecounter  to the reference time for accurate framecount comparison purposes. The synchronized house timecode may replace the source signal timecode (if any) received with the source signal for the purposes of trigger location and insertion of trigger data into the content trigger table .","In some implementations, the TSIL  may issue the starting trigger in response to a manual input signal received on a reset input  (e.g., a reset switch or touchscreen graphical user interface input). An operator may provide the manual input signal whenever it is desired to reset the system  to a common reference time, such as when a live broadcast begins, for example, or according to other criteria. In other implementations, the TSIL  analyzes signal content (e.g., to find program codes or other data) in the source signal  to automatically determine when to issue the starting trigger signal (e.g., when a program code indicates start of program).","The TSIL  analyzes the source signal  to identify the source signal content insertion triggers. The source signal content insertion triggers may be DTMF tones, General Purpose Interface (GPI) triggers, or other content insertion triggers located in the source signal  according to defined broadcast standards. As it locates content insertion triggers, the TSIL  communicates trigger location messages to the commercial spot timing logic (CSTL) . The trigger location messages may specify that the TSIL  has located a source signal content insertion trigger. The trigger location messages may further specify the trigger identifiers, and trigger positions (e.g., in terms of timecode or framecount) as determined by the TSIL .","Alternatively, the CSTL  may, in response to the trigger location messages, analyze the source signal  and timecode  to determine the trigger identifiers and trigger positions. The CSTL  populates the content trigger table  with the trigger identifier, timecode, and framecount (or any other desired trigger characterizing data). For this purpose, the CSTL  may use, as the reference timecode , the house timecode that the TSIL  synchronized with the starting trigger.","Additionally or alternatively, the house timecode generator  may search for and locate indicia that determine where replacement content should be inserted. For example, the house timecode generator  may detect black or grey frames and flag those frames for the TSIL  or CSTL  as trigger positions in the source signal . The system  may employ the house timecode generator  to flag trigger positions when, for example, any portion of the source signal  does not include explicit content insertion triggers.","From the source signal , the transcoder  generates a transcoded signal that includes digital output frames corresponding to the input frames in the source signal . The transcoder  may be an IP encoder available from Inlet Technologies, Digital Rapids, Axis, or American Dynamics, as examples. The digital content spot insertion logic (CSIL)  or the transcoder  increments the digital framecounter  with each new digital output frame generated by the transcoder . The CSIL  compares the framecount in the digital framecounter  against the content trigger entries  (e.g., against the framecounts) in the content trigger table  to find matches. The matches may indicate the frame accurate position at which an output signal content insertion trigger should be inserted so that replacement content will be inserted at the correct position in the output signal . The matches may also indicate when trigger identification data  (e.g., trigger identifiers, timecode, and framecounts) should be written to the manifest file . Thus, by finding a framecount match, the CSIL  locates in the output signal  the correct trigger position. The CSIL  may then insert into the output signal  an output signal content insertion trigger (e.g., specifying the trigger identifier in a pre-defined data field for insertions defined by the H.264 standard). In addition, the CSIL may add corresponding trigger identification data  into the manifest file .","The CSIL  may delay the output signal . In particular, the CSIL  may introduce a delay in the output signal  to accommodate for the processing time to increment and read the digital framecounter , search for matches in the content trigger table , insert output signal content insertion triggers, insert data into the manifest file , and take other processing steps for frame accurately preparing the output signal. These processing steps should occur prior to the frame corresponding to the desired trigger location passing out of the system  as part of the output signal . In some instances, the output signal delay may be on the order of 10 to 15 seconds. However, the system  may set the CSIL  to use whatever delay, regardless of how long or how short, will allow the framecount matching and content trigger insertion to execute without missing frames in the output signal that correspond to trigger positions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["216","402","404","406","408","102","406","410","102","216","102","216"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["102","502","504","506","507","508","504","510","508","512","510","514","510","516"]},"The time stamp initiator logic  may respond to the operator inputs  (e.g., to button inputs or touchscreen input) and responsively output the starting trigger to the other logic in the memory . Alternatively or additionally, the time stamp initiator logic  may analyze the sampled source signal  for indicia on which to automatically generate the starting trigger.","The transcoding logic  may be a software IP encoder, for example, that generates the digital frames of the output signal , given the sampled source signal . The content spot insertion logic  includes instructions that compare the framecount stored in the digital framecounter  against the content trigger table . Either the transcoding logic  or the content spot insertion logic  may increment the digital framecounter  as new frames for the output signal  are generated. When the content spot insertion logic  finds a match, it inserts into the output signal  an output signal content insertion trigger, for example by specifying the trigger identifier in a Flash video output stream.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["102","202","306","304","306","516","506","506","202","518","602","518","508","520"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","310","526","700","312","507","702","700","704","700","706","700","304","306","308","210"]},"In addition, the logic  may analyze the source signal for content insertion triggers (). As it locates the source signal content insertion triggers, the logic  communicates trigger location messages to the CSTL  (). The trigger location messages may include trigger characterizing data, such as trigger identifiers and trigger positions. The trigger positions may be expressed in terms of framecount at which the content insertion triggers were located, timecode at which the content insertion triggers were located, or both. Alternatively, the CSTL  may analyze the source signal  to find the trigger characterizing data in response to the trigger location messages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","306","514","800","310","802","800","700","304","804"]},"Either from the trigger location messages, or by analyzing the source signal , the logic  may determine the trigger identifiers () and the trigger positions (). With regard to the trigger positions, the logic  may obtain the timecode from the trigger insertion message or directly from the house timecode, as examples. With regard to the framecount stored in the content trigger table , the logic  may compute the framecount from the timecode, may increment the local framecounter by the timecode received from the TSIL  (or determined from the source signal ) when a new trigger is found, or may determine or obtain the framecount in other ways or from other sources. Given the trigger identifiers and trigger positions, the logic  stores content trigger entries in the content trigger table ().","In other implementations, the logic  (e.g., for the TSIL ) handles the starting triggers, while the logic  (e.g., for the CSTL ) searches the source signal  for content insertion triggers, trigger identifiers, trigger positions, and stores the trigger data in the content trigger table.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","308","522","900","310","220","902","900","904","204","216"]},"The logic  receives digital frames from the transcoder  () and may increment the digital framecounter  with each received frame (). Alternatively, the logic  may obtain the framecount from another source, or may allow the transcoder  to increment the framecounter  as the transcoder produces digital frames for the output signal .","As the digital framecounter  increments, the logic  compares the framecount against the content trigger table . More specifically, the logic  attempts to find framecount matches between the digital framecounter  and the framecount entries in the content trigger table . A match successfully locates, in the output signal , the trigger position where replacement content should appear. Accordingly, when the logic  finds a match, the logic  inserts into the output signal  (at the trigger position) an output signal content insertion trigger, or saves a corresponding content trigger entry in a manifest file ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["102","1002","1004","1002","202","1002","1002","216","1002","102","102","0"]},"The digital insertion logic  may include logic, whether in hardware, software, or both, that receives digital video frames from the transcoder . The digital video frames form the output signal , and the digital insertion logic  may maintain a count of the video frames in the digital framecounter . The digital insertion logic  matches the framecount in the digital framecounter  against the trigger position information in the content trigger table . When a match is found, the digital insertion logic  has located a correct trigger position in the output signal. The digital insertion logic  then creates an output signal content insertion record that is frame accurate with respect to the source signal content insertion trigger. In one form, the output signal content insertion record is an insertion into the output signal, at the trigger position, of an output signal content insertion trigger. An example of an output signal content insertion trigger is a trigger identifier from the content trigger table  inserted into a predefined data field in an H.264 stream. In another form, the output signal content insertion record is a manifest file entry stored in a manifest file that will be read and processed by a downstream player of the output signal . The manifest file entry may specify trigger characterizing information, including trigger identifiers and trigger position.","The system  implements technical solutions to the technical problem of frame accurate content insertion in digital media streams. The technical solutions include having the system  use a source signal (e.g., a live broadcast stream signal) prior to digital encoding to drive insertion of content triggers into the output signal post-encoding. Another technical solution is having the system  match digital framecount post-encode with framecount obtained from the timecode of the source signal pre-encode. Another technical solution is issuing a starting trigger synchronization signal to the system components to keep the source signal processing components (e.g., the house timecode generator , TSIL , and CSTL ) synchronized with the digital output signal processing components (e.g., the transcoder  and CSIL ).","The content triggers in the output signal  are frame accurate with respect to the corresponding content triggers in the source signal. As a result, each of the endpoints that receives the output signal may frame-accurately insert replacement content, and every endpoint may display such replacement content at the correct and identical frame time. The endpoints  redirect a media player to replacement content on a frame accurate basis, and then redirect the media player back to the original video stream when all the replacement content has played, or the replacement content insertion time has ended.","In general, the logic and processing described above may be encoded or stored in a machine-readable or computer-readable medium such as a compact disc read only memory (CDROM), magnetic or optical disk, flash memory, random access memory (RAM) or read only memory (ROM), erasable programmable read only memory (EPROM) or other machine-readable medium as, for examples, instructions for execution by a processor, controller, or other processing device. The medium may be implemented as any device or tangible component that contains, stores, communicates, propagates, or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system, apparatus, or device. Alternatively or additionally, the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware, such as one or more integrated circuits, or one or more processors executing instructions that perform the processing described above, or in software in an application programming interface (API) or in a Dynamic Link Library (DLL), functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls, or as a combination of hardware and software. As examples, the transcoder , framecounter , TSIL , CSTL , or CSIL  may be implemented in software, hardware, or both. The logic may be functionally partitioned to meet to goals of any specific implementation. For example, the TSIL  and CSTL  may be separate processing systems or individual programs, or may be integrated into a single processing system or program. Communication between the components in the system  may be RS-422 communication, or adhere to other types of communication protocols. For example, the TSIL  may exchange trigger location information with the CSTL  via the RS-422 protocol.","The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A processor may be implemented as a controller, microprocessor, digital signal processor, microcontroller, application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), discrete logic, or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly, memories may be Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM), Static Random Access Memory (SRAM), Flash, or other types of memory. Parameters (e.g., conditions and thresholds) and other data structures may be separately stored and managed, may be incorporated into a single memory or database, or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instructions may be parts of a single program, separate programs, implemented in libraries such as Dynamic Link Libraries (DLLs), or distributed across several memories, processors, cards, and systems.","While various embodiments of the invention have been described, it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The system may be better understood with reference to the following drawings and description. In the figures, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the different views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
