---
title: Methods and apparatus to configure virtual private mobile networks to reduce latency
abstract: Methods and apparatus to configure virtual private mobile networks for latency are disclosed. A disclosed example method includes provisioning logically a virtual private mobile network within a wireless network to reduce latency of a communication associated with a latency sensitive application, determining a mobile device is communicatively coupling to the wireless network via the latency sensitive application, and coupling the mobile device to the virtual private mobile network to reduce latency of the communication associated with the latency sensitive application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432258&OS=09432258&RS=09432258
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09432258
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110606
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This disclosure relates generally to mobile networks and, more particularly, to methods and apparatus to configure virtual private mobile networks to reduce latency.","Virtualization of computing and networking platforms is becoming popular with clients and customers by providing flexible, customizable, on demand resources at a relatively low cost. A virtualized computing network, also known as a cloud computing network, enables clients to manage web-based applications and\/or data resources by dynamically leasing computational resources and associated network resources from service providers. These web-based applications, data resources, and\/or routing resources may be used by customers of the clients, individuals associated with the clients, and\/or by the clients. This dynamic leasing of computational and network resources creates an appearance and function of a distributed network and, thus, is referred to as virtualization of a network. Virtualized platforms utilize partitioning and allocation of network and\/or computing resources. Accordingly, new resources provisioned for a client may be quickly added as needed within short periods of time by a network provider allocating an additional portion of shared resources to the client. Additionally, virtualization in a network enables network providers to dynamically multiplex resources among multiple clients without dedicating individual physical resources to each client.","Example methods, articles of manufacture, and apparatus to configure virtual private mobile networks to reduce latency are disclosed. A disclosed example method includes provisioning logically a virtual private mobile network within a wireless network to reduce latency of a communication associated with a latency sensitive application. The example method further includes determining a mobile device is communicatively coupling to the wireless network via the latency sensitive application and coupling the mobile device to the virtual private mobile network to reduce latency of the communication associated with the latency sensitive application.","A disclosed example apparatus includes a latency processor to provision logically a virtual private mobile network within a wireless network and determine a mobile device is communicatively coupling to the wireless network via a latency sensitive application. The example apparatus also includes a network manager to configure the virtual private mobile network to reduce latency of communications. The example apparatus further includes a device migrator to couple the mobile device to the virtual private mobile network to reduce latency of a communication associated with the latency sensitive application, the mobile device previously coupled to a second virtual private network.","Currently, wireless mobile networks enable subscribing customers to connect to an external packet switched network (e.g., the Internet) via mobile devices. These wireless mobile networks provide wireless network service via dedicated hardware (e.g., network elements known also as mobility network elements). In many instances, network elements are configured for a corresponding wireless communication protocol. Throughout the following disclosure, reference is made to network elements associated with the 3Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Long Term Evolution (LTE) wireless communication standard. However, the disclosure is applicable to network elements associated with other wireless protocols and\/or standards such as, for example, the General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) for second generation (2G) and Wideband-Code Division Multiple Access (W-CDMA) based third generation (3G) wireless networks.","In a typical wireless mobile network, a base transceiver station (BTS) (e.g., an LTE eNodeB) provides wireless communication service for mobile devices in a cell (e.g., a geographic area). The BTS enables one or more wireless devices to connect to an external packet switched network through the wireless mobile network. In these typical wireless mobile networks, a BTS is communicatively coupled to a serving gateway (e.g., a wireless network interface, router, and\/or server), which routes communications between multiple BTSs and a packet data network (PDN) gateway. The PDN gateway is an interface between the wireless mobile network and external packet switched networks. In other GPRS-based wireless mobile networks, the serving gateway provides similar functionality to a Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) and the PDN gateway provides similar functionality to a Gateway GPRS Support Node (GGSN).","Additionally, many wireless mobile networks include a mobility management entity (MME) that monitors mobile devices on a wireless mobile network and coordinates wireless handoffs between BTSs for the mobile devices. Wireless mobile networks also include home subscriber servers (HSS) (e.g., a home location register (HLR) that mange wireless device profiles and\/or authentication information. Collectively, BTSs, HSSs, HLRs, PDN gateways, and\/or serving gateways are referred to as network elements, which provide a foundation for providing wireless communication services for mobile devices.","To implement a wireless mobile network, a wireless mobile network provider manages and\/or configures network elements. The wireless mobile network enables customers of a wireless mobile network provider to subscribe to the wireless mobile network to receive and\/or transmit voice and\/or data communications. Many network providers configure network elements to provide wireless service to any subscribing customer of the network provider. For example, subscribing customers of a network provider may commonly access a wireless mobile network managed by the network provider.","Additionally, many network providers lease portions of their wireless mobile network to mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs). An MVNO (e.g., Virgin Mobile) is a company that provides mobile device services but does not own, control, and\/or manage its own licensed frequency allocation of a wireless spectrum and\/or does not own, control, and\/or manage network elements needed to create a wireless mobile network. Network elements are capital intensive, which results in many MVNOs desiring to avoid the relatively large costs of creating and maintaining a wireless mobile network. To provide mobile device services, an MVNO leases bandwidth and\/or portions of a wireless spectrum for subscribing customers of the MVNO. In this manner, an MVNO may compete with a wireless mobile network provider for customers but use the same wireless mobile network managed by the wireless mobile network provider.","In other instances, an MVNO may be a relatively large business and\/or government entity that leases a portion of a wireless mobile network for private and\/or proprietary use. For example, a military may lease a portion of a wireless mobile network. In these other instances, employees, agents, and\/or contractors of the MVNO use the leased portion of the wireless mobile network to communicatively couple to data centers and\/or computing elements managed by the MVNO.","Currently, many wireless mobile networks include relatively newer packet orientated architectures such as, for example, LTE. These newer architectures are used primarily as unintelligent transport mechanisms for data and\/or communications associated with mobile devices. The wireless networks are typically predicated on previous uses of mobile device applications. For example, some years ago, most mobile device traffic was related to voice and low volume data applications (e.g., text messaging, e-mail, short message service (SMS)). However, many mobile devices today are smartphones capable of sending and\/or receiving relatively high volumes of data for complex applications (e.g., media streaming, video editing, interactive gaming, etc.). In a relatively unintelligent transport network, data transfer through a mobile infrastructure to reach content servers via the Internet is the same regardless of a type of application. This data routing approach may be suboptimal for data intensive applications that require data relatively quickly. These data intensive applications are referred to herein as latency sensitive applications.","In an example, a common wireless mobile network may similarly route voice communications, low volume data, and high volume data through network elements configured with common network routing protocols. Mobile devices receive the voice communications and data as the wireless mobile network is able to process and\/or route the voice communications and data. In low volume data applications, this data routing may result in some delay, which is relatively imperceptible by a user (e.g., receiving a text message a few seconds or minutes later). In relatively high volume data applications, a few tenths of a second delay can result in delayed video streaming, an interruption in streaming audio, lag during a network game, and\/or significantly longer times to download data, which is highly perceptible to a user.","The example methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture described herein dynamically and\/or logically configure a wireless mobile network to reduce latency by partitioning network elements to create a virtual private mobile network (VPMN) (e.g., a latency VPMN). A latency VPMN enables wireless network providers to partition and configure a portion of network elements with routing and\/or forwarding protocols that reduce propagation times during data transfers. The example latency VPMN may also enable wireless network providers to implement latency reducing protocols logically separate from routing and\/or forwarding protocols for low volume data and\/or communications. Thus, a latency VPMN enables wireless network providers to overcome monolithic closed wireless systems that cater to common services based on industry standards by allowing relatively efficient partitioning of network elements to provide differentiation and\/or innovation via specialized support for services and\/or applications that are latency sensitive.","A VPMN provides private network communications on shared network elements. In some instances, a VPMN may extend end-to-end on a wireless mobile network. In other instances, a VPMN may only be included within some network elements and\/or some types of network elements. To partition (e.g., virtualize) many network elements, portions of a control plane and\/or a data plane of the network elements are partitioned for a particular VPMN. Partitioning network elements may also include partitioning processing power and\/or bandwidth of the network elements for a particular VPMN to separate the VPMN from other portions of a wireless mobile network. Virtualizing VPMNs in a wireless mobile network enables the VPMNs to provide a private secure virtual circuit (and\/or a private path using similar technology such as, for example, a Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) path) extending from mobile devices to an external packet switched network, other mobile devices, and\/or data centers of an MVNO.","To provision a latency VPMN, the example methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture described herein determine which network elements within a wireless mobile network have available capacity and\/or bandwidth to host a latency VPMN. The example methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture described herein configure data and\/or control planes of the determined network elements to host the latency VPMN. The control planes may create wireless mobile network virtual circuits and\/or paths between the network elements to isolate communications within a latency VPMN from communications external to the latency VPMN. The example methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture described herein then determine which mobile devices should be migrated to the latency VPMN by identifying which mobile devices are operating latency sensitive applications and\/or associated with latency sensitive communications. Latency sensitive communications include any data transmitted and\/or received by a latency sensitive application.","The example methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture described herein communicatively couple mobile devices associated with latency sensitive communications to the latency VPMN by configuring the mobile devices with an Access Point Name (APN) that corresponds to the latency VPMN. Upon configuring the network elements and the mobile devices with the assigned APN, the example methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture described herein route and\/or process communications associated with the mobile devices through the latency VPMN to destinations reachable via the Internet.","The example methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture described herein may provision a latency VPMN for a client (e.g., an MVNO) of a wireless network provider. The client utilizes a latency VPMN to provide enhanced services that differentiate the client from other MVNOs and\/or network providers. For example, an MVNO can promote a latency VPMN that routes data relatively faster for latency sensitive applications compared to a wireless network provider.","In some examples, a wireless network operator may partition different latency VPMNs for different types of latency sensitive applications. For example, a first latency VPMN may be configured with routing protocols that create virtual tunnels to reduce propagation times for streaming data applications. Additionally, a second latency VPMN may be configured with in-band controls and\/or routing protocols to equalize and\/or reduce latency between mobile devices communicatively coupled together playing a common network application. Further, a third latency VPMN may be configured with data transfer protocols to enable mobile devices to offload relatively complex data processing algorithms and\/or functions to network elements that have more processing capability (e.g., cloud computing based applications).","Latency sensitive applications are programs, algorithms, functions, and\/or routines operating on mobile devices that process, download, and\/or upload relatively large volumes of time-sensitive data. For example, streaming media applications require a relatively quick and consistent download speed for a high volume of data to play movies, videos, music, website content, and\/or any other media type. Any delay in receiving data may cause a media streaming application to pause the media until the data is received. In an another example, network gaming applications require relatively constant and quick download and upload of data so that gaming environments are synchronized between communicatively coupled mobile devices and\/or gaming servers. Any delay in data transfer can result in game lag and frustrated players. In another example, a latency sensitive application includes computational applications (e.g., video editing applications, cloud computing applications, etc.) that offload processing capabilities from a mobile device to a data center, remote server, and\/or network elements. Any delay in data transfer may result in longer processing times.","In the interest of brevity and clarity, throughout the following disclosure, reference will be made to an example communication system  of  associated with the LTE standard. However, the methods, articles of manufacture, and apparatus described herein to configure virtual private mobile networks to reduce latency are applicable to other types of networks constructed using other network technologies, topologies and\/or protocols.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","102","102","104","102","106"]},"In the illustrated example, the wireless mobile network  is shown as including and\/or associated with network elements -. The example network elements - are shown as one example of communicatively coupling the mobile device  to the IP network . In other examples, the wireless mobile network  can include additional network elements and\/or different types of network elements including, for example, an MME, an HSS, and\/or a policy charging and rules function (PCRF) server. Further, the example network elements - correspond to the LTE standard. In other examples, the network elements - may be associated with any other wireless communication protocol and\/or standard including, for example, Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS) and\/or GPRS.","The example mobile device  (e.g., user equipment (UE)) of the illustrated example includes any device capable of wirelessly communicatively coupling to the wireless mobile network . For example, the mobile device  includes any laptop, smartphone, computing pad, personal digital assistant, tablet computer, personal communicator, etc. Additionally, while  shows the mobile device , in other examples, the communication system  may include additional mobile devices.","To wirelessly connect to the wireless mobile network , the wireless mobile network  includes the eNodeB . The example eNodeB  is a BTS (e.g., an access point) and includes any controllers, transmitters, receivers, and\/or signal generators to provide a wireless spectrum to facilitate wireless communication with, for example, the mobile device . The eNodeB  transforms communications received from the serving gateway  into a wireless signal transmitted to the mobile device . Similarly, the eNodeB  transforms wireless communications received from the mobile device  into a wired communications that may be routed to the IP network .","To route communications to and\/or from the eNodeB , the wireless mobile network  of  includes the serving gateway . The example serving gateway  routes and\/or forwards communications (e.g., data packets) between the PDN gateway  and mobile devices that are within a geographical area assigned to the serving gateway . Location registers within the example serving gateway  store location information including, for example, a geographic location of the eNodeB , visitor location register (VLR) information, and\/or user profile information of the mobile device . The example serving gateway  may also provide authentication and\/or charging functions to enable the mobile device  to access the wireless mobile network .","The example serving gateway  also functions as a mobility anchor for a user plane during inter-eNodeB handovers of the mobile device . In other words, the serving gateway  ensures the mobile device  is connected to an eNodeB when the mobile device  moves to a different physical location. The example serving gateway  further manages and stores contexts (e.g. parameters of the IP wireless mobile network, latency routing information, latency sensitive applications, and\/or network internal routing information) associated with the mobile device . While the wireless mobile network  of  shows the single serving gateway , the wireless mobile network  may include additional serving gateways.","To interface with the IP network  of the illustrated example, the example wireless mobile network  is associated with the PDN gateway . In this example, the PDN gateway  is communicatively coupled to the IP network  via an interface . The example PDN gateway  functions as a router by routing communications from the wireless mobile network  to an appropriate edge and\/or network router within the IP network . Also, the PDN gateway  routes communications directed to the mobile device  from the IP network  to an appropriate serving gateway (e.g., the gateway ). In some examples, the PDN gateway  may determine if the mobile device  is active (e.g., available to receive the communications) by sending a query to the serving gateway . If the serving gateway  indicates the mobile device is active , the serving gateway  sends a response to the PDN gateway  causing the PDN gateway  to forward the communications to the serving gateway . If the mobile device  is inactive and\/or unavailable, the PDN gateway  may discard the communications and\/or query other serving gateways in the wireless mobile network .","In some examples, the PDN gateway  transforms and\/or converts communications originating from the mobile device  received via the serving gateway  into an appropriate packet data protocol (PDP) format (e.g., IP, X.25, etc.) for propagation through the IP network . Additionally, for communications received from the IP network , the PDN gateway  converts the communications into a wireless protocol (e.g., 3GPP LTE, Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), etc.). The example PDN gateway  then readdresses the communications to the corresponding serving gateway .","To configure VPMNs on the network elements -, the wireless mobile network  includes a VPMN controller . The example VPMN controller  receives requests from the network elements - to create a VPMN (e.g., a latency VPMN) to communications associated with latency sensitive applications originating from, for example, the mobile device . The example VPMN controller  may also receive requests from clients (e.g., MVNOs) for VPMNs. To create a VPMN, the example VPMN controller  identifies available portions of the network elements - for the requested VPMNs, and partitions control and\/or data plane space on the network elements - to configure the VPMNs. In some examples, the VPMN controller  may also configure the mobile device  to access a VPMN.","To receive requests to create a VPMN, the example communication system  of  includes a Mobility-as-a-Service (Maas) portal . The MaaS portal  enables clients to specify requirements (e.g., latency protocols) for a VPMN. In some examples, the MaaS portal  may be an interface of the VPMN controller  that a client accesses via the IP network . In other examples, the client may directly access the VPMN controller .","In the illustrated example, a client administrator  (e.g., a client) accesses the MaaS portal  to request a VPMN. The request for a VPMN may include a list of mobile devices that are to be authorized to access the VPMN, an estimated maximum and\/or average amount of bandwidth to be utilized, a geographic location for the VPMN (including a geographic location of the eNodeB  and\/or the serving gateway ), administrative information, billing information, security information, latency routing information, and\/or any other information that may be needed to provision a VPMN.","In response to the client administrator  requesting a VPMN, the MaaS portal , via the VPMN controller , establishes a VPMN through the network elements -. Examples of VPMNs are described below in conjunction with . To enable mobile devices associated with the client administrator  to access the newly created VPMN, the VPMN controller  assigns the VPMN an APN. The APN enables communications from identified mobile devices to be routed through the wireless mobile network  via a VPMN.","An APN identifies a PDN that a mobile device requests to communicatively couple. The APN may also define a type of service, server, and\/or multimedia message service that is provided by a PDN. Typically, an APN includes a network identifier and an operator identifier. The network identifier may define an external network to which the PDN gateway  is connected (e.g., the IP network ). The operator identifier specifies which network (e.g., VPMN) is associated with the PDN gateway . In the example of , the VPMN controller  uses operator identifiers of APNs to identify to which VPMN communications from a mobile device are to be routed.","The example VPMN controller  of the illustrated example transmits an assigned APN to subscribing customers identified to be communicatively coupled to a VPMN. The VPMN controller  also registers the APN with APN domain name system (DNS) servers  and  within the respective networks  and . Registering the APN with the APN DNS servers  and  enables communications associated with a VPMN to be routed to the appropriate VPMN on the network elements - when the VPMN controller  is unable to extend the VPMN from end-to-end (e.g., from the eNodeB  to the interface  of the PDN gateway ). Thus, the use of APNs enables the VPMN controller  to provision a VPMN over a portion of the network elements - when other network elements are not capable and\/or are not configured to host the VPMN.","To determine which communications from, for example, the mobile device  are latency sensitive and\/or potentially latency sensitive, the example VPMN controller  of  includes a latency processor . The example latency processor  stores latency routing rules for the wireless mobile network  that include identifiers of latency sensitive applications, profiles of high volume data, and\/or protocols to reduce latency within a latency VPMN. The latency sensitive identifiers, profiles, and\/or the protocols may be specified by, for example, the client administrator , and\/or an operator of the wireless mobile network . In other examples, the example latency processor  may compile and\/or aggregate instances of latency sensitive communications to determine additional protocols, algorithms, and\/or routing rules for reducing latency for one or more types of latency sensitive applications.","The example latency processor  of  transmits latency routing rules and\/or identifiers of latency sensitive applications to each of the VPMNs implemented on the network elements -. The latency processor  may also transmit the latency routing rules and\/or identifiers of latency sensitive applications to the network elements - in instances where the network elements - process communications separate from a VPMN. In some instances, the latency processor  may transmit different sets of latency routing rules to different VPMNs based on instructions from, for example, the client administrator . For example, some client administrators may only be concerned with network gaming lag for their respective VPMNs while other client administrators may be concerned with cloud computing application delays and\/or media application streaming delays for their respective VPMNs.","The example VPMNs and\/or the network elements - use the identifiers of latency sensitive applications to identify latency sensitive communications. In other examples, the latency processor  may monitor VPMNs and\/or the network elements - for latency sensitive communications. After detecting latency sensitive communications, the VPMNs and\/or the network elements - broadcast information associated with the communications and\/or an identifier of a mobile device associated with the communications to other VPMNs and\/or the latency processor . The VPMNs and\/or the latency processor  may then determine if, for example, the mobile device  is associated with other latency sensitive communications and transmits information associated with those identified communications.","The example latency processor  and\/or the VPMNs of the illustrated example use the information regarding the latency sensitive communications to provision, for example, the mobile device  to a VPMN designated to reduce latency through the wireless mobile network  (e.g., a latency VPMN). In some instances, the example network elements - may already have a VPMN for latency provisioned. In other examples, the latency processor  provisions a VPMN after latency sensitive communications are detected. The example latency processor  and\/or a VPMN that detected the communications communicatively couples the mobile device  to the latency VPMN. To communicatively couple the mobile device , the example latency processor  and\/or the detecting VPMN uses over the air programming to send an APN associated with the latency VPMN to the mobile device and\/or the network elements -. In some examples, the over the air programming may include provisioning a subscriber identity module (SIM) card of the mobile device  with an APN corresponding to the latency VPMN.","The example latency VPMN processes and\/or routes communications from the mobile device . The example latency VPMN propagates the latency sensitive communications associated with the mobile device  through the wireless mobile network  to the IP network  separate and\/or isolated from other non-latency sensitive communications from other mobile devices. The mobile device  may transmit and\/or receive all communications (e.g., latency sensitive and non-latency sensitive) through the latency VPMN as long as the mobile device  transmits and\/or receives some latency sensitive communications. After the mobile device  finishes processing latency sensitive communications and\/or terminates latency sensitive application(s), the example latency VPMN and\/or the latency processor  migrate the mobile device  to an originally connected VPMN and\/or to the general non-VPMN portions of the network elements -. In other examples, the latency processor  may provision the mobile device  so that latency sensitive applications transmit and\/or receive communications via the a latency VPMN while non-latency sensitive applications transmit and\/or receive communications via non-VPMN potions of the network elements - and\/or via non-latency configured VPMNs. In these other examples, the mobile device  includes at least dual identities that enables the mobile device  to provision each identity to a different APN.","While the example discusses creating a general latency VPMN for any detected latency sensitive application, the example latency processor  of  may create different latency VPMNs for different types of latency sensitive applications. For example, a first latency VPMN may be created specifically for network gaming and include protocols and\/or in-band controls for equating latency at relatively fine granular levels between communicatively coupled mobile devices. Additionally, a second latency VPMN may be created for media applications and include processing and\/or routing protocols configured to create virtual network tunnels to reduce data propagation times through the wireless mobile network .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIGS. 2-4","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["104","202","204","202","204","104","104","108","112","104","210","212","214","104"]},"The example MME  tracks and pages mobile devices that are communicatively coupled to the wireless mobile network . The example MME  may also activate and\/or deactivate mobile devices and\/or authenticate mobile devices attempting to connect to the wireless mobile network  by requesting user profile information from the HSS . In some examples, the MME  may be similar to the servers  and  of  by selecting the appropriate serving gateway  and\/or PDN gateway  when mobile devices provide an APN to connect to one of the VPMNs  and .","The example HSS  of  includes a database of subscription-related information (e.g., subscribing customer profiles). The example HSS  performs authentication and\/or authorization of a mobile device attempting to access the wireless mobile network  by providing the MME  with mobile device profile information to match to profile information by the requesting mobile device. The HSS  may also include information about a geographic location of a subscribing customer and\/or IP information associated with a mobile device of the customer.","The example PCRF server  determines policy rules for the wireless mobile network . The example PCRF server  aggregates information to and\/or from the wireless mobile network  and\/or the network elements -, , and  in real time to create rules. The example PCRF  may also store latency routing rules  that include identifiers of latency sensitive applications. Based on the created rules, the PCRF server  automatically makes intelligent policy decisions for each mobile device active on the wireless mobile network . In this manner, the PCRF server  enables a wireless mobile network provider to offer multiple services, quality of service (QoS) levels, and\/or charging rules. Additionally, the PCRF server  may also broadcast and\/or transmit the latency routing rules  to the portions of the network elements -,  and  hosting the VPMNs  and .","In the example of , the Client X requests the VPMN  from the VPMN controller  of  to enable mobile devices - to subscribe to a service offered by the Client X to connect to the IP network . The example Client X may also specify the latency routing rules  for identifying communications associated with latency sensitive applications within the VPMN . In this example, the Client X may be an MVNO.","In this illustrated example, the Client X requests that the VPMN  extend end-to-end of the wireless mobile network . As a result of the request, the VPMN controller  extends the VPMN  to all of the network elements - and - within the wireless mobile network . In other examples, the Client X may only request and\/or may only be able to request a VPMN to be setup on some of the network elements - and -. By requesting the VPMN , the example VPMN controller  identifies available space within the network elements - and - and allocates control and\/or data planes of the network elements - and - for the VPMN . The VPMN controller  then configures the allocated control and\/or data plane portions of the network elements - and - for the VPMN .","To configure the network elements - and -, the example VPMN controller  may assign an APN to the VPMN  and update a control plane of the network elements  and - with the APN assignment. The VPMN controller  may also assign and\/or configure specific interfaces, switches, and\/or processors within the network elements - and - to host the VPMN .","The mobile devices - use the assigned APN to access the respective VPMN . Further, by using the APN, the network elements - and - may propagate communications within the VPMN  until an end point is reached. By using APNs, the example VPMN controller  creates exclusive virtual circuits (e.g., MPLS paths) from the eNodeB  to the PDN gateway  for routing communications within the VPMN  for the mobile devices - registered with the Client X MVNO. Thus, the APNs ensure that communications from the mobile devices - are routed through the wireless mobile network  via the VPMN .","Further, the VPMN  partitioned within the network elements - enables access control, authentication, mobile device profile management, latency routing rules, latency sensitive identifiers, and\/or network rules to be configurable for the Client X. Thus, subscriber information for the Client X within the HSS  is separate from subscriber information associated with other VPMNs (not shown) and\/or subscribers that use non-VPMN portions of the network elements - and -. The separation of the control and\/or data planes of the network elements - via the VPMN  also enables the Client X to provide different types of services (e.g., routing of communications that are latency sensitive) using the same network elements - and -. Further, the separation of the control and\/or data planes of the network elements - via the VPMN  prevents security issues in, for example, the VPMN  from propagating to other portions of the network elements - and -.","The example wireless mobile network  of  also includes the latency VPMN  within the network elements - and -. In other examples, the latency VPMN  may be included only within some of the network elements - and -. In this example, the latency VPMN  is provisioned for the Client X as a VPMN to process communications associated with latency sensitive applications detected within the VPMN . When there are relatively few communications to process, the example latency VPMN  may allocate relatively less bandwidth and\/or processing capacity from among the network elements - and - compared to bandwidth and\/or processing capacity allocated for the VPMN .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["104","302","110","302","202","110","302","216","110","110","224","110","302","212"]},"In yet other examples, the mobile device  may set a bit, byte, and\/or transmit a message indicating that communications are latency sensitive. In these other examples, the Client X may pre-configure the mobile device  with a function that identifies latency sensitive applications. The example feature may then tag and\/or identify outgoing communications from a latency sensitive application as latency sensitive. Further, the Client X may configure the VPMN  to include a protocol that searches for the latency sensitive tag and\/or identifier.","After detecting the latency sensitive communications , the example serving gateway  transmits information regarding the latency sensitive communications  to the other network elements , , and -. The serving gateway  may also transmit the information to the example latency processor  within the example VPMN controller . The serving gateway  may communicate with the other network elements , , and -, the VPMN controller , and\/or any other VPMNs (not shown) via a controlled interface (e.g., an application programming interface (API)). The transmission of the latency sensitive information causes the network elements , , and - to determine if any communications that match the information associated with the latency sensitive communications are included within their respective portions of the VPMN . The example serving gateway  and\/or the network elements , , and - may use the latency sensitive communication information to identify, for example, that the mobile device  is associated with (e.g., originated) the latency sensitive communications .","To communicatively couple the mobile device  to the latency VPMN , the example serving gateway  sends the mobile device  an APN that corresponds to the latency VPMN . For example, the serving gateway  may provision a SIM card of the mobile device  with the APN. Further, the example serving gateway  may broadcast the provisioning of the mobile device  to the other network elements , , and - hosting the VPMNs  and  so that the network elements , , and - route and\/or process communications associated with the mobile device  through the latency VPMN  using the newly assigned APN.","Once the mobile device  is communicatively coupled to the latency VPMN , protocols, in-band controls, routing algorithms, and\/or analysis tools may determine specific information regarding the latency sensitive communications  and\/or the corresponding latency sensitive application. The protocols and\/or analysis tools may be used to determine an appropriate strategy for the mobile device . For example, the VPMN  may send a message to a user of the mobile device  that the mobile device  has been provisioned for the latency VPMN  to improve performance of latency sensitive applications. In other instances, the protocols and\/or the analysis tools of the latency VPMN  may utilize resources of, for example, the network elements - and - to provide processing of functions associated with a latency sensitive application. Further, the example latency VPMN  may continue to isolate communications associated with the mobile device  from the VPMN  until the latency sensitive applications on the mobile device  are terminated.","The protocols deployed within the latency VPMN  improve propagation times of communications between the mobile device  and, for example, the IP network . Thus, the example latency VPMN  ensures that latency sensitive communications associated with the mobile device  are processed within the portions of the network elements - and - that are specifically configured to route and\/or process the latency sensitive communications while other communications associated with, for example, the mobile devices  and  are processed using routing protocols that are not configured for latency sensitive communications. In this manner, the example Client X only needs to deploy and\/or utilize additional protocols within the portions of the network elements - and - that are provisioned to host the latency VPMN , thereby reducing protocols used for the VPMN . Thus, by not having to deploy latency protocols within the VPMN , the Client X can reduce overhead, processing capacity, and\/or control plane information for the VPMN .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3","FIGS. 1-3","FIG. 4"],"b":["202","204","108","402","404","402","202","404","204","202","204","402","404","110"]},"The example eNodeBs  and  of the illustrated example are physically separate to create isolation in a wireless spectrum between the VPMNs  and . In other words, the entire eNodeB  is configured with protocols (and\/or hardware) to reduce latency in communications associated with the mobile devices . Thus, the mobile devices  provisioned for the VPMN  are communicatively coupled to the example eNodeB  and mobile devices  provisioned for the latency VPMN  are communicatively coupled to the example eNodeB . In this example, the mobile devices  are associated with latency sensitive communications and\/or applications. For example, the mobile devices  may operate a network gaming application, media streaming applications, or intensive processing applications that can be offloaded to, for example, the network elements , , -, and\/or .","To reduce latency for identified applications, the example VPMN controller , the example latency processor , and\/or the network elements , , -, and\/or  migrate the mobile devices  to the latency VPMN  from the VPMN . To communicatively couple the mobile devices  to the eNodeB , the example serving gateway  may transmit an APN to the mobile devices  and\/or the network elements , , -, and\/or  that corresponds to the latency VPMN . The mobile devices  may then communicate with destinations reachable via the IP network  using virtual circuits within the latency VPMN  configured to reduce latency and\/or communication propagation time.","In some examples, the mobile devices  (e.g., smartphones and\/or tablet computers) may be determined to include many latency sensitive applications that require communication with the IP network . In these examples, the mobile devices  may be pre-configured to be communicatively coupled to the latency VPMN  regardless of detected latency sensitive communications because the mobile devices  are predisposed to utilize many latency sensitive applications. After a time period, the example latency processor  and\/or the VPMN controller  may determine that one of the mobile devices  does not routinely operate latency sensitive applications. In these instances, the latency processor  and\/or the VPMN controller  may migrate the identified mobile device to the VPMN .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-4"],"b":["104","204","502","506","108","112","210","214","202","204","204","108","112","210","214","108","112","210","214"]},"In the illustrated example, the example mobile devices  and  are communicatively coupled to the wireless mobile network  and\/or the IP network  via the network elements - and -. Additionally, the mobile device  is communicatively coupled to the wireless mobile network  via the latency VPMN  provisioned within the network elements - and -. In this example, the mobile device  is identified as being associated with latency sensitive communications.","The example of  also includes a local PDN gateway  (e.g., mobility data center) and a communicatively coupled content server . The example local PDN gateway  is included within the example wireless mobile network  and communicatively coupled to the serving gateway . Additionally, the latency VPMN  is provisioned within the local PDN gateway  to enable the wireless device  to access the content server .","The example local PDN gateway  may be utilized within the example wireless mobile network  to reduce propagation times of communications between, for example, the mobile devices - and the content server . In many wireless networks, the example PDN gateway  can be located thousands of miles from the serving gateway . Thus, the mobile devices - that communicate with entities reachable via the IP network  may have to transmit communications a thousand miles to reach the PDN gateway  and possibly another thousand miles to reach a destination. The example local PDN gateway  is deployed relatively physically close to the content server , thereby reducing communication propagation times between the mobile devices - and the content server .","In the illustrated example, the local PDN gateway  may include many of the functions of the PDN gateway , as described in conjunction with . However, because the local PDN gateway  processes relatively fewer communications targeted only for the content server  (and\/or a group of physically close content servers), the example local PDN gateway  may have relatively lower processing capacity compared to the PDN gateway . In this example, the example serving gateway  receives communications from the mobile devices -, determines the communications are addressed to the content server , and routes the communications to the local PDN gateway . Similarly, the example latency VPMN  within the serving gateway  routes communications from the mobile device  with a destination of the content server  to the latency VPMN  within the local PDN gateway .","In some instances, the latency VPMN  hosted on the local PDN gateway  may be configured with a protocol to offload processing functions from the mobile device  for applications retrieving content from the content server . Thus, the latency VPMN  hosted on the local PDN gateway  reduces latency with the mobile device  by processing relatively high volumes of data and\/or communications from the content server  and transmitting the results of the processing to the mobile device . In examples where the content server  hosts a network gaming application, the latency VPMN  hosted by the local PDN gateway  may be configured with in-band controls to provide a equally fine granular level of latency between communicatively coupled mobile devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 2-5","FIG. 1","FIGS. 2-5"],"b":["216","602","612","122","602","612","116","130","108","112","210","214","214","216","602","612","202","204","108","112","210","212","116","130","216","602","612"]},"In the example of , the video editing application identifier  corresponds to a latency sensitive application that utilizes hosts (e.g., the network elements - and -) to offload data intensive video processing. The example video streaming application identifier  and the multimedia video identifier  correspond to latency sensitive applications that utilize relatively high volumes of data and\/or communications. The example multiplayer network gaming application identifier  corresponds to a latency sensitive application that plays a game through a network. The example cloud computing application identifier  corresponds to a latency sensitive application that uses remote data centers and\/or servers to store data, operate a service, and\/or any other cloud computing application. The example social media application identifier  corresponds to a latency sensitive application that accesses one or more social media websites to access and\/or create content.","The example identifiers of latency sensitive applications - are shown for purposes of illustration. In other examples, the latency routing rules  may include additional, fewer, and\/or different types of latency sensitive applications. Additionally, the latency routing rules  may specify which latency VPMN a mobile device is to be migrated based on a type of latency sensitive application.","The example latency routing rules  of the illustrated example may also use priorities as to which communications associated with which latency sensitive applications are to be migrated to a latency VPMN first. The priorities may be specified by, for example, the client administrator  of . For example, a latency VPMN hosted by the network elements - and - has a certain amount of bandwidth. In these instances, only mobile devices operating relatively higher priority latency sensitive applications may be communicatively coupled to the latency VPMN.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["116","130","116","130","116","130"]},"To receive requests and\/or latency routing rules from clients (e.g., the client administrator  of ) for VPMNs, the example VPMN controller  of the illustrated example includes a client interface  (e.g., the MaaS portal ). The example client interface  provides a framework that enables clients to request a VPMN by selecting, for example, bandwidth requirements, geographic location, wireless spectrum frequencies, and\/or which types of network elements are to host a VPMN. The request may also include client administrative information including billing information, profile information, network addresses, etc. In some examples, the client interface  may be a web-based interface that provides options and\/or templates that clients can select to request a VPMN and\/or specify latency sensitive applications. In other examples, the client interface  may include a phone-request system and\/or a form request system.","After receiving a request from a client for a VPMN, the client interface  creates a client account that includes the information provided by the client. The client interface  stores the client account to a client records database . In some examples, the HSS  of  may access the client records database  for client profile information for security authentication and\/or authorization. The client records database  may be implemented by Electronically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM), Random Access Memory (RAM), Read-Only Memory (ROM), and\/or any other type of memory.","The example client interface  may also assign one or more APNs to a VPMN requested by a client. The client interface  may store the APN(s) to the client account in the client records database . Additionally, the client interface  may transmit the APN(s) and\/or any information associated with a newly created VPMN to the client.","To manage the creation and\/or management of VPMNs, the VPMN controller  of  includes a network manager . The example network manager  uses the information provided by the client to create a VPMN. The example network manager  may also receive requests from the latency processor  to create a latency VPMN (e.g., the latency VPMN ). To determine which network elements will host the VPMN, the network manager  receives a status of the wireless mobile network  via a network monitor .","The example network monitor  of the illustrated example scans the wireless mobile network  to determine network traffic conditions, bandwidth usage, and\/or any QoS issues. In some examples, the network monitor  may maintain a history of network performance based on detected network conditions. The network monitor  may also determine an amount of available capacity and\/or bandwidth within network elements (e.g., the network elements -, -, , and  of ).","The example network manager  of  uses the information from the network monitor  to identify available network elements to host a VPMN. The network manager  may also use information associated with other client VPMNs stored in the client records database  to determine if there is available capacity within the identified network elements based on already licensed VPMN usage. If there is no additional capacity for another VPMN, the network manager  identifies other available network elements.","For each of the network elements with available capacity, the network manager  allocates a portion of a control plane and\/or a data plane. Allocating a data plane may include allocating a portion of a wireless spectrum of one or more eNodeBs for a VPMN. The network manager may also allocate a data plane by partitioning a portion of a switch within for example, the gateways  and  for network traffic associated with a VPMN. The network manager  may further allocate a data plane by designating certain interfaces of a switch and\/or a router for a VPMN. After allocating data plane space to network elements, the network manager  sends an instruction to a data plane configurer  to configure a data plane on the allocated portions of the identified network elements.","The example network manager  allocates a control plane by, for example, designating a portion of IP address space that is to be associated with a VPMN. The portion of the IP address space may be referenced to an assigned APN. The example network manager  may also partition a control plane of a network element by virtualizing functionality of the network element specifically designated for a VPMN. The example network manager  may further allocate a control plane by partitioning portions of databases and\/or servers (e.g., the MME , HSS , and\/or the PCRF server ) to store information associated with clients and\/or subscribing customers of a VPMN and\/or latency routing rules. After allocating control plane space to network elements, the network manager  sends an instruction to a control plane configurer  to configure a control plane on the allocated portions of the identified network elements.","By allocating portions of a data plane and\/or a control plane, the example network manager  may also specify a virtual circuit (and\/or other type of private path such as, for example, a MPLS path) to be implemented within a VPMN. To specify a virtual circuit, the network manager  identifies outgoing and\/or incoming interfaces of the network elements associated with the VPMN and\/or IP address space allocated to the VPMN. The example network manager  then links together the interfaces, routers, switches, interfaces, and\/or connections based on the identified information to create the virtual circuit and updates routing and\/or forwarding tables within the corresponding network elements. Thus, any communications associated with a VPMN are transmitted between the VPMN allocated portions of the network elements.","Additionally, the network manager  may determine if separate eNodeBs are to be used for each VPMN (as described in conjunction with ). If multiple eNodeBs are to be utilized, the client interface  receives parameters associated with the eNodeB. The network manager  uses the parameters and\/or an assigned APN to associate the VPMN to an eNodeB. A mobile device configurer  and\/or an APN manager  may then configure the eNodeB to be communicatively coupled to one or more serving gateways that have partitioned space for the VPMN.","To configure a VPMN on a data plane of network elements, the example VPMN controller  of  includes the data plane configurer . The example data plane configurer  provisions a VPMN on portions of network elements identified by the network manager  and\/or the latency processor . The example data plane configurer  may configure and\/or provision a VPMN by designating, for example, frequencies of a wireless spectrum provided by an eNodeB for a VPMN.","Additionally, the data plane configurer  may designate portions of a server and\/or a router (e.g., the gateways  and\/or ) for hosting the VPMN. The example data plane configurer  may also create a virtual circuit (e.g., MPLS path) for a VPMN by updating routing and\/or forwarding tables of network elements based on information from the network manager . The example data plane configurer  may also dynamically change an amount of bandwidth and\/or processing capacity provisioned for a VPMN based on instructions from the network manager .","For example, the network manager  may receive an indication from the network monitor  that a VPMN on a serving gateway is operating close to provisioned capacity. In this example, the network manager  may increase data plane space for the VPMN by instructing the data plane configurer  to provision additional interfaces, links, circuitry, and\/or processing capacity of the serving gateway for the VPMN. Thus, the data plane configurer  enables a VPMN to be dynamically provisioned based on current, future, and\/or predicted network traffic conditions.","To configure a VPMN on a control plane of network elements, the example VPMN controller  of  includes the control plane configurer . The example control plane configurer  provisions a VPMN on portions of network elements identified by the network manager  and\/or the latency processor . The example control plane configurer  may configure a VPMN in a control plane of a network element by updating routing and\/or forwarding tables with an IP address space and\/or an APN for communications associated with a VPMN.","The example control plane configurer  provisions a control plane for a latency VPMN (e.g., the latency VPMN  of ) by configuring latency reducing protocols and\/or analysis tools within the latency VPMN. The protocols and\/or analysis tools enable the latency VPMN to improve latency, equality latency, and\/or offload processing from mobile devices. The example control plane configurer  may also deploy algorithms, programs, and\/or routines to collect information about the latency sensitive communications and\/or applications for statistical and\/or tracking analysis.","Further, the control plane configurer  may provision portions of a database storing client profile information and\/or subscriber profile information so that the information is only accessible via a VPMN. In other examples, the control plane configurer  may update network elements with specialized service information for a VPMN. Thus, the control plane configurer  ensures that client and\/or subscribing customer information associated with different VPMNs can be stored on the same network element so that the information is only accessible to entities and\/or network elements associated with the corresponding VPMN.","To update mobile devices with information, thereby enabling the mobile devices to communicatively couple to a VPMN, the example VPMN controller  of  includes a mobile device configurer . The example mobile device configurer  may install functionality, codes, connectivity, etc. to a mobile device (e.g., the mobile device ) to enable the mobile device to connect to a VPMN. For example, the mobile device configurer  may transmit an APN associated with a VPMN to corresponding mobile devices. The example mobile device configurer  may also transmit mobile device information and\/or customer profile information to network elements to enable the network elements to authorize and\/or authenticate a mobile device connecting to a VPMN. In other examples, a client (e.g., an MVNO) may pre-configure a mobile device with functionality to connect to a VPMN prior to providing the mobile device to a subscribing customer.","To propagate an APN assigned to a VPMN to network elements, the example VPMN controller  of the illustrated example includes an APN manager . The example APN manager  receives an APN assigned to a VPMN by the network manager  and transmits the APN to network elements that have a portion of a control and\/or a data plane partitioned for an associated VPMN. For example, the APN manager  may transmit an APN to the HSS  and\/or the MME , thereby enabling the MME  to determine to which VPMN on the serving gateway  communications from a mobile device are to be routed. Additionally or alternatively, the APN manager  may transmit an assigned APN to the APN DNS servers  and  of . In examples where more than one APN is associated with a client, the APN manager  transmits the appropriate APN to network elements. Further, the APN manager  may update APNs stored on the network elements as the APNs are updated by the VPMN controller .","To provision a latency VPMN within, for example, the wireless mobile network , the example VPMN controller  of  includes the latency processor . The example latency processor  identifies and\/or receives indications of latency sensitive communications and determines which corresponding mobile device is to be communicatively coupled to which latency VPMN. While the example latency processor  is included within the VPMN controller , in other examples, the latency processor  may be external and communicatively coupled to the VPMN controller . For example, the latency processor  may be implemented within a latency VPMN hosted by, for example, the network elements - and -.","In some examples, the latency processor  monitors communications within, for example, the wireless mobile network  for latency sensitive communications and\/or latency sensitive applications accessing the network . In other examples, the example latency processor  may coordinate the monitoring of communications between, for example, the network elements - and - and\/or VPMNs provisioned on the network elements - and -. The example latency processor  accesses a latency rules database  to identify which communications are latency sensitive within the network elements - and -.","The example latency rules database  stores latency routing rules (e.g., the latency routing rules ) that include identifiers of latency sensitive applications and\/or communications. The latency rules database  may also store latency routing rules that specify profiles of communication patterns that indicate high volume data transfers and\/or latency sensitive communications. In some examples, the latency rules database  may be included within, for example, the PCRF server  of . The latency rules database  stores records of latency sensitive communications and\/or records identifying which mobile devices are associated with one or more latency sensitive communications. Network operators and\/or the example latency processor  may use these records to create additional latency routing rules and\/or generate network statistics. The latency rules database  may be implemented by Electronically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM), Random Access Memory (RAM), Read-Only Memory (ROM), and\/or any other type of memory.","After detecting latency sensitive communications and\/or receiving an indication of latency sensitive communications from, for example, the VPMN  of , the example latency processor  of  determines if a latency VPMN is provisioned within the example network elements - and -. If a latency VPMN needs to be provisioned, the example latency processor  provisions a latency VPMN. To provision the latency VPMN, the example latency processor  may instruct the network manager  to identify available capacity within the network elements - and - and allocate control and\/or data plane space for the latency VPMN. The example network manager  then coordinates the creation of the latency VPMN with the configurers -. The example network manager  may also instruct the APN manager  to send an identified mobile device an APN of the newly provisioned VPMN. In other examples, the example latency processor  may provision a latency VPMN within the network elements - and -.","The example latency processor  selects which latency VPMN to communicatively couple a mobile device based on a type of latency sensitive communications. For example, the latency processor  may communicatively couple a mobile device operating a network gaming application to a latency VPMN with specific in-band control protocols to reduce game lag. In other examples, the latency processor  may determine a priority for mobile devices to be communicatively coupled to a latency VPMN based on a type of application associated with the communications, a service level agreement associated with the mobile device, and\/or any other criteria specified by a client network administrator.","Further, for each provisioned latency VPMN, the example latency processor  may configure, transmit and\/or install protocols, routines, algorithms, analysis tools. For example, the example latency processor  may configure a latency VPMN associated with data intensive processing functions with protocols for processing the data within the latency VPMN hosted by, for example, the network elements - and -, which have relatively more processing capacity than a mobile device. These protocols may include, for example, offloading routines to synchronize a mobile device to results of processing.","The example latency processor  may also provision a latency VPMN on local PDN gateways (e.g., mobility data centers). In these examples, the latency processor  only provisions a latency VPMN on a local PDN gateway in response to requests to access relatively physically close content servers and\/or data centers. To select the local PDN gateway, the example latency processor  may determine a geographic location of a destination address of the latency sensitive communications and determine which local PDN gateway is relatively close. In this manner, the example latency processor  only provisions a latency VPMN when there is demand, thereby conserving allocated portions of local PDN gateways when there is reduced and\/or no demand. In other examples, the latency processor  may provision a latency VPMN on frequently accessed and\/or utilized local PDN gateways.","In examples where a latency VPMN is already provisioned, the example latency processor  instructs a device migrator  to communicatively couple a mobile device (e.g., the mobile device  of ) to the latency VPMN. The example device migrator  may use, for example, over the air programming via the serving gateway , the HSS , the MME  and\/or the eNodeB  to provision a SIM card of a mobile device to communicatively couple the mobile device to a latency VPMN. In this example, the device migrator  may determine an APN to provision the SIM card by accessing the APN manager . In other examples, the device migrator  may determine an APN for the latency VPMN from a network provider and\/or a client administrator. In other examples, the example latency processor  may instruct the APN manager  to communicatively couple a mobile device to a latency VPMN.","The example device migrator  of  migrates mobile devices from a latency VPMN after the latency processor , a latency VPMN, and\/or the network elements - and - determine that the mobile devices are no longer receiving and\/or transmitting latency sensitive communications. The example device migrator  may wait a predefined time period after latency sensitive communications cease prior to migrating the mobile devices. In these examples, the device migrator  may send an APN to a non-latency VPMN and\/or an APN to the network elements - and -. In other examples, the device migrator  may instruct the APN manager  to migrate the mobile device.","While the example VPMN controller  and\/or the latency processor  has been illustrated in , one or more of the servers, platforms, interfaces, data structures, elements, processes and\/or devices illustrated in  may be combined, divided, re-arranged, omitted, eliminated and\/or implemented in any way. Further, the example client interface , the example client resource database , the example network manager , the example network monitor , the example data plane configurer , the example control plane configurer , the example mobile device configurer , the example APN manager , the example latency processor , the example latency rules database , the example device migrator , and\/or more generally, the example VPMN controller  may be implemented by hardware, software, firmware and\/or any combination of hardware, software and\/or firmware. Thus, for example, any of the example client interface , the example client resource database , the example network manager , the example network monitor , the example data plane configurer , the example control plane configurer , the example mobile device configurer , the example APN manager , the example latency processor , the example latency rules database , the example device migrator  and\/or more generally, the example VPMN controller  could be implemented by one or more circuit(s), programmable processor(s), application specific integrated circuit(s) (ASIC(s)), programmable logic device(s) (PLD(s)) and\/or field programmable logic device(s) (FPLD(s)), etc.","When any apparatus claim of this patent is read to cover a purely software and\/or firmware implementation, at least one of the example client interface , the example client resource database , the example network manager , the example network monitor , the example data plane configurer , the example control plane configurer , the example mobile device configurer , the example APN manager , the example latency processor , the example latency rules database , and\/or the example device migrator  are hereby expressly defined to include a computer readable medium such as a memory, DVD, CD, etc. storing the software and\/or firmware. Further still, the example VPMN controller  and\/or the latency processor  may include one or more elements, processes and\/or devices in addition to, or instead of, those illustrated in , and\/or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements, processes and devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIGS. 8A and 8B"]},"Alternatively, some or all of the example processes of  may be implemented using any combination(s) of application specific integrated circuit(s) (ASIC(s)), programmable logic device(s) (PLD(s)), field programmable logic device(s) (FPLD(s)), discrete logic, hardware, firmware, etc. Also, some or all of the example processes of  may be implemented manually or as any combination(s) of any of the foregoing techniques, for example, any combination of firmware, software, discrete logic and\/or hardware. Further, although the example processes of  are described with reference to the flow diagrams of , other methods of implementing the processes of  may be employed. For example, the order of execution of the blocks may be changed, and\/or some of the blocks described may be changed, eliminated, sub-divided, or combined. Additionally, any or all of the example processes of  may be performed sequentially and\/or in parallel by, for example, separate processing threads, processors, devices, discrete logic, circuits, etc.","The example process  of  provisions a VPMN to reduce latency by, for example, the VPMN controller  and\/or the latency processor  of . The example process  begins with the example latency processor  generating latency routing rules that include identifiers of latency sensitive applications and\/or communications (block ). The latency routing rules may also specify profiles of latency sensitive communications. The latency routing rules may be specified by, for example, the client administrator  of . In other examples, the latency processor  may generate the latency routing rules from collected latency sensitive communication information stored within the latency rules database  of . After generating the latency routing rules, the example latency processor  deploys (e.g., transmits) the latency routing rules (e.g., the latency routing rules ) to VPMN(s) within, for example, the wireless mobile network  (block ). Additionally or alternatively, the latency processor  may transmit the latency routing rules to the PCRF server  and\/or the other network elements -, , and .","The example process  continues by the example latency processor  determining latency sensitive communications (and\/or latency sensitive applications) from a mobile device that match at least one identifier and\/or profile within the latency routing rules (block ). The example latency processor  may also determine the latency sensitive communications based on a volume of data associated with the communications. The example latency processor  then identifies a mobile device associated with the latency sensitive communications (block ). The example latency processor  may then transmit the identity of the mobile device and\/or latency sensitive communication and\/or application information to other VPMNs within the wireless mobile network  (block ). Further, the latency processor  creates a record of the latency sensitive communications and stores the record to the latency rules database  (block ).","The example latency processor  next determines if a latency VPMN is provisioned (block ). If a latency VPMN is not provisioned for the latency sensitive communications, the example latency processor  and\/or the network manager  of  identifies network elements (e.g., the network elements - and -) to host a latency VPMN (block ). The example latency processor  and\/or the configurers - then logically provision the latency VPMN within the wireless mobile network  (block ).","The example process  of  continues with the example device migrator  determining if the mobile device is to be communicatively coupled to the latency VPMN (block ). Additionally, if the latency VPMN is already deployed (block ), the example device migrator  determines if the mobile device is to be communicatively coupled to the latency VPMN. The example latency processor  determines if the mobile device is to be migrated to the latency VPMN based on a type of the application associated with the latency sensitive communications, a priority associated with the communications, a volume of data associated with the communications, and\/or any other criteria specified by, for example, the client administrator . If the mobile device is not to be communicatively coupled to the latency VPMN, the example latency processor  returns to determining latency sensitive communications within the wireless mobile network  (block ). Additionally or alternatively, VPMNs and\/or the network elements - and - monitor for latency sensitive communications while the example latency processor  communicatively couples identified mobile devices to the latency VPMN.","If the mobile device is to be communicatively coupled to the latency VPMN, the example device migrator  and\/or the APN manager  communicatively couples the mobile device to the latency VPMN by provisioning, for example, a corresponding SIM card with an APN of the latency VPMN (block ). The example device migrator  and\/or the APN manager  then register the mobile device with the latency VPMN (block ). The example latency processor  and\/or the latency VPMN then apply protocols and\/or analysis tools to communications associated with the mobile device (block ).","The example process  of  continues by the example latency processor  and\/or the latency VPMN determining if the mobile device is continuing to receive and\/or transmit latency sensitive communications (block ). If the communications are continuing, the example latency processor  and\/or the latency VPMN continue processing, routing, and\/or analyzing communications from the mobile device (block ). However, if the mobile device has stopped sending and\/or receiving latency sensitive communications, the example device migrator  and\/or the APN manager  communicatively couple the mobile device to a non-latency VPMN, a previously accessed VPMN, and\/or the wireless mobile network  without a VPMN (block ). The example latency processor  then monitors communications from the mobile device and\/or other mobile devices to identify latency sensitive communications (block ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 1-7"],"b":["100","502","504","506","508","510","512","514","516","130","720","722","116","100"]},"The processor platform P of the example of  includes at least one general purpose programmable processor P. The processor P executes coded instructions P and\/or P present in main memory of the processor P (e.g., within a RAM P and\/or a ROM P). The processor P may be any type of processing unit, such as a processor core, a processor and\/or a microcontroller. The processor P may execute, among other things, the example processes of  to implement the example methods and apparatus described herein.","The processor P is in communication with the main memory (including a ROM P and\/or the RAM P) via a bus P. The RAM P may be implemented by DRAM, SDRAM, and\/or any other type of RAM device, and ROM may be implemented by flash memory and\/or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memory P and the memory P may be controlled by a memory controller (not shown). One or both of the example memories P and P may be used to implement the example resource client database  and\/or the latency rules database  of .","The processor platform P also includes an interface circuit P. The interface circuit P may be implemented by any type of interface standard, such as an external memory interface, serial port, general-purpose input\/output, etc. One or more input devices P and one or more output devices P are connected to the interface circuit P.","At least some of the above described example methods and\/or apparatus are implemented by one or more software and\/or firmware programs running on a computer processor. However, dedicated hardware implementations including, but not limited to, application specific integrated circuits, programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement some or all of the example methods and\/or apparatus described herein, either in whole or in part. Furthermore, alternative software implementations including, but not limited to, distributed processing or component\/object distributed processing, parallel processing, or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the example methods and\/or apparatus described herein.","To the extent the above specification describes example components and functions with reference to particular standards and protocols, it is understood that the scope of this patent is not limited to such standards and protocols. For instance, each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission (e.g., Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)\/Internet Protocol (IP), User Datagram Protocol (UDP)\/IP, HyperText Markup Language (HTML), HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP)) represent examples of the current state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having the same general functionality. Accordingly, replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are equivalents which are contemplated by this patent and are intended to be included within the scope of the accompanying claims.","Additionally, although this patent discloses example systems including software or firmware executed on hardware, it should be noted that such systems are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example, it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware, exclusively in software, exclusively in firmware or in some combination of hardware, firmware and\/or software. Accordingly, while the above specification described example systems, methods and articles of manufacture, the examples are not the only way to implement such systems, methods and articles of manufacture. Therefore, although certain example methods, apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein, the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary, this patent covers all methods, apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":["FIGS. 2-5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 1-5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIGS. 1-7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 8A and\/or 8B"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
