---
title: Collaborative university placement exam
abstract: An exemplary proficiency examination system includes a collaborative system allowing multiple administrators across multiple educational institutions to add questions to a bank of questions from which an administrator at a single educational institution may select for a proficiency examination. The questions may be used in a placement examination for placing students into a class of an appropriate skill level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08684746&OS=08684746&RS=08684746
owner: Saint Louis University
number: 08684746
owner_city: St. Louis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110823
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/376,035 filed Aug. 23, 2010, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates to computer software and more particularly relates to software for evaluating a student's proficiency in certain skills.","2. Description of the Related Art","Current proficiency examinations systems are limited to specific applications at specific universities. Conventional examination systems include databases of questions that are asked in a linear or random fashion to a student. These conventional examination systems may be delivered to students on compact discs (CDs) or made available through a web application. The questions provided to the student during the examination are limited to a single administrator's problem sets. Thus, administrators at different educational institutions may be duplicating work of administrators at other educational institutions. Additionally, providing questions in a random or linear fashion to students may not provide the best evaluation of their proficiency in a subject area. For example, continuing to ask high difficulty questions to a student at a low skill level may consume unnecessary amounts of the student's time.","The referenced shortcomings are not intended to be exhaustive, but rather are among many that tend to impair the effectiveness of previously known techniques in proficiency examination; however, those mentioned here are sufficient to demonstrate that the methodologies appearing in the art have not been satisfactory and that a significant need exists for the techniques described and claimed in this disclosure.","From the foregoing discussion, it should be apparent that a need exists for collaborative university placement exam.","According to one aspect of the disclosure, a method includes receiving, from a first user at a first educational institution through a first user interface adapter, a first set of questions. The method also includes receiving, from a second user at a second educational institution through a second user interface adapter, a second set of questions. The method further includes combining, in a data storage, the first set of questions and the second set of questions into a global question bank. The method also includes displaying, to the first user through a first display adapter, questions from the global question bank. The method further includes receiving, from the first user through the first user interface adapter, a selection of questions from the global question bank and a difficulty for each question of the selection of questions. The method also includes generating, in the data storage, a proficiency examination from the selection of questions.","According to another aspect of the disclosure, an apparatus includes a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The processor is configured to receive, from a first user at a first educational institution, a first set of questions. The processor is also configured to receive, from a second user at a second educational institution, a second set of questions. The processor is further configured to combine the first set of questions and the second set of questions into a global question bank. The processor is also configured to receive, from the first user, a selection of questions from the second set of questions. The processor is further configured to form a proficiency examination from the first set of questions and the selection of questions.","According to a further aspect of the disclosure, a computer program product includes a computer-readable medium having code to receive, from a first user at a first educational institution, a first set of questions. The medium also includes code to receive, from a second user at a second educational institution, a second set of questions. The medium further includes code to combine the first set of questions and the second set of questions into a global question bank. The medium also includes code to receive, from the first user, a selection of questions from the second set of questions. The medium further includes code to form a proficiency examination from the first set of questions and the selection of questions.","The term \u201ccoupled\u201d is defined as connected, although not necessarily directly, and not necessarily mechanically.","The terms \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d are defined as one or more unless this disclosure explicitly requires otherwise.","The term \u201csubstantially\u201d and its variations are defined as being largely but not necessarily wholly what is specified as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, and in one non-limiting embodiment \u201csubstantially\u201d refers to ranges within 10%, preferably within 5%, more preferably within 1%, and most preferably within 0.5% of what is specified.","The terms \u201ccomprise\u201d (and any form of comprise, such as \u201ccomprises\u201d and \u201ccomprising\u201d), \u201chave\u201d (and any form of have, such as \u201chas\u201d and \u201chaving\u201d), \u201cinclude\u201d (and any form of include, such as \u201cincludes\u201d and \u201cincluding\u201d) and \u201ccontain\u201d (and any form of contain, such as \u201ccontains\u201d and \u201ccontaining\u201d) are open-ended linking verbs. As a result, a method or device that \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201chas,\u201d \u201cincludes\u201d or \u201ccontains\u201d one or more steps or elements possesses those one or more steps or elements, but is not limited to possessing only those one or more elements. Likewise, a step of a method or an element of a device that \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201chas,\u201d \u201cincludes\u201d or \u201ccontains\u201d one or more features possesses those one or more features, but is not limited to possessing only those one or more features. Furthermore, a device or structure that is configured in a certain way is configured in at least that way, but may also be configured in ways that are not listed.","Other features and associated advantages will become apparent with reference to the following detailed description of specific embodiments in connection with the accompanying drawings.","Various features and advantageous details are explained more fully with reference to the nonlimiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known starting materials, processing techniques, components, and equipment are omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention in detail. It should be understood, however, that the detailed description and the specific examples, while indicating embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only, and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions, modifications, additions, and\/or rearrangements within the spirit and\/or scope of the underlying inventive concept will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure.","An exemplary proficiency examination system may include a collaborative system allowing multiple administrators across multiple educational institutions to add questions to a bank of questions from which an administrator at a single educational institution may select for a proficiency examination. According to one embodiment, the questions may be used in a placement examination for placing students into a class of an appropriate skill level. For example, a new student entering a language program at an educational institution may be tested to determine an appropriate class for the student. The language proficiency examination may be constructed by an administrator selecting possible questions from the question bank for the exam and assigning skill levels to the possible questions. For example, each of the possible questions may correspond to a first semester language course, a second semester language course, a third semester language course, or a fourth semester language course.","After the possible questions for the language proficiency examination are selected by an administrator, a link to a web site may be provided to the administrator to provide to students to complete the examination. When a student accesses the examination through the link, the student may be asked to register with the exam and answer questions in the exam. The questions may be presented to the student in an adaptive fashion such that when a student correctly answers low difficulty questions, the examination selects higher difficulty questions for the student to complete. Questions presented to the student may be a combination of question types such as, for example, multiple choice, short answer, and multimedia questions. After a threshold number of questions for each question type are completed by the student, the examination system may determine an appropriate placement for the student in the language classes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","106","108","110","100","104","106","102","108","104","108","100"]},"In one embodiment, the user interface device  is referred to broadly and is intended to encompass a suitable processor-based device such as a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a mobile communication device or organizer device having access to the network . In a further embodiment, the user interface device  may access the Internet to access a web application or web service hosted by the server  and provide a user interface for enabling a user to enter or receive information. For example, the user may enter student data, student questions, or complete examinations stored in the system .","The network  may facilitate communications of data between the server  and the user interface device . The network  may include any type of communications network including, but not limited to, a direct PC-to-PC connection, a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a modem-to-modem connection, the Internet, a combination of the above, or any other communications network now known or later developed within the networking arts which permits two or more computers to communicate, one with another.","In one embodiment, the server  is configured to load student questions and provide an examination for evaluating a student's proficiency. Additionally, the server may access data stored in the data storage device  via a Storage Area Network (SAN) connection, a LAN, a data bus, or the like.","The data storage device  may include a hard disk, including hard disks arranged in an Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) array, a tape storage drive comprising a magnetic tape data storage device, an optical storage device, or the like. In one embodiment, the data storage device  may store student information and\/or question banks for proficiency examinations. The data may be arranged in a database and accessible through Structured Query Language (SQL) queries, or other data base query languages or operations. For example, a database may include five tables: MCQUESTIONS, SHORTQUESTIONS, MEDIAQUESTIONS, ACCOUNT_INFO, and TEST_TAKER. A MCQUESTIONS table may include fields for Question String, Answer 1, Answer 2, Answer 3, Answer 4, Correct_Answer, Subject, Account, Level, and ID Number. A SHORTQUESTIONS table may include fields for Question String, Correct_Answer, Subject, Account, Level, and ID Number. A MEDIAQUESTIONS table may include fields for Question String, Statement 1, Statement 2, Statement 3, Statement 4, Statement 5, Statement1_answer, Statement2_answer, Statement3_answer, Statement4_answer, Statement5_answer, Subject, Account, Level, and ID Number. A ACCOUNT_INFO table may includes fields for Account_Name, Password, E_Mail, TEST_TAKER_PASSWORD, and ACCOUNT_ID. A TEST_TAKER table may include fields for FirstName, LastName, Email, Semester1_score, Semester2_score, Semester3_score, Semester4_score, listening_score, recommended_placement, and test_id_num.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","200","102","102","202","200","204","206","208","200","204","206","208","204","206","208"]},"In one embodiment, the server  may submit a query to selected data storage devices ,  to collect a consolidated set of data elements associated with an individual or group of individuals. The server  may store the consolidated data set in a consolidated data storage device . In such an embodiment, the server  may refer back to the consolidated data storage device  to obtain a set of data elements associated with a specified individual. Alternatively, the server  may query each of the data storage devices , ,  independently or in a distributed query to obtain the set of data elements associated with a specified individual. In another alternative embodiment, multiple databases may be stored on a single consolidated data storage device .","The data management system  may also include files for administering proficiency examinations and tracking examination results. For example, the data management system may store hypertext markup language (HTML) files, hypertext preprocessing (PHP) files, cascaded style sheet (CSS) files, javascript (JS) files, and flash (FLV) files.","In various embodiments, the server  may communicate with the data storage devices , ,  over the data-bus . The data-bus  may comprise a SAN, a LAN, or the like. The communication infrastructure may include Ethernet, Fibre-Chanel Arbitrated Loop (FC-AL), Small Computer System Interface (SCSI), Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA), Advanced Technology Attachment (ATA), and\/or other similar data communication schemes associated with data storage and communication. For example, the server  may communicate indirectly with the data storage devices , , , ; the server  first communicating with a storage server or the storage controller .","In one example of the data management system , the first data storage device  may store data associated with questions and\/or answers relating to a course for one course offered at one educational institution. In one embodiment, the second data storage device  may store questions and\/or answers relating to a course offered at a second educational institution. The third data storage device  may store student data such as previous exams taken, evaluated proficiencies, and student profile information.","The server  may host a software application configured for evaluating student proficiency. The software application may further include modules for interfacing with the data storage devices , , , , interfacing a network , interfacing with a user through the user interface device , and the like. In a further embodiment, the server  may host an engine, application plug-in, or application programming interface (API). In another embodiment, the server  may host a web service or web accessible software application such as a Web . application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","102","110","302","304","302","302","302","302"]},"The computer system  also may include random access memory (RAM) , which may be SRAM, DRAM, SDRAM, or the like. The computer system  may utilize RAM  to store the various data structures used by a software application configured to identifying system redundancy and consolidation opportunities. The computer system  may also include read only memory (ROM)  which may be PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, optical storage, or the like. The ROM may store configuration information for booting the computer system . The RAM  and the ROM  hold user and system data.","The computer system  may also include an input\/output (I\/O) adapter , a communications adapter , a user interface adapter , and a display adapter . The I\/O adapter  and\/or the user interface adapter  may, in certain embodiments, enable a user to interact with the computer system  in order to input information for obtaining student questions, student information, and\/or student answers. In a further embodiment, the display adapter  may display a graphical user interface associated with a software or web-based application for evaluating student proficiency.","The I\/O adapter  may connect one or more storage devices , such as one or more of a hard drive, a Compact Disk (CD) drive, a floppy disk drive, a tape drive, to the computer system . The communications adapter  may be adapted to couple the computer system  to the network , which may be one or more of a LAN, WAN, and\/or the Internet. The user interface adapter  couples user input devices, such as a keyboard . a pointing device , a microphone (not shown), and a video camera (not shown) to the computer system . The display adapter  may be driven by the CPU  to control the display on the display device . The display device  may be, for example, a monitor, television, projector, or a display on a mobile device such as a cellular phone.","The present embodiments are not limited to the architecture of computer system . Rather the computer system  is provided as an example of one type of computing device that may be adapted to perform the functions of a server  and\/or the user interface device . For example, any suitable processor-based device may be utilized including without limitation, including personal data assistants (PDAs), computer game consoles, and multi-processor servers. Moreover, the present embodiments may be implemented on application specific integrated circuits (ASIC), very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuits, or other circuitry. In fact, persons of ordinary skill in the art may utilize any number of suitable structures capable of executing logical operations according to the described embodiments.","The schematic flow chart diagrams that follow are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such, the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function, logic, or effect to one or more steps, or portions thereof, of the illustrated method. Additionally, the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams, they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed, some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance, an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally, the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["400","400","402","500","502","504","506","502","504","506"]},"After a user is logged in to the administration page, the method  continues to block  for a user to select a language.  is a form illustrating selection of a language according to one embodiment. A form  may include an input , such as a drop-down box, for selecting a language, and a submit button . A user may select a language from the input  and press the button . Although languages are shown in the input , the input  may provide other options for an administrator. According to one embodiment, the input  may include different subjects such as mathematics, reading, writing, language, and\/or history.","Next, at block  an administrator selects a type of question to add, edit, or delete to the language proficiency examination selected at block .  is a form illustrating a menu screen for a language proficiency examination according to one embodiment. A form  may include an edit option  for multiple choice questions, an edit option  for short answer questions, and an edit option  for multimedia questions. Although only three types of questions are illustrated in the form , additional question types may be present in the form . For example, other question types may include true\/false questions, speech response questions, and calculated numerical response questions. Selecting one of the edit options , , and  allows the use to add, edit, and\/or delete questions of the corresponding question type.","After an administrator selects one of the question types, the method  proceeds to block  to determine the type of question the administrator selected for editing. If the multiple choice question type is selected, the method  proceeds to allow the administrator to add, edit, and\/or delete multiple choice questions at block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","802","804","806","800","804","806","802"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","902","904","904","904","904","904","906","908","902","902","904","906","906","902","904","906","908"],"i":["a","b","c","d","e","a","e","a","e"]},"According to one embodiment, when an administrator is entering questions and answers in the inputs  and -a virtual keyboard may appear on the administrator's screen. The virtual keyboard allows an administrator with a computer system operating in one language to enter examination questions in a different language. For example, in a language proficiency examination an administrator may be entering questions in the Spanish language with an English language keyboard. The virtual keyboard may include accented vowels present in the Spanish language but not present on the English language keyboard. Alternatively, the virtual keyboard may display an entire virtual Spanish language keyboard allowing the administrator to enter text with, for example, a mouse, trackpad, trackball, stylus, or other input device. According to one embodiment, the proficiency examination system is UTF-8 compliant to support language input in any language including Chinese and Arabic.","Referring back to , if the question type determined at block  is short answer then the method  proceeds to allow the administrator to add, edit, and\/or delete short answer questions at block .  is a form illustrating adding a short answer question to a language proficiency examination according to one embodiment. A form  may include a question input , an answer input , a skill level input , and a submit button . An administrator may enter a short answer question into the input , an answer into the input , and select a skill level in the input . After filling the inputs , ,  the administrator presses the button , and the short answer question entered into the form  is added to the database.","Referring back to , if the question type determined at block  is multimedia then the method  proceeds to allow the user to add, edit, and\/or delete multimedia questions at block .  is a form illustrating adding a multimedia question to a language proficiency examination according to one embodiment. A form  may include a link input  for entering a link to the multimedia file. The multimedia file may be, for example, an audio or video file for display to a user along with questions about the content of the multimedia file. According to one embodiment, the multimedia file is uploaded to the server and stored on the server. Alternatively, the link to the multimedia file may be stored on the server. When the multimedia file is uploaded to the server, the server may restrict the types or sizes of allowable multimedia files. For example, the server may limit multimedia files to mpeg-1 layer 3 (MP3) audio files with a file size smaller than one megabyte (MB). The administrator then enters questions and answers into inputs -. According to one embodiment, the inputs -may be true or false questions related to the content contained in the multimedia file. After the administrator selects a skill level in an input , the administrator presses a submit button  to add the question to the database.","According to one embodiment, a multimedia question may include a multimedia response. For example, a terminal or computer in use by the student during administration of the proficiency examination may include a microphone and\/or video camera. After reading a prompt or question, a recording may start to record the student's speech or motion. For example, a student may be prompted to describe an object in Spanish as a recording during the proficiency examination. In another example, a student may be prompted to describe an object in sign language to the video camera during the proficiency examination.","Referring back to , the method  continues to block  to determine if the administrator will add, edit, or delete additional questions from the database. If the administrator will add, edit, or delete more questions, then the method  proceeds to block . If the administrator has completed administering the questions database then the administrator may log off at block .","Collaboration between educational institutions allows an administrator to enter questions from a first educational institution onto a proficiency examination at a second educational institution. That is, the educational institutions may share questions and answers for the proficiency tests. When an administrator adds a question to their educational institution's proficiency examination, the question may have a different skill level. For example, if a first educational institution has a two semester per school year calendar and a second educational institution has a three semester per school year calendar, semester 1 questions at the first educational institution may correspond to semester 2 questions at the second educational institution. Thus, when an administrator adds a question to their proficiency examination from another educational institution, the administrator may tag the question with a skill level. According to one embodiment, search functionality is provided for an administrator to search for questions relating to a specific topic or keyword in other educational institutions' questions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1202","1202","1202"]},"Allowing questions to be shared across educational institutions decreases the time for a new educational institution to complete setting up proficiency examinations. Additionally, the current educational institutions gain insight from administrators across multiple educational institutions, which improves the accuracy of each educational institutions examination.","The collaboration may also allow testing for a proficiency at a first educational institution for a second educational institution. For example, a first educational institution may offer Spanish language classes, but a prospective student of the first educational institution may be unable to travel to the first educational institution for proficiency testing. The student may instead travel to a nearby second educational institution for completing the Spanish language proficiency examination, despite the second education institution only offering French language classes.","After an administrator has added questions to the proficiency examination, the system may determine the proficiency examination is ready to administer. The system may use a number of criteria to determine when an examination is ready to administer. For example, a proficiency examination may have a minimum of 20 multiple choice, 15 short answer, and 5 multimedia questions before the examination is ready to administer. According to one embodiment, the system is configurable by the administrator or other official to have minimum question number thresholds before an examination is ready for administration.","After the proficiency examination is ready for examination the administrator is presented with notification and a link to distribute the examination to students.  is a form illustrating a language proficiency examination ready for completion by a student according to one embodiment. A form  may include a notification and link . The link  may be, for example, distributed to exam proctors in a classroom or emailed to students. Additionally, a link  is provided to the administrator for taking the examination. This may allow the administrator to test the examination before distribution to students.","When students complete the proficiency examination scores are recorded in the system. According to one embodiment, the scores and a record of the questions attempted and student answers to the questions are recorded. According to another embodiment, no scores are recorded in the system after the student receives their score for the proficiency examination. If scores are stored, the scores may be searchable by an administrator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1402","1404","1402","1404"]},"After the score is displayed to an administrator a decision may be made for placement according to the student's proficiency. For example, in a language proficiency examination, a student's score may be separated according to the percentage of questions correctly answered for each skill level or semester of class. If the student has exceeded a desired percentage of correct answers the student is determined to be placed in the corresponding semester of class. For example, if a student has scored a 100% proficiency in semester 1 questions, a 100% proficiency in semester 2 questions, a 95% proficiency in semester 3 questions, and a 90% proficiency in semester 4 questions the student may be placed in the semester 4 language class. According to one embodiment, the system may be designed to automatically determine a student's placement based on results of the proficiency examination.","The system may generate a proficiency examination from the questions entered or selected from other educational institutions by the administrator. According to one embodiment, the proficiency examination generated for each student is adaptive to the student's answers in the proficiency examination. For example, as a student answers low skill level questions correctly, the student is presented with questions from higher skill levels. If the higher skill level questions are incorrectly answered, the student may be presented with lower skill level questions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1500","1502","1504","1508","1506"]},"At block  the percentage of correct answers for the current semester level is calculated. If the percentage is at or above a passing threshold the flow chart  continues to block  and block  to increase the semester level. If the percentage is below a passing threshold the flow chart  continues to block  and block  to decrease the semester level.","At block  the number of questions presented to the student is calculated. If the question count is less than the question type threshold the flow chart  continues to block  and to block  to randomly select another question for the student from the new current semester level. If the question count is at or above the question type threshold the flow chart  continues to block  and  to change the question type and randomly select another question for the student at the current semester level. If all questions have been asked or all question type thresholds have been met or exceeded the flow chart  continues to block  and block  to calculate and display a placement recommendation for the student.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1602","1604","1606","1608","1610","1612"]},"In one embodiment, the method may further include steps for validating test questions by performing a question efficacy analysis. For example, question efficacy analysis may be performed on test question data collected for each test question or groups of test questions. The test question data may be collected from a database of exam question responses provided by users of the exam. In a further embodiment, a report indicating which questions are good predictors of semester placement and which questions are poor predictors of semester placement may be generated from the test question data.","In such an embodiment, the question efficacy analysis may enable test administrators to identify problematic questions and then either remove or reword the problematic questions. In one example, a test question may be too difficult for the semester placement level to which it is assigned. In such an example, the problematic question may be identified based upon a relatively high number of students answering the question incorrectly. The report generated may provide an indicator, such as, \u201cineffective\u201d or \u201cthis question has no correlation to placement at this level; consider rewording or reclassifying the question.\u201d","In a particular embodiment, the method of question efficacy analysis may include the steps shown in . In one embodiment, the CPU  may define  a date range for efficacy analysis. In a particular embodiment the processor may define  the date range in response to a user input received by the user interface adapter . Next, the CPU  may select  the semester level for question efficacy analysis. Similarly, the CPU  may select  the semester level in response to a user input received by the user interface adapter . Next, the I\/O adapter  may obtain  question data from a database of question data. The database of question data may be stored, for example, on the data storage device . In an alternative embodiment, the communications adapter  may obtain  the question data from a database of question data stored on a remote data storage device as illustrated according to the system  of .","In one embodiment, the CPU  may then calculate  the percentage of correct answer questions for each question ID in the selected range of IDs in the database. The CPU  may then determine  whether the percentage is above a threshold value. In one embodiment, the threshold value is a preset default value. Alternatively, the threshold value may be received by the user interface from a user. If the percentage is above the threshold then the CPU  may classify  the question as \u201ceffective.\u201d If the percentage is below the threshold, the CPU  may classify  the question as \u201cineffective.\u201d Finally, the CPU  may generate  a question efficacy report based upon the question classifications , .","In one embodiment, the report may include information for one or more analyzed questions. The report may include the question identification number. The report may also include a semester level classification. Additionally, the report may include the percentage of students enrolled above the semester level classification that successfully answered the question. Additionally, the report may include a recommendation, such as \u201cquestion being answered as expected\u201d or \u201crevisit question or reassign to a higher semester level.\u201d One of ordinary skill in the art may recognize a variety of alternative criteria that may be suitable for question efficacy analysis and a variety of alternative report output formats and contents.","One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the various process steps of the methods described above may be performed, in whole or in part, by one or more hardware components, including but not limited to, the server  and\/or an associated CPU . Further, one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the various hardware components described herein may be configured to perform the described operations using computer executable code. For example, the computer operations may be defined in one or more software modules, which may be stored on a tangible computer readable medium. Then the code is loaded and executed by a hardware component, such as the CPU , the hardware component may be configured as a hardware module suitable for carrying out the operations specified by the computer executable code. Thus, each of the method steps described herein may be carried out by one or more specially configured hardware and\/or software modules programmed according to computer readable code stored on a tangible computer program product, such as a data storage disk or chip.","Although the above embodiments and examples illustrate a language proficiency examination, the system of the present disclose is not limited to determining a student's language proficiency. The proficiency examination system may also test student's skills in other subjects such as reading, writing, mathematics, science, and history. Additionally, the proficiency examination system is not limited to university environments but may be applied to other educational arrangements. For example, a corporation may use the proficiency examination system for employer-based testing in safety courses or company policies.","All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the apparatus and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept, spirit and scope of the invention. In addition, modifications may be made to the disclosed apparatus and components may be eliminated or substituted for the components described herein where the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit, scope, and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The following drawings form part of the present specification and are included to further demonstrate certain aspects of the present invention. The invention may be better understood by reference to one or more of these drawings in combination with the detailed description of specific embodiments presented herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 17"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
