---
title: Engineered top infeed hopper system
abstract: A baler for making compacted bales of a cellulosic and preferably woody biomass material, the baler comprising: a housing defining a compaction chamber therein, wherein the housing comprises a top wall, an infeed opening defined in the top wall for introducing the material into the compaction chamber, and a hopper system comprising: first and second doors pivotably attached to the housing in opposing array over the infeed opening, wherein each door comprises a pivot having a plurality of fingers extending in planar array therefrom and defining a plurality of recesses disposed therebetween, and wherein the fingers of the first and second doors are staggered such that the fingers of each door are positioned opposite to and receivable by the recesses of the other door, and actuator means for pivoting the doors upwardly to form a chute for directing the material toward the infeed opening, and downwardly to intermesh and preferably interlock the fingers and substantially cover the infeed opening.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08205546&OS=08205546&RS=08205546
owner: Forest Concepts, LLC
number: 08205546
owner_city: Auburn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110808
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT LICENSE RIGHTS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT","EXAMPLE","CITATIONS"],"p":["This application claims priority from and is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 12\/584,810 filed Sep. 11, 2009 (U.S. Pat. No. 7,992,491), which is a continuation-in-part of patent application Ser. No. 12\/386,964 filed Apr. 24, 2009 now abandoned, and provisional application No. 61\/125,545 filed Apr. 25, 2008. This application also relates to patent application Ser. No. 12\/887,916 filed Sep. 22, 2010, and patent application Ser. No. 13\/195,374 filed Aug. 1, 2011. The contents of each of these prior and related applications are hereby incorporated in their entireties by reference herein.","This invention was made with government support by the CSREES Small Business Innovation Research program of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, grant numbers 2005-33610-15483 and 2006-33610-17595. The government has certain rights in the invention.","Our invention relates to harvesters, particularly balers, and provides a top infeed hopper system engineered to receive and direct cellulosic and particularly woody biomass materials into a baling chamber.","In 1978 forestry researchers at Virginia Polytechnic Institute (VPI) conducted field tests using a hay baler powered by the hydraulics of a knuckle-boom loader and concluded that baling offers considerable cost and operational advantages as a method of recovering forest residues for either fiber or fuel (1; see the appended Citations).","The VPI researchers then built and tested a prototype in-woods logging residue baler (2-7). Following testing of the VPI prototype baler in the North Western U.S.A. in the early 1980's, several design modifications were suggested for a \u201csecond generation\u201d baler (8-9), including the need for a top infeed to allow processing of small size material (See (8) at pp. 29-30).","Various biomass bundlers and balers have been proposed in the patent literature (10). Presently the only commercial systems are a bundler, the John Deere 1490D Energy Wood Harvester (11), and a round baler, the SuperTrak WB55 Biobaler\u2122 (12).","Particularly relevant to the present invention are the open top finger baler disclosures of Risoda Pty. Limited (13).","The present inventors have reported their progress under a federal contract from the USDA CSREES SBIR program to develop better methods to collect and transport woody biomass (14-20). Our goal has been to engineer more efficient recovery and transport of woody biomass to second-generation bioenergy and biofuel plants.","Here we describe an infeed hopper system suitable for receiving and directing cellulosic biomass materials into a baling chamber situated below the hopper. Our invention provides a baler for making compacted bales of a cellulosic and preferably woody biomass material, the baler comprising: a housing defining a compaction chamber therein, wherein the housing comprises a top wall, an infeed opening defined in the top wall for introducing the material into the compaction chamber, and a hopper system comprising: first and second doors pivotably attached to the housing in opposing array over the infeed opening, wherein each door comprises a pivot having a plurality of fingers extending in planar array therefrom and defining a plurality of recesses disposed therebetween, and wherein the fingers of the first and second doors are staggered such that the fingers of each door are positioned opposite to and receivable by the recesses of the other door, and actuator means for pivoting the doors upwardly to form a chute for directing the material toward the infeed opening, and downwardly to intermesh and preferably interlock the fingers and substantially cover the infeed opening.","We have applied engineering design principles to the long-felt need of providing a top infeed system for cellulosic and particularly woody biomass balers.","The term \u201ccellulosic biomass\u201d as used herein refers generally to encompass all plant materials harvested by baling for use as industrial feedstocks, including woody biomass, energy crops like switchgrass, miscanthus, and hemp, and agricultural crop residues including corn stover.","The term \u201cwoody biomass\u201d as used herein refers to all parts of trees, shrubs and woody plants useable as industrial feedstocks for fiber, bioenergy, and biofuels, including timber harvest residues and land clearing debris, small-diameter trees, shrubs and brush, dedicated energy crops like willow and poplar, tree service prunings, and residential green waste.","The following Table lists the reference numerals used in the description of the currently preferred embodiment that is shown in the FIGURES.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["10","baler"]},{"entry":["12","platen assembly"]},{"entry":["14","infeed chamber assembly"]},{"entry":["16","compaction chamber assembly"]},{"entry":["18","connector"]},{"entry":["20","baling chamber"]},{"entry":["22","foot"]},{"entry":["24","framework, platen assembly"]},{"entry":["26","hydraulic cylinder, compression"]},{"entry":["28","platen, compression"]},{"entry":["30","framework, upper infeed chamber assembly"]},{"entry":["32","infeed opening"]},{"entry":["34","hopper door, front"]},{"entry":["36","hopper door, rear"]},{"entry":["38","hinge pin"]},{"entry":["40","side wall, infeed chamber assembly"]},{"entry":["42","floor plate, infeed chamber assembly"]},{"entry":["44","cylinder, front hopper door"]},{"entry":["46","cylinder, rear hopper door"]},{"entry":["48","upper wall, compression chamber assembly"]},{"entry":["50","lower wall, compression chamber assembly"]},{"entry":["52","door, contingency"]},{"entry":["54","hinge"]},{"entry":["56","platen, ejection"]},{"entry":["58","door, discharge"]},{"entry":["60","hydraulic cylinder, ejection"]},{"entry":["62","hydraulic cylinder, discharge"]},{"entry":["64","door latch"]},{"entry":["66","hydraulic cylinder, door latch"]},{"entry":["68","finger, front door"]},{"entry":["70","pivot, front door"]},{"entry":["72","recess, front door"]},{"entry":["74","bracket, front door"]},{"entry":["76","gusset, front door"]},{"entry":["78","latch bar, front door"]},{"entry":["80","pivot, rear door"]},{"entry":["82","finger, rear door"]},{"entry":["84","recess, rear door"]},{"entry":["86","latch finger, rear door"]},{"entry":["88","notch"]},{"entry":["90","internal stop"]},{"entry":["92","external stop"]},{"entry":["94","bracket, rear door"]},{"entry":["96","gusset, rear door"]},{"entry":["98","shear bar"]},{"entry":["100","gap"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","10","12","14","16","18","14","16","20","16","22","10"]},"Nomenclature with respect to the baler  shown in the FIGURES: toward the platen assembly  is referred to herein for illustrative purposes as \u201cfront\u201d, and toward the compaction chamber assembly  as \u201crear\u201d.","The platen assembly  has a welded steel framework  that anchors and supports two telescoping hydraulic cylinders  (three-stage: 6, 5, and 4 inches) that attach to and move a compression platen  reciprocally through the baling chamber .","When fully retracted (as shown in this view) the compression platen  forms the front wall of the infeed chamber assembly . The infeed chamber assembly  has an upper framework  that demarcates a large rectangular infeed opening . A pair of closeable hopper doors ,  is mounted in opposing array over the infeed opening . Each of the doors ,  is pivotally connected to the framework  by a hinge pin . When raised (as shown here), the hopper doors ,  create an open chute through which a grapple loader (not shown) can drop and push biomass materials through the infeed opening  into the baling chamber . When closed (see ), the hopper doors ,  intermesh and preferably interlock together in horizontal planar array so as to substantially close the infeed opening  and thereby form an upper wall of the infeed chamber assembly  without obstructing transit of the compression platen .","The infeed chamber assembly  also has two side walls  and a floor plate  that, together with the retracted compression platen  and the upper framework  with closed hopper doors ,  define the front end or infeed compartment of the baling chamber . Construction and operation of the hopper doors ,  is discussed in detail below. Shown here is a single 2\u2033 hydraulic cylinder  that moves the front hopper door , and two 2\u2033 hydraulic cylinders  that move the rear hopper door .","The compaction chamber assembly  houses the rear end or compression compartment of the baling chamber . The compaction chamber assembly  has fixed upper and lower walls , . The rear wall or end cap is configured as a contingency door  (shown open) that is mounted on lateral hinges . The contingency door  is bolted shut during the baling process but can be manually opened, if need be, to remove defective bales from the baling chamber ; and for this purpose the compression hydraulic cylinders  are configured to push the compression platen  at least the entire length of the compaction chamber assembly .","An ejection platen  and a discharge door  form the sidewalls of the compaction chamber assembly . When bale formation is completed, the discharge door  is cantilevered downward into a horizontal platform (as shown in this view). Two pairs of telescopic hydraulic cylinders  (two stage: 4 and 3 inches) then move the ejection platen  to push the bale across the compaction chamber assembly  and onto the opened discharge door .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["10","34","36","52","58","62","58","64","66"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["34","68","70","38","68","70","72","74","76","68","44","78","70","68","70"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["36","80","82","84","82","68","34","80","86","78","34","34","36","32","86","88","90","88","78","90","34","36","86","92","36","34","36","30","32","36","94","96","46","36","98","80","84","68","86"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["10","34","36","32","20","70","80","28"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["10","34","36"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-7D","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7C"],"b":["10","34","36","34","36","34","36","30","14","34","30","34","36","36","34","34","36"]},"The hopper doors ,  are then pivoted concurrently into full horizontal closure (). These closing movements are coordinated so that the rear hopper door  reaches horizontal first, thereby presenting its notched latch fingers  for engagement by the door latches  on the first hopper door .","As the overlapping hopper doors ,  press the overflowing biomass material downward through the infeed opening , there is an opportunity for some of the material to become entrapped between the fingers , ,  and within the closing recesses , . We have found that configuring the hopper doors ,  so that about a one inch gap  of recess space ,  remains between the fully intermeshed fingers , ,  is suitable for woody biomass materials like arborist tree trimmings. Any such materials that become entrapped between the framework  and the outer latch bars  or the rear pivot  tend to be pulled into the baling chamber  as the compression platen  advances, and any materials entrapped between the front pivot  and the frame  are pushed and broken off against the rear shear bars . For forestry applications the latch fingers  can additionally be provided with edged shear bars, knives, or slashing saws (not shown), as can any of the fingers , .","Following bill of materials is for the hopper door assembly shown in the FIGURES, sized for an infeed opening  measuring 48\u2033 wide\u00d730\u2033 long.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["REF #","PART NAME","DESCRIPTION"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["34","Front hopper door",{}]},{"entry":["70","Pivot","3.25\u2033 \u00d7 0.375\u2033 \u00d7 48\u2033 tube"]},{"entry":["68","Fingers (7)","2\u2033 \u00d7 3\u2033 \u00d7 3\/16\u2033 \u00d7 24\u2033 tube"]},{"entry":["74","Bracket (1)","1\u2033 \u00d7 2\u2033 \u00d7 5.125\u2033 bar, 1\u2033 radius"]},{"entry":["76","Gusset (1)","\u00bc\u2033 \u00d7 3\u2033 \u00d7 5.2\u2033 plate"]},{"entry":["78","Latch bars (2)","1\u2033 \u00d7 1.25\u2033 \u00d7 2\u2033 bar"]},{"entry":["44","Hydraulic (1)","2\u2033 dual acting cylinder \u00d7 16\u2033; 3000 psi"]},{"entry":["36","Rear hopper door"]},{"entry":["80","Pivot (1)","3.25\u2033 \u00d7 0.375\u2033 \u00d7 48\u2033 tube"]},{"entry":["82","Fingers (6)","2\u2033 \u00d7 3\u2033 \u00d7 3\/16\u2033 \u00d7 25\u2033 tube"]},{"entry":["86","Latch fingers (2)","3\u2033 \u00d7 4\u2033 \u00d7 \u00bc\u2033 \u00d7 25\u2033 tube"]},{"entry":["94","Brackets (2)","1\u2033 \u00d7 2.5\u2033 \u00d7 4.25\u2033 bar"]},{"entry":["96","Gussets (2)","\u00bc\u2033 \u00d7 3\u2033 \u00d7 5.2\u2033 plate"]},{"entry":["98","Shear bars (6)","2\u2033 \u00d7 2\u2033 \u00d7 \u00bc\u2033 \u00d7 4\u2033 angle"]},{"entry":["90","Internal stops (2)","1\u2033 \u00d7 1.625\u2033 \u00d7 2.5\u2033 bar"]},{"entry":["92","External stops (2)","\u00be\u2033 \u00d7 1\u2033 \u00d7 1\u2033 bar"]},{"entry":["46","Hydraulics (2)","2\u2033 dual acting cylinder \u00d7 16\u2033; 3000 psi"]},{"entry":["38","Hinge pins (2)","2\u2033 schedule 80 steel pipe \u00d7 55\u2033"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},"The contents of each of the following publications are incorporated in their entireties by reference herein.\n\n","While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described, it will be appreciated that various changes can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
