---
title: Selective linking of message accounts
abstract: The present application relates to message account linking that allows users to selectively link message accounts and customize those linked message accounts. In one embodiment, the user selects a number of message accounts for selective linking. A message application updates a message account database to selectively link the message accounts and create a combined message box. When a user selects the combined message box for display, all messages from the selectively linked message accounts are displayed. In one embodiment, a user can create multiple combined message boxes on a single device, and may assign names to each of the combined message boxes. In yet another embodiment, an icon associated with a combined message box is added to the device's home screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572194&OS=08572194&RS=08572194
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08572194
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110610
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application relates to message account linking and, in particular, to selective linking of message accounts and customization of linked message accounts.","Devices with multiple message accounts are well known. For example, a user may maintain several email accounts on his or her mobile phone (e.g., Hotmail, Exchange, Gmail, Yahoo! mail). The mobile phone allows the user to view, send, and receive messages from these various message accounts. In many instances, a user may employ the device to access multiple work related email accounts and multiple personal email accounts. Typically, however, each of these accounts must be accessed separately and a user may view only one account at a time.","Some devices automatically provide a message box that allows a user to view messages from all message accounts on the device in one unified message box. An example of this is the iPhone's \u201cAll Inboxes\u201d message box. Such global message boxes automatically group all message accounts together. In these circumstances, the user may view only messages from a single account or messages from all accounts at a given time.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","The present application is directed to selective linking of message accounts. For example, on a device containing multiple message accounts, a user may individually select a group of the message accounts to be linked. The selected message accounts are then linked to create a combined message box. The combined message box provides a display of messages from each of the selected message accounts.","In one embodiment, two or more combined message boxes can be generated on a single device by selectively linking two or more groups of message accounts. Each of the combined message boxes provides a display of the messages from its corresponding linked message accounts.","In another embodiment, a custom name can be provided for a combined message box. Alternatively, a generic name can be assigned to the combined message box.","In another embodiment, an icon associated with a combined message box is added to a user interface. This icon may be used to generate a display of the combined message box, showing all messages from the selectively linked accounts that form the linked message box.","In another embodiment, the message accounts may be selectively linked and displayed using a message application native to the device. Alternatively, the device's operating system or a third party application may perform the selective linking of the message accounts and display the combined message box. Depending on the method used, an API may be required.","In yet another embodiment, a selectively linked message account may be unlinked from a combined message box without removing the unlinked message account from the device.","The foregoing and other objects, features, and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description, which proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","102","104"]},"The illustrated mobile device  can include a controller or processor  (e.g., signal processor, microprocessor, ASIC, or other control and processing logic circuitry) for performing such tasks as signal coding, data processing, input\/output processing, power control, and\/or other functions. An operating system  can control the allocation and usage of the components  and support for one or more application programs . The application programs can include common mobile computing applications (e.g., email applications, calendars, contact managers, web browsers, messaging applications), or any other computing application. An API  can also be used for selectively linking message accounts on the device.","The illustrated mobile device  can include memory . Memory  can include non-removable memory  and\/or removable memory . The non-removable memory  can include RAM, ROM, flash memory, a hard disk, or other well-known memory storage technologies. The removable memory  can include flash memory or a Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card, which is well known in GSM communication systems, or other well-known memory storage technologies, such as \u201csmart cards.\u201d The memory  can be used for storing data and\/or code for running the operating system  and the application programs . Example data can include web pages, text, images, sound files, video data, or other data sets to be sent to and\/or received from one or more network servers or other devices via one or more wired or wireless networks. The memory  can be used to store a subscriber identifier, such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI), and an equipment identifier, such as an International Mobile Equipment Identifier (IMEI). Such identifiers can be transmitted to a network server to identify users and equipment.","The mobile device  can support one or more input devices , such as a touch screen , microphone , camera , physical keyboard  and\/or trackball  and one or more output devices , such as a speaker  and a display . Other possible output devices (not shown) can include piezoelectric or other haptic output devices. Some devices can serve more than one input\/output function. For example, touch screen  and display  can be combined in a single input\/output device.","A wireless modem  can be coupled to an antenna (not shown) and can support two-way communications between the processor  and external devices, as is well understood in the art. The modem  is shown generically and can include a cellular modem for communicating with the mobile communication network  and\/or other radio-based modems (e.g., Bluetooth or Wi-Fi). The wireless modem  is typically configured for communication with one or more cellular networks, such as a GSM network for data and voice communications within a single cellular network, between cellular networks, or between the mobile device and a public switched telephone network (PSTN).","The mobile device can further include at least one input\/output port , a power supply , a satellite navigation system receiver , such as a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, an accelerometer , and\/or a physical connector , which can be a USB port, IEEE 1394 (FireWire) port, and\/or RS-232 port. The illustrated components  are not required or all-inclusive, as any components can deleted and other components can be added.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["210","220","230","240"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","320","330","350","360","300","310","320","330","350","360"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["410","420","430","410","420","430","450","410","420","450","450","410","420","450","430","450","430","450"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["510","530","530","530","550","530","550","550","551","552","553","554","551","553","510","530","553","551","510","550","553","554","554","554"]},"The operating system  may use values in the message account database  to update the application database , which may include an icon table . As is well known in the art, icons may generally be used to initiate actions on a device, such as launching an application. In one embodiment of the present invention, when message accounts are selectively linked to create a combined message box, the operating system  may update an icon table  in an application database  so that an icon associated with the new combined message box is added to a device home screen. In another example, the operating system  may update the icon table  in an application database  so that an icon associated with a particular message account is removed from a device home screen. The exemplary icon table shown at  includes multiple fields including an icon panel ID field , an application ID field , an image field , and a parameters field . In one embodiment, the operating system may generate a new icon panel with such that the parameters field  contains a combined message box ID and the app ID field  corresponds to a message application. When the associated icon is selected by a user, the combined message box ID can be passed as a parameter to the message application, causing the message application to launch with the combined message box as an entry page.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["630","630","650","660","670","650","651","652","660","661","662","670","671","672","650","660","670","630"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["710","720","730","740"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["810","820","830","840","850"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["910","911","912","913","914","915"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1010","1011","1012","1013","1011","1012","1013","1013","1012","1010","1020","1020","1021","1011","1010","1020","1021","1020"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1110","1120","1130","1140","1130","1140","1130","1150","1140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1210","1230","1250","1230"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1310","1316","1311","1313","1310","1314","1315","1310","1311","1313","1316","1314","1315"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":"1400"},"In example environment , various types of services (e.g., computing services) are provided by a cloud . For example, the cloud  can comprise a collection of computing devices , , , which may be located centrally or distributed, that provide cloud-based services to various types of users and devices connected via a network such as the Internet. The implementation environment  can be used in different ways to accomplish computing tasks. For example, some tasks (e.g., processing user input and presenting a user interface) can be performed on local computing devices (e.g., connected devices , , ) while other tasks (e.g., storage of data to be used in subsequent processing) can be performed in the cloud . In one example, the cloud  can store the message account database, including those tables that contain information related to selectively linked message accounts. In this way, selective linking of message accounts on one device can be applied across all devices.","In example environment , the cloud  provides services for connected devices , ,  with a variety of screen capabilities. Connected device  represents a device with a computer screen  (e.g., a mid-size screen). For example, connected device  could be a personal computer such as a desktop computer, laptop, notebook, netbook, or the like. Connected device  represents a device with a mobile device screen  (e.g., a small size screen). For example, connected device  could be a mobile phone, smart phone, personal digital assistant, tablet computer, or the like. Connected device  represents a device with a large screen . For example, connected device  could be a television screen (e.g., a smart television) or another device connected to a television (e.g., a set-top box or gaming console) or the like. One or more of the connected devices , ,  can include touch screen capabilities. Touchscreens can accept input in different ways. For example, capacitive touchscreens detect touch input when an object (e.g., a fingertip or stylus) distorts or interrupts an electrical current running across the surface. As another example, touchscreens can use optical sensors to detect touch input when beams from the optical sensors are interrupted. Physical contact with the surface of the screen is not necessary for input to be detected by some touchscreens. Devices without screen capabilities also can be used in example environment . For example, the cloud  can provide services for one or more computers (e.g., server computers) without displays.","Services can be provided by the cloud  through service providers , or through other providers of online services (not depicted). For example, cloud services can be customized to the screen size, display capability, and\/or touch screen capability of a particular connected device (e.g., connected devices , , ).","In example environment , the cloud  provides the technologies and solutions described herein to the various connected devices , ,  using, at least in part, the service providers . For example, the service providers  can provide a centralized solution for various cloud-based services. The service providers  can manage service subscriptions for users and\/or devices (e.g., for the connected devices , ,  and\/or their respective users).","Although the operations of some of the disclosed methods are described in a particular, sequential order for convenient presentation, it should be understood that this manner of description encompasses rearrangement, unless a particular ordering is required by specific language set forth below. For example, operations described sequentially may in some cases be rearranged or performed concurrently. Moreover, for the sake of simplicity, the attached figures may not show the various ways in which the disclosed methods can be used in conjunction with other methods.","Any of the disclosed methods can be implemented as computer-executable instructions stored on one or more computer-readable storage media (e.g., non-transitory computer-readable media, such as one or more optical media discs, volatile memory components (such as DRAM or SRAM), or nonvolatile memory components (such as hard drives)) and executed on a computer (e.g., any commercially available computer, including smart phones or other mobile devices that include computing hardware). Any of the computer-executable instructions for implementing the disclosed techniques as well as any data created and used during implementation of the disclosed embodiments can be stored on one or more computer-readable media (e.g., non-transitory computer-readable media). The computer-executable instructions can be part of, for example, a dedicated software application or a software application that is accessed or downloaded via a web browser or other software application (such as a remote computing application). Such software can be executed, for example, on a single local computer (e.g., any suitable commercially available computer) or in a network environment (e.g., via the Internet, a wide-area network, a local-area network, a client-server network (such as a cloud computing network), or other such network) using one or more network computers.","For clarity, only certain selected aspects of the software-based implementations are described. Other details that are well known in the art are omitted. For example, it should be understood that the disclosed technology is not limited to any specific computer language or program. For instance, the disclosed technology can be implemented by software written in C++, Java, Perl, JavaScript, Adobe Flash, or any other suitable programming language. Similarly, the methods and systems disclosed herein are not limited to any particular type of messaging application and may include message applications provided with a device, message applications provided by third parties, or both. Additionally, if a messaging service is integrated within an operating system, then the operating system may perform the steps and procedures disclosed herein as performed by applications. In some situations, an Application Programming Interface (API) or a Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI) may be used when carrying out the methods or implementing the systems disclosed herein. Likewise, the disclosed technology is not limited to any particular computer or type of hardware. Certain details of suitable computers and hardware are well known and need not be set forth in detail in this disclosure.","Furthermore, any of the software-based embodiments (comprising, for example, computer-executable instructions for causing a computer to perform any of the disclosed methods) can be uploaded, downloaded, or remotely accessed through a suitable communication means. Such suitable communication means include, for example, the Internet, the World Wide Web, an intranet, software applications, cable (including fiber optic cable), magnetic communications, electromagnetic communications (including RF, microwave, and infrared communications), electronic communications, or other such communication means.","The disclosed methods, apparatus, and systems should not be construed as limiting in any way. Instead, the present disclosure is directed toward all novel and nonobvious features and aspects of the various disclosed embodiments, alone and in various combinations and subcombinations with one another. The disclosed methods, apparatus, and systems are not limited to any specific aspect or feature or combination thereof, nor do the disclosed embodiments require that any one or more specific advantages be present or problems be solved.","In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the disclosed invention may be applied, it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are only examples of the invention and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. Rather, the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims. We therefore claim as our invention all that comes within the scope of these claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
