---
title: Supervising and recovering software components associated with medical diagnostics instruments
abstract: A system for applying a recovery mechanism to a network of medical diagnostics instruments is provided herein. The system includes the following: a plurality of medical diagnostics instruments, each associated with a network connected component; a plurality of communication modules, each associated with a corresponding one of the plurality of network connected components, wherein each one of the plurality of communication modules is arranged to report on malfunctioning components that are network connected with the corresponding component, and a recovery module, configured to: (i) obtain reports from the communication modules; (ii) re-establish the malfunctioning components; and (iii) notify all communication modules of the re-establishment of the malfunctioning components, wherein the communication modules are further configured to re-establish connection between the corresponding components and the re-established components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489251&OS=09489251&RS=09489251
owner: BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.
number: 09489251
owner_city: Hercules
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Technical Field","The present invention relates to the field of monitoring software components and more specifically, to the monitoring and recovering of software components associated with medical diagnostics instruments.","2. Discussion of Related Art","There is an ongoing trend of more and more diagnostics instruments becoming connected via a communication network for both monitoring and managing purposes. One of the characteristics of the data being processed is that it is usually private medical data. This requirement imposes, inter alia, data security measures. Additionally, as diagnostics instruments may be required around the clock, it would be advantageous to reduce mean time between failures of the diagnostics instrument.","One aspect of the invention provides a system for applying a recovery mechanism to a network of medical diagnostics instruments. The system may include the following features: a plurality of medical diagnostics instruments, each associated with a network connected component; a plurality of communication modules, each associated with a corresponding one of the plurality of network connected computer software components, wherein each one of the plurality of communication modules is arranged to report on malfunctioning computer software components that are network connected with the corresponding component, and a recovery module, configured to: (i) obtain reports from the communication modules; (ii) re-establish the malfunctioning computer software components; and (iii) notify all communication modules of the re-establishment of the malfunctioning computer software components, wherein each communication module is further configured to re-establish a connection between the one of the plurality of the computer software components and the re-established computer software components.","These, additional, and\/or other aspects and\/or advantages of the present invention are: set forth in the detailed description which follows; possibly inferable from the detailed description; and\/or learnable by practice of the present invention.","Before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is applicable to other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.","For a better understanding of the invention, the usages of the following terms in the present disclosure are defined in a non-limiting manner:","The terms \u201ccomponent\u201d and \u201csoftware component,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as a software application comprised of business logic, a communication layer, a subscription manager and a service component.","The term \u201cnetwork,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as an infrastructure that enables an exchange of data between two or more nodes, such as the aforementioned components. In a non-limiting private case, the two or more nodes may reside on a single computer.","The term \u201ccommunication module,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as the module that is associated with a component and responsible for: (i) reporting failure of other components that are network connected to the component; and (ii) re-establish connection between a re-established component and the corresponding component.","The term \u201crecovery module,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as the module that is responsible for the activity status of components in the system.","The term \u201cConfiguration Manager Service (CMS),\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as the collection of procedures used to manage workflow in a collaborative environment. These procedures may be manual or computer-based.","The term \u201cWindow Communication Foundation (WCF),\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as an Application Programming Interface (API) in the .NET framework for building connected, service-oriented applications.","The term \u201cWCF fa\u00e7ade,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as a service that allows a WCF client to access the components that are being serviced.","The term \u201cIsAlive poll,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as a message that is sent from a client of a component in CMS to the communication module of its corresponding component in order to check the activity status of the component.","The term \u201cWatchdog Mechanism,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as the mechanism that is responsible for checking the activity status of components every specified period of time.","The term \u201cbusiness logic module,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as the module in a component that actually provides services to other components and requests services from other services.","The term \u201cexception,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as the message thrown by a program when the normal flowchart conditions were not met.","The term \u201cMethod call,\u201d as used herein in this application, is defined as the request from a component to perform a task.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["100","90","90","100","110","110","90","90","110","110","90","90","110","90","100","120","110","110","90","90","110","110","90","90"]},"In response to the re-establishing carried out by recovery mechanism  operation, and continuing with the example above, a notification to the communication modules A-D may be sent and communication modules A-D in turn may re-establish connections between their corresponding components A and D and the re-established components B and C. Additionally, the re-establishing of the malfunctioning components B and C by the recovery module  may be carried out according to a specified priority list  of components being recovery priority.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["80","150","152","154","156","158","110","110","90","90","85","85","90","90","80","90","90","110","110"]},"Table 1 illustrates a non-limiting example for priorities and associated sets of components A-F to be recovered are provided herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Malfunctioning",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Component","Priority list","Recover Components"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"90A","Critical","All"]},{"entry":[{},"90B","Medium","90B, 90C"]},{"entry":[{},"90C","Medium","90C, 90B"]},{"entry":[{},"90D","Low","90D"]},{"entry":[{},"90E","Low","90E"]},{"entry":[{},"90F","High","90F, 90B, 90C"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Consistent with some embodiments of the present invention the recovery may be carried out by re-establishing malfunctioning components A-F group-wise, according to specified inter-dependencies among networked components A-F, to quickly recover functionality associated with the groups of components A-F.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["200","80","80","84","84","84","82","80","84","80"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["200","110","90","90","90","113","90","110","90","90","114","112","110","90"]},"Then, communication layer  may use its corresponding CMS client  to notify CMS  that the specific service provider, namely the malfunctioning component B, threw an exception. Then, CMS  may start recovery mechanism .","As a result, recovery module  may attempt to reload malfunctioning component B that has crashed. In case recovery module  failed to reload crashed component B and component B was specified as critical in priority list , recovery module  activates a termination operation to component B.","Further, recovery mechanism  may facilitate priority based recovery mechanism, using a priority list  of components. Recovery mechanism  may support distribution of: (i) local components that are running on the same computer; and (ii) distributed components that are running on a network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","80","80","116","302","85","85","114","110","116","110","306","85"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 3B","b":["300","80","304","80","310","112","112","310","114","114","85","112","85","118","110","110","312","80"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["90","90","402","90","90","402","404","90","404","90","90","404","90","404"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["90","90","80","90","90","90","502","80","80","80","504","90","112","504","90","520","506","520","520","508","402","90","90","90","510"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["80","520","80","85","85","618","618","114","85","112","114"]},"Then, the communication layer  may create a client  to communicate with the CMS . The communication layer  may use this client  to retrieve information from the CMS . The information that may be retrieved is: (i) subscription information with endpoints of all subscription manager services that the component may need to register to; (ii) client information with endpoints of all services that the component may be authorized to attach to. Based on the information retrieved  from the subscription manager module  taken from the CMS , the communication layer  may create a client  and may send subscription requests . Further, the communication layer  may create a regular client  for all services based on information about the clients taken from the CMS . Then, the communication layer  may call to initialize a method in the WCF fa\u00e7ade  for additional initializations. Then, the communication layer (not shown here) may notify the CMS  that the component was loaded.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},"In the above description, an embodiment is an example or implementation of the invention. The various appearances of \u201cone embodiment\u201d, \u201can embodiment\u201d or \u201csome embodiments\u201d do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiments.","Although various features of the invention may be described in the context of a single embodiment, the features may also be provided separately or in any suitable combination. Conversely, although the invention may be described herein in the context of separate embodiments for clarity, the invention may also be implemented in a single embodiment.","Furthermore, it is to be understood that the invention can be carried out or practiced in various ways and that the invention can be implemented in embodiments other than the ones outlined in the description above. In particular, the invention is not limited to those diagrams or to the corresponding descriptions. For example, flow need not move through each illustrated box or state, or in exactly the same order as illustrated and described. Methodologies described herein may be implemented by various means depending upon applications according to particular features or examples. For example, such methodologies may be implemented in hardware, firmware, software, discrete\/fixed logic circuitry, any combination thereof, and so forth. In a hardware or logic circuitry implementation, for example, a processing unit may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), digital signal processors (DSPs), digital signal processing devices (DSPDs), programmable logic devices (PLDs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), processors, controllers, micro-controllers, microprocessors, electronic devices, other devices or units designed to perform the functions described herein, or combinations thereof, just to name a few examples.","For a firmware or software implementation, the methodologies may be implemented with modules (e.g., procedures, functions, etc.) having instructions that perform the functions described herein. Any non-transitory computer- and\/or machine-readable medium embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example, software codes from a computer program product or other source may be stored in a memory and executed by a processor. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term \u201cmemory\u201d refers to any type of long term, short term, volatile, nonvolatile, or other memory and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories, or type of media upon which memory is stored. In at least some implementations, one or more portions of the herein described storage media may store signals representative of data or information as expressed by a particular state of the storage media. For example, an electronic signal representative of data or information may be \u201cstored\u201d in a portion of the storage media (e.g., memory) by affecting or changing the state of such portions of the storage media to represent data or information as binary information (e.g., ones and zeros). As such, in a particular implementation, such a change of state of the portion of the storage media to store a signal representative of data or information constitutes a transformation of storage media to a different state or thing.","Meanings of technical and scientific terms used herein are to be commonly understood as by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs, unless otherwise defined.","While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments, these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention, but rather as exemplifications of some of the preferred embodiments. Other possible variations, modifications, and applications are also within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the scope of the invention should not be limited by what has thus far been described, but by the appended claims and their legal equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be more readily understood from the detailed description of embodiments thereof made in conjunction with the accompanying drawings of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
