---
title: Spinal implant and method for restricting spinal flexion
abstract: A spinal implant system for restricting flexion of a spine includes an elongate band proportioned to engage at least two spinous processes. During use, the band is positioned engaging the spinous processes at a spinal segment of interest, where it restricts flexion at the segment. The length and tension of the band may be adjustable following to implantation using percutaneous or transcutaneous means.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08486110&OS=08486110&RS=08486110
owner: The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University
number: 08486110
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111229
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/364,487, filed Feb. 2, 2009, titled \u201cSPINAL IMPLANT AND METHOD FOR RESTRICTING SPINAL FLEXION\u201d, Publication No. US-2009-0198282-A1; which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/262,877, filed Oct. 31, 2008, titled \u201cSPINAL IMPLANT AND METHOD FOR RESTRICTING SPINAL FLEXION\u201d, Publication No. US-2009-0082820-A1; which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/076,469, filed Mar. 9, 2005, titled \u201cSPINAL IMPLANT AND METHOD FOR RESTRICTING SPINAL FLEXION\u201d, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,458,981; which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119 of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/551,235 filed Mar. 9, 2004, titled \u201cDEVICES THAT TREAT BACK PAIN AND STABILIZE THE SPINE\u201d.","All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.","The present invention relates generally to the field of spinal implants and more particularly to the field of implants for restricting spinal flexion.","A major source of chronic low back pain is discogenic pain, which is also known as internal disc disruption. Patients suffering from discogenic pain tend to be young (30-50 years of age), otherwise healthy individuals who present with pain localized to the back. Usually discogenic pain occurs at the discs located at the L-L or L-S junctions. Pain tends to be exacerbated when patients put their lumbar spines into flexion (i.e. by sitting or bending forward) and relieved when they put their lumbar spines into extension (i.e. arching backwards). Discogenic pain can be quite disabling, and for some patients it dramatically affects their ability to work and otherwise enjoy their lives.","Current treatment alternatives for patients diagnosed with chronic discogenic pain are quite limited. Many patients continue with conservative treatment (examples include physical therapy, massage, anti-inflammatory and analgesic medications, muscle relaxants, and epidural steroid injections) and live with a significant degree of pain. Others elect to undergo spinal fusion surgery, which typically involves discectomy (removal of the disk) together with fusion of adjacent vertebrae. Fusion is not typically recommended for discogenic pain because it is irreversible, costly, associated with high morbidity, and of questionable effectiveness. Despite its drawbacks, however, spinal fusion for discogenic pain remains common due to the lack of viable alternatives.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["2","2","4","8","10","4","12"]},"Under normal loading the lumbar spine curves forward as shown in . In this condition, the discs  are subjected to axial forces by the vertebral bodies. Accordingly, the nucleus pulposus is under compression, while the annulus fibrosis experiences circumferential hoop stresses. However, when the lumbar spine is placed in flexion as shown in  (such as when the patient bends forward or sits), the disc experiences axial forces as well as forward bending forces. The bending forces displace nucleus polposus material dorsally, causing the anterior portion of the disc to be slightly compressed while the posterior portion of the disc is slightly expanded as shown. As a result, the dorsal region of the annulus is placed in tension, causing the patient to experience pain.","As can be seen by comparing , the spinous processes  spread apart from one another when the lumbar spine is under flexion. Several of the embodiments described herein restrict this spreading as a means for restricting flexion. In particular,  illustrate embodiments of spinal implants for coupling two or more spinous processes of the lumbar vertebra as a means for restricting flexion of the lumbar spine so as to minimize lumber pain. It should be noted that although these embodiments are described in the context of the lumbar spine, they may be equally useful in the cervical spine. Moreover, the devices and methods described herein may be adapted for use in other areas of the spine and elsewhere in the body. For example, the devices may be implanted at alternative locations in the body where they may function as artificial ligaments, and the adjustment methods described herein may be used for adjusting artificial ligaments.","Referring to , a first embodiment of a spinal implant comprises an elastic or semi-elastic band  sized to be positionable around adjacent spinous processes . Once implanted, the band  limits the amount of spreading between spinous processes  upon spinal flexion. Thus, when the patient bends the band  is placed in tension, thereby restricting posterior tension that would otherwise be experienced by the dorsal annulus and limiting the amount of flexion that can be achieved. Thus, the intervertebral disc is subjected to limited bending forces and pain is therefore reduced or eliminated. In this capacity, the band functions as an artificial ligament, supplementing the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments, which are normally loaded during flexion.","As best shown in , band  includes an elongate portion  having ends , and a connector  for coupling the ends , to form the band into a loop. The connector  includes a housing  having a keyway opening  at end , and a threaded rod or screw  extending from end . It should be noted that in  the band is partially twisted to cause keyway opening  to face outwardly so that it may be more easily seen and described. However, when the band is implanted the connector preferably faces inwardly as shown in , A and .","Threaded rod  includes a broadened head  that is receivable in the keyway opening . To engage the ends , , broadened head  is inserted into the keyway opening as indicated by arrow X, and then drawn upwardly as indicated by arrow Y to seat broadened head  within the housing  as shown in . In an alternative embodiment, the rod  may be replaced by an alternative rod (not shown) that extends longitudinally from end for streamlined implantation but that includes an end portion pivotable laterally to form a \u201cT\u201d shaped member. To close the loop, the cross member of the \u201cT\u201d is moveable into engagement with a keyway or other receiver on end ","The connecting mechanism  illustrated in  is particularly useful in that it allows the effective length of the band to be adjusted as needed by the surgeon. Referring again to , the threads of rod  are engaged within corresponding threads of a captive nut  retained within a bore  in a housing  at connector end . The rod  may be longitudinally advanced or retracted within the bore  by axially rotating the rod in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction, such as by manually turning the head  using the thumb and forefinger. This allows the physician to adjust the effective length and degree of tension of the implant  prior to and\/or after implantation. In an alternative embodiment, the device may include multiple adjustment assemblies to allow for gross adjustment as well as fine tuning of the device length and tension. Moreover, the implant may be formed of multiple elements (e.g. having multiple straps, connectors, and\/or adjustment mechanisms) that come together to form the band.","Various other types of connecting mechanisms may be used to connect the ends of the band to form a loop. In an alternative embodiment shown in , a turnbuckle nut  has internal threads engageable with threaded members located at the free ends of band . The free ends of the band include opposite thread patterns so that rotation of the turnbuckle in one direction draws the ends towards one another to shorten the loop, whereas rotation in the opposite direction spreads the ends away from one another to lengthen the loop. Other types of connecting mechanisms that may be used to form the band into a loop include hooks, crimp, zip tie type configurations, housing and set screw assemblies, hand-tied or instrument-tied knots or any other form of suitable connector.","Another example, illustrated in exploded perspective view in , includes a connector having two threaded worm gears , and a worm screw . The threaded worm gears , receive corresponding threaded rods , , each of which is coupled to an end of a U-shaped body of the band as shown. When implanted, the band is preferably oriented such that connector is positioned above the superior spinous process (as shown) or below the inferior spinous process and such that the rods , extend in a generally axial direction next to and parallel to the sides of the spinous process. The worm screw and the threaded worm gears are arranged such that rotation of the worm screw in one direction effectively lengthens the band by causing the worm gears to move along the rods in a superior direction (see arrow S), and such that rotation of the worm screw in the opposite direction effectively shortens the band by causing the worm gears to move along the rods in an inferior direction (see arrow I). Thus, the connector allows a single worm gear within the connector assembly to simultaneously adjust both ends of the band to tighten or loosen the full band. The connector is preferably partially enclosed within a housing (not shown), with worm screw  exposed for access by a user.","Although in the  A through  embodiments the ends of the band include components that engage with one another to form the loop connection, other configurations are possible. For example, the ends of the band may be drawn together and anchored together using a separate coupling device. A spring-loaded cord lock having a hole which receives the ends of band and which allows the band to be \u201ccinched\u201d around the spinous processes is one example. As another example, a single end of the band may include a coupling device which can receive and engage the opposite free end of the band. Naturally, many alternative configurations are conceivable.","Referring again to the preferred embodiment of , the elongate portion  of the band  is preferably made of a biocompatible elastic or semi-elastic material selected to restrict flexion of the lumbar spine by a desired degree (e.g. an amount sufficient to relieve pain) by increasing the stiffness of the effected joint segment (e.g. L\/L) by some amount, which may vary for different patients. In one embodiment, the spring constant of the device would be 25-75N\/mm. In a preferred embodiment, flexion is not completely inhibited, but is instead limited only within the range in which flexion causes pain or significant pain, while rotation and extension are incidentally and only minimally restricted by placement of the band. Suitable examples of materials include (but are not limited to) single monofilament elastic materials in tension (e.g. elastomers or suitable biocompatible materials such as those manufactured by Polymer Technology Group of Berkeley, C A), polyurethanes, polycarbone\/polyether urethanes, thermoplastic silicone urethane copolymers, metal springs (e.g. stainless steel or NiTiNOL, coiled or otherwise, in tension or compression), knit or woven materials. If desired, the interior surface of the band may have properties for preventing slipping between the band and adjacent bone, and\/or for promoting ingrowth of bone material or other tissue ingrowth that facilitates retention of the band. For example, the interior surface of the band may include gripping elements or surface roughness, or a porous in-growth-promoting surface. Alternatively, supplemental elements may be combined with the band  to prevent slipping, such as the elements  shown in . Such elements may be pre-attached to the band or separately placed in contact with the spinous process during implantation to prevent slipping.","In an alternative embodiment, suitable bioresorbable materials may alternatively be used for some or all of the components.","One method for implanting the band  of  will next be described. Implantation may be carried out using surgical techniques via a midline incision, or minimally invasively through a keyhole incision. After penetration through the fascia, the muscle next to the spinous processes is distracted to give the surgeon access to the spinous processes and interspinous ligaments. Two holes may be pierced in the interspinous ligaments to facilitate implantation of the device: one in the interspinous ligament above the superior spinous process and one in the interspinous ligament below the inferior spinous process. Prior to positioning of the band , the effective length of band may optionally be adjusted by rotating threaded rod  to increase or decrease its effective length as described above.  illustrate one example of a method for implanting the band . According to this exemplary method, one end of the band  is passed through the incision and advanced superiorly until it is positioned adjacent to the desired pair of spinous processes , . . One or both ends of the band  are wrapped around the spinous processes , and brought towards one another as shown in . If the spinal segment of interest is one at which there is a spinous process that is inadequate or otherwise shaped in a manner that will prevent it from retaining the band, the spinous process may be engaged by the band in an alternative way. For example, a small hole may be formed in that spinous process and the band may be passed through the small hole. This approach may be particularly desirable where a band is to be placed at the L-S segment.","The head  is inserted into the keyway opening to engage the ends , . If the surgeon determines that the band  is too loose to adequately restrict flexion or too tight to permit an appropriate amount of flexion, adjustments to the effective length of rod  may be made at this time. As is clear from the description, the band is preferably held in place without the use of screws, nails, or other attachment devices penetrating the bone or cemented to the bone\u2014although in some circumstances it may be desirable to utilize such means of attachment to facilitate retention.","As discussed above, the implanted band  limits the amount of spinal flexion without significantly restricting rotation or extension of the spine. If necessary for the patient's condition, multiple bands may be used at multiple segments within the spine.","As discussed previously, band  preferably includes features for adjusting the effective length of the band, such as by rotating the threaded rod  to cause it to screw further into or out of the captive nut . It is further preferable to provide features that permit this type of adjustment both immediately following implantation and in a later procedure if desired.","Referring to , the broadened head  of the threaded rod  may take the form of a worm gear having teeth along its exterior edges. When the band is assembled, a portion of the worm gear  is exposed through a window  in housing . Referring to , a suitable adjustment tool  includes an elongate rod  and a threaded member  that is engageable with the exposed threads on the worm screw . An L-shaped spring clip  extends laterally from the rod .","Referring to , to adjust the length of the band , the tool's threaded member  is engaged against the corresponding threads of the worm gear , while the spring plate  is positioned in contact with an opposite side of the housing  to steady the tool  against the implant. When the threaded member of the adjustment tool is turned, it rotates the worm gear , causing the threaded rod  to move up or down through the captive nut, thereby lengthening or shortening the effective length of the band as shown in . As discussed, this adjustment may be carried out immediately following positioning of the band , or during a separate procedure at a later date if it is determined that increased or decreased restriction is desired. The tool  could be threaded through a small incision to gain access to the implanted device.","Naturally, many other mechanisms for adjusting the effective length of the band before and\/or after implantation may be provided. These mechanisms may be operatively associated with the band's connecting mechanism, or they may be entirely separate from the band's connecting mechanism. One example includes the turnbuckle arrangement shown in , in which the turnbuckle nut  may be rotated in one direction to tighten the loop or rotated in the other direction to loosen the loop. Other examples include hose-clamp type mechanisms, ratchet configurations or screw mechanisms that may be adjusted using adjustment tools (e.g. screwdrivers, ratcheting devices etc.), piston elements that expand or contract upon addition or removal of a fluid (e.g. air or liquid) into or from a reservoir using a syringe, shape memory elements or other elements having material properties that will allow for an effective change in response to changed environmental conditions (e.g. electrically or thermally activated length changes initiated by application of heat or electricity using a conductor positioned adjacent to or into contact with the band, or chemically activated length changes using a chemical agent passed into contact with the band using a syringe or catheter). Links or other elements that may be added\/removed to increase\/decrease the band's length, or lengths of elastic material forming the band may be wrapped on a spool and payed out or coiled up to effect length changes in the band. As another example, sections of the band material may be displaced transversely to shorten the effective length of the band.","Referring to , the band  may be equipped with a motor  and battery  for effecting band length changes by driving the rod , together with electronic components  that control the motor. Although one arrangement of components is illustrated in , many others are possible, including one in which the motor drives the head  of the threaded rod .","Additional electronics  may allow length changes to be accomplished non-invasively. For example, the electronic components  may include receivers for radio, optical, or magnetic signals transmitted through the skin. These components may be housed within housing with the motor coupled to threaded rod . The device would thus be programmed to adjust the band length in response to transcutaneous signals received from an external device . The band's electronics  may further include transmitters for transmitting data indicating the current length and\/or tension setting for the implant to the external device . In a similar embodiment, the band may be coupled to one or more buttons palpable through the skin that can activate the motor for length adjustments. The buttons may be positioned directly on the band or in a subcutaneous pocket. In other embodiments, the band may be manually adjusted by manipulating an actuator (e.g. a rotatable knob) palpable through the skin. In other embodiments, the band may be adjusted by passing a magnet over the skin in order to mechanically manipulate an element under the skin via the magnetic field. In other embodiments, a motorized pump may pump fluid to or from a piston chamber to affect a change in loop length. Transcutaneous length adjustments are also possible using embodiments of the type above for which a syringe may be used as an adjustment tool (e.g. for injecting fluid into a piston chamber or for injecting a chemical agent into contact with a chemically material that changes shape in response to chemical exposure), by passing the syringe through the skin to the target location. A tatoo or other visual marker may be positioned on the skin to allow the physician to easily identify the target injection site.","Components of a third embodiment of a spinal implant  are illustrated in . Implant  is similar to the prior embodiments in that, when assembled, it takes the form of a band positionable around the spinous processes. However, it differs from prior embodiments in that it restricts spinal flexion using compression elements that are placed in compression upon expansion of the band during spinal flexion.","Referring to , implant  includes a pair of elastomeric members , , each of which includes a throughbore , and a cable , extending through the throughbore. Cables , are preferably inelastic, although in an alternative embodiment elastic cables may also be used. The elastomeric members may be housed in an enclosure or casing  () formed of a biocompatible metal (e.g. titanium or stainless steel) or polymer, if desired. Casing  includes a removable cap  which mates with the casing using threaded connections. Openings , are provided in the casing  and cap  for passage of the cables , ","Each cable preferably includes a first stopper element , fixed to one of its ends, and a second stopper element , attachable to its free end. If the casing  of  is used, a washer  may be positioned between each stopper element and its corresponding elastomeric member ","The stopper elements , , , are proportioned such that they cannot pass through the throughbores , . The implant  further includes a pair of arcuate elements , , each of which includes receiving elements such as loops , on its convex side as shown. Each of the cables , extends through the loops of one of the rigid arcuate elements , . During use, the arcuate elements , are positioned in contact with the spinous processes where they may prevent slipping between the band and adjacent bone. The elements , may also utilize materials or coatings that will promote tissue ingrowth that facilitates retention of the band. The elements , may also provide a track through which the band passes. Although the elements , are shown as being arcuate, they may have other shapes without departing from the scope of the invention.","A method for positioning the implant  will next be described with reference to . For simplicity, only the posterior sides of the spinous processes  involved in the procedure are shown. Prior to implantation, each cable is preferably preassembled with its corresponding arcuate element and elastomeric member. Referring to , a first one of the cables is positioned with its arcuate element positioned with its concave side facing a spinous process . The second cable is similarly introduced at the other spinous process , and the free end of each cable , is threaded through the elastomeric member , of the opposite cable as shown in . Finally, the remaining stoppers , are mounted to the free ends of the cables as shown in , causing each of the elastomeric members to be positioned between and in contact with a pair of the stoppers. The cables are tightened around the spinous process as shown in , and the stoppers are locked in place (such as by crimping or other action) to retain the cables in the tightened configuration.","As discussed previously, flexion of the spinal segment will cause the spinous processes , to spread away from one another. When the implant  is positioned as shown in , spreading of the spinal processes will impart expansive forces to the implant . These expansive forces cause each of the elastomeric members , to be compressed between a pair of the stoppers , , , , thereby restricting expansion of the implant  and thus limiting spinal flexion at the segment in which the implant is positioned. Various embodiments of systems, devices and methods have been described herein. These embodiments are given only by way of example and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. It should be appreciated, moreover, that the various features of the embodiments that have been described may be combined in various ways to produce numerous additional embodiments. Moreover, while various materials, dimensions, shapes, implantation locations, etc. have been described for use with disclosed embodiments, others besides those disclosed may be utilized without exceeding the scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 3D","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3E","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A through 4D","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A through 8D","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
