---
title: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for bridging user authentication, authorization, and access between web-based and telecom domains
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for bridging user authentication, authorization, and access between web-based and telecom domains are disclosed. In one example, a method includes issuing, to an application hosted in a web-based network, an access token associated with a user identifier subscribed to a telecommunications network, wherein the access token is issued in response to receiving telecommunications network credentials from a client device associated with the user identifier and receiving, at an over the top (OTT) proxy element in the telecommunications network from the application, the access token for requesting user data associated with the client device to be used to access the application. The method further includes retrieving the user data if the access token is valid a telecommunications network context condition is met and providing the user data to the application, wherein access to the application by the client device is based on the user data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08667579&OS=08667579&RS=08667579
owner: Genband US LLC
number: 08667579
owner_city: Frisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111129
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The subject matter described herein relates to authentication and authorization pertaining to applications. More specifically, the subject matter relates to methods, systems, and computer readable media for bridging user authentication, authorization, and access across web-based and telecom domains.","Modern telecommunications networks offer users a vast array of options for connecting and interacting with one another. In addition to choices provided by telecommunications providers themselves, users can now utilize a variety of independently developed products and services that run \u201con top\u201d of the infrastructure maintained by the telecommunications industry. These independently developed products and services are commonly referred to as over-the-top (OTT) services because these services are not developed with a specific telecommunications provider's network in mind, but rather are designed to interconnect users via a provider-independent platform.","With the proliferation of smartphone, social networks, OTT applications and self-serve application stores, users are increasingly creating their own customized bundles of applications, made up of applications from the telecom, enterprise and Internet domains. Within this disjointed application model, user identification, authentication and authorization has become a difficult management problem, forcing users to manage a large number of individual usernames and passwords, and having to log in multiple times each day, as they invoke different applications. Furthermore, they have to enter their personal information and manage this across all of the application domains that they access.","To address these issues, many of the large OTT sites and social networks have implemented delegated authorization mechanisms, which allow a user to login once to an OTT property, and then to use this login as a single-sign-on mechanism to other applications, and for authorizing other applications to access their personal data. This provides improved user experience for end users, and encourages them to remain anchored and active within the OTT community. These evolving mechanisms present a real problem for the telecom operators, since it encourages users to anchor their application experience in the OTT domains and social networks, which creates a barrier for operators when introducing new telecom hosted applications.","Accordingly, a need exists for methods, systems, and computer readable media for bridging user authentication, authorization, and access across internet and telecom domains.","The subject matter described herein includes methods, systems, and computer readable media for bridging user authentication, authorization, and access across internet and telecom domains. According to one embodiment, a method includes issuing, to an application hosted in a web-based network, an access token associated with a user identifier subscribed to a telecommunications network, wherein the access token is issued in response to receiving telecommunications network credentials from a client device associated with the user identifier and receiving, at an over the top (OTT) proxy element in the telecommunications network from the application, the access token for requesting user data associated with the client device to be used to access the application. The method further includes retrieving the user data if the access token is valid a telecommunications network context condition is met and providing the user data to the application, wherein access to the application by the client device is based on the user data.","According to another embodiment of the present subject matter, a system includes an application server residing in a web-based network that is configured to host an application and to provide an access token associated with a user identifier subscribed to a telecommunications network, wherein the access token is initially received by the application in response to a client device associated with the user identifier providing telecommunications network login credentials to an OTT proxy element. The system further includes an OTT proxy element that resides in a telecommunications network and is configured to receive the access token from the application server, to retrieve the user data if the access token is valid and a telecommunications network context condition is met, and to provide the user data to the application, wherein access to the application by the client device is based on the user data.","The subject matter described herein can be implemented in software in combination with hardware and\/or firmware. For example, the subject matter described herein may be implemented in software executed by one or more processors. In one exemplary implementation, the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non-transitory computer readable media, such as disk memory devices, chip memory devices, programmable logic devices, and application specific integrated circuits. In addition, a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.","As used herein, the term \u201cnode\u201d refers to a physical computing platform including one or more processors and memory.","As used herein, the terms \u201cfunction\u201d or \u201cmodule\u201d refer to software in combination with hardware (such as a processor) and\/or firmware for implementing features described herein.","Methods, systems, and computer readable media for bridging user authentication, authorization, and access between web-based and telecom domains are provided. According to one aspect, the present subject matter described herein may include a system that enables telecommunications identities (e.g., IMS\/SIP) and credentials to be used in an implicit manner to authenticate web users in a single sign on (SSO) operation. The system may also allow user profile, context, ad targeting data, and the like to be authorized and shared with a web based application according to authorization policies. In one embodiment, the present subject matter utilizes a mechanism to integrate token based authorization, such as oAuth 2.0, into the IMS identity architecture. Similarly, the present subject matter may employ a mechanism to extend implicit user authorization to other applications and utilize a dynamic token status to allow authorization status to reflect user context, policy rules, and registration state. Although the following disclosure described the use of oAuth 2.0 tokens, any other token based authentication scheme may be used without departing from the present subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","110","110","116","114","112","102","106","106","108","100","104","120","102"]},"In one embodiment, client device  may include any mobile client device, such as a smartphone, a cellular phone, and a personal digital assistant device, that can access a SIP based telecommunications network. In another embodiment, client device  may include a fixed client device, such as a personal computer (PC) or an Internet protocol television (IPTV), that utilizes fixed access (e.g., DSL) to access an application. For example, client device  may also include any device that can register with an IMS\/SIP network. In one embodiment, client device  may be configured to use an active registration state (e.g., an active SIP registration state) to identify, authenticate and authorize itself within web and internet based applications. For example, client device  may be configured to utilize an access token to implicitly log into an ecosystem partner application using associated SIP\/IMS login information and state. In one embodiment, client device  may be provisioned with a non-telecom client application, such as a local web browser. Although the active registration state is described herein as an active SIP registration state, registration states established in other protocols (e.g., a subscriber identification module (SIM) protocol, a radius protocol, a Diameter protocol, a packet data protocol (PDP) context protocol, an extensible messaging and presence protocol (XMPP), etc.) may be utilized without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. In one embodiment, the present subject matter may apply to other forms of registered services, such as an extensible mapping and presence protocol (XMPP) or proprietary systems, such as Skype and the like.","In one embodiment, EAS  may include any type of network node, server, or element that resides in the IP network. EAS  may be configured to host one or more applications, such as application . For example, application  may include a web-based application that may require a username and password to establish a log-in session. Although the following disclosure describes application  as a web application or web-based application, other applications (e.g., enterprise based applications or mobile device applications) may be utilized without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. EAS  may also have access to a token storage entity . In one embodiment, token storage entity  may include any network element, server, or database residing in the web-based portion of system  that is configured to provide user authorization policies and token resolution. For example, token storage entity  may maintain and manage saved access tokens issued by OTT proxy element . Notably, access tokens stored in token storage entity  may be issued by and used to gain access to OTT proxy element .","In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  may include any network element residing in telecommunications network  that is configured to provide a secure bridge between an IMS\/SIP network and a web based network. For example, OTT proxy element  may utilize a management module  to perform a number of functions that coordinate the interactions between a telecommunications network and one or more Internet protocol networks. For example, management module may provide security functions for traffic entering into telecommunications network  from the IP network. Management module  in OTT proxy element  may also be configured to receive web-based application access requests from ecosystem application servers. Notably, management module  may manage a plurality of web-based application programming interfaces (APIs) (e.g., HTTP related) that handle incoming requests from web-based applications in the IP network(s). Management module  may also coordinate the APIs provisioned on OTT proxy element  to map incoming IP-based requests into an appropriate telecommunications protocol and facilitate the interaction with the correct network component in the telecommunications network . For example, management module  may interact with the voice network by mapping between VoIP voice call protocols and telecom voice call protocols. Management module  in OTT proxy element  may also manage external APIs that provide a particular quality of service (QoS) to web-based application traffic. In one embodiment, OTT proxy  presents and manages REST APIs to external applications (e.g., application ).","In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  may be configured to facilitate the assignment of access tokens. For example, a telecom subscriber associated with client device  may attempt to first access a web-based application  hosted in an IP network. In instances where client device  cannot be authenticated (e.g., is not logged into or registered) by application , application  may be configured to redirect the client device  to a telecom provider's OTT proxy element . Client device  may then be used to provide its telecommunications based credentials (i.e., not IP based credentials) to OTT proxy element . In one embodiment, client device  provides a SIP user address and a related password to OTT proxy element . In response, OTT proxy element  may forward these user credentials to a registrar server  to determine if client device has an active SIP registration state and to a user profile server  to determine the access policies associated with client device . In one embodiment, user profile server  may include any network element residing in telecommunications network  that is configured to provide identity authorization service. For example, user profile server  may maintain and manage identity mappings (e.g., SIP to OTT property), persona identification, and the addition of passwords to IMS profiles. In one embodiment, registrar server  may include any network element residing in telecommunications network  that is configured to provide user context service. For example, registrar server  may maintain and manage persona identification and real-time registration state (e.g., IMS registration and\/or SIP registration) of client device .","Once authenticated by registrar server , a token manager  may generate an access token that includes access policies associated with the authenticated client device and at least one application. In one embodiment, token manager  may include any network element residing in telecommunications network  that is configured to provide user authorization policies and token resolution. For example, token manager  may maintain and manage the assignment of privileges (i.e., authorization policies) to tokens based on the application, user, persona, and the like. Token manager  may also be used to generate tokens and map tokens to user authorization policies. An exemplary access token may include security information for a log-in session, such as a user's identification, a user's groups, and a user's privileges (e.g., access token policies). In one embodiment, the user's identification may include a SIP public identifier, which may comprise of one or more user attributes such as, an explicit login password, user preferences, usage analytics (e.g., advertisement targeting data), personalization data, charging data (e.g., credit card number), previous visit history, friend\/buddy data, and an access grant list (e.g., application identifier, expiry, permissions and policies, etc.).","In one embodiment, the generated token may include access policies that are associated with the authentication session related to the web-based application  that the client device  is attempting to access. Thus, a telecom provider may utilize OTT proxy element  to control the application's access to the telecom network as well as access to profile data and context data associated with client device . In one embodiment, the user's context data includes state information related to the user, such as presence information, location information, registration information, and roaming state. Similarly, a user's profile data may include profile authorization rules that are based on day of the week, time of day, active persona, user device type, current access network, and the like.","After the access token is generated, OTT proxy element  redirects client device  back to application . OTT proxy element  also provides the application with the access token. In one embodiment, access token exchanges are communicated via a secure transport layer, such as HTTPS (SSL), in order to protect token integrity. Similarly, oAuth 2.0 token exchange may be used to protect the user credentials in the telecommunications network.","Upon receiving the access token, application  authenticates client device  and provides client device  access to the application web site. Notably, the user of client device  does not need to obtain a user identifier or establish a password with the IP based application . The application  may also store the access token in token storage entity  (e.g., a dedicated server or database) for later use.","In the event client device  makes a subsequent request to access the IP based application , application  identifies the client device  and accesses token storage  in order to retrieve the related access token. In one embodiment, the application may identify client device  by detecting a cookie user identifier in client device . Application  may also utilize the cookie user identifier to retrieve the correct access token in token storage . The application may then pass the retrieved access token to OTT proxy element , which then retrieves user related data associated with client device , such as the user's SIP public user identifier and token access policies. Prior to providing the user related data to application , OTT proxy element  may also determine whether client device  is SIP registered and whether the token is valid by communicating with registrar server . If client device  is SIP registered and the token is still valid, OTT proxy element  notifies the application that the user of client device  has been authenticated and provides the user profile and context data to application . The profile and context data that application  is authorized to received is determined by the token policies contained within the access token. After receiving the user profile and context data, application  establishes a log-in session for client device  and utilizes the user profile and context data to customize the user's experience. Although the above example describes an embodiment based on IMS\/SIP registration mechanisms, other stateful registration mechanisms such as packet data protocol (PDP) context establishment, PDP activation, AAA via radius\/Diameter registration (e.g., via DSL), a subscriber identification module (SIM) protocol mechanism, an extensible messaging and presence protocol (XMPP) mechanism, a voice over IP application protocol mechanism (e.g., Skype), and presence server state, may be used without departing from the scope of the present subject matter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","104","120","106","104","120","106","104","110"]},"In block , a determination as to whether an access token is available (if the client device is not logged into the application). For example, application  determines if an access token associated with the requesting client device  is available in token storage. If the access token is not available, method  proceeds to block  where application  redirects the client device  to OTT proxy element . In one embodiment, application  uses a an HTTP  message to redirect client device  to OTT proxy element  and provide a client identifier and a return URL address associated with application . A client application in client device  may contact OTT proxy  for authentication by providing the client identifier and an application identifier via an HTTP GET message.","In block , a request for access to user profile\/context data is received. In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  presents a web page to client device  requesting permission to allow application  to access login data associated with client device . As used herein, profile data includes static information that may be provisioned and stored. Notably, profile data may includes data that remains static for long periods of time, such as a user name, an address, friend lists, phone numbers, app preferences, display format, and the like. Similarly, context data may include dynamic information that changes frequently, either changed directly by the user or changed due to user behavior or network\/environmental conditions. Examples of context data that may be changed by the user include availability status (e.g. Busy, Please do not disturb), current profile photo and persona (e.g., a work profile vs. a home profile). Examples of context information that may change as a result of user behavior or network\/environmental conditions may be presence state (e.g., user currently using the phone), user location, and time sensitive conditions. Notably, the present subject matter provides a secure and controlled way for applications to access both statically provisioned and dynamically provisioned user related data that is available within the operator's network.","In block , the client device is redirected back to the web application. In one embodiment, after providing permission, client device  is redirected back to application  via the return URL address. OTT proxy element  also provides a unique authorization code to application .","In block , an access token is requested. In one embodiment, application  uses the authorization code and application identifier to request an access token from OTT proxy element .","In block , the application and authorization code are validated. In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  validates application  and the provided authorization code. Upon completing the validation process the OTT proxy element  provides an access token to the application. OTT proxy element  also retrieves the user's SIP login session data and POSTs the login session data to the application .","Returning to block , if is determined that an access token is available to application , then method  proceeds to block , where user profile\/context data is requested from the OTT proxy element. In one embodiment, application  passes the access token to OTT proxy element  in an attempt to retrieve profile and context data associated with client device .","In block , the user profile\/context data is obtained. In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  retrieves a SIP public user identifier and token access polices that are associated with client device . OTT proxy element  may be configured to retain SIP public user identifier and token access polices if the access token is validated and a telecommunications network context condition is met. An exemplary telecommunications network context condition includes the determination that client device  having an active SIP registration. Other exemplary telecommunications network context conditions include an approved subscription state associated with the client device (e.g., permitting access if the user has not exceeded data usage limits) and the presence (e.g., geographical presence) of the client device  in the telecommunications network service area.","In block , a determination is made as to whether the access token is expired. If the access token is expired and invalid, OTT proxy element  notifies application  of the expired token via an HTTP  unauthorized message and method  loops back to block  where the token granting sequence is initiated in order to obtain a new access token. If the access token is found to be valid, then method  continues to block  where a determination is made as to whether client device  has an active SIP registration. If the client device  is SIP registered, then method  continues to block  where the OTT proxy element  provides user profile\/context data to application . In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  sends a 200 OK message to application  to indicate that client device  is authenticated. OTT proxy element  also sends the SIP user profile and context data that the application is authorized to receive (per the policies indicated in the access token). Application  may then log in client device  (into application ) and uses the profile\/context data to customize the user's experience within application . In one embodiment, customization of the user experience may involve an application to record past user actions and activities related to that application. For example, a given application may store usage logs, recall past purchases on a commerce website, store a history of other people the user has communicated with, displaying the last screen\/page, recording an eBook library list, and the like. Application  may also store user preferences (e.g., display preferences, preferred instant messaging tool, preferred notification mechanisms, etc.), user profile data (e.g., friend\/contact lists, billing\/credit card numbers, user display name, profile photos, electronic business cards, etc.), application specific data (e.g., current page in open eBooks, favorite shopping categories for commerce applications, etc.), and user context data (e.g., the user's current location). The present subject matter also allows different applications to have controlled access to different portions of a particular user's profile\/context data, which the application may then use to customize that application for the user. For instance, a web site for a store (e.g. Wal-Mart) may use user location information context data and previous shopping behavior for the user to display relevant items which are on sale at local stores. A social network may use contact or call log data to suggest new friends within the social network. A communication app may use the preferred notification mechanism data when new calls\/messages arrive.","Returning to block , if it is determined that client device  is not currently SIP registered, then method  proceeds to block , where an error message is sent to the web application. In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  returns a \u201cUser not Registered\u201d error message to application .","In block , client device is redirected to a login service. In one embodiment, application  redirects client device  to a login service hosted by OTT proxy element . The user may be prompted to interact with the login service by providing a SIP user identifier and a password (i.e., conducting a SIP registration). In one embodiment, by providing a SIP user identifier and password, a user may activate the access token.","In block , the client device is redirected to the application. In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  may redirect client device  to application  after the user is authenticated and their registration status as stored in registrar server  is changed to \u201cweb registered\u201d. Specifically, OTT proxy element may redirect client device  to application . Application  may then send an HTTP GET message with the access token to OTT proxy element to restart the single sign on process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["102","104","110","106","104","106","106","104","102","106","104","302","102","104","102","102","104","106","102","104","104","102","104","104","106","102"]},"Upon receiving the redirection message, client device  uses the return URL to contact EAS  and provides the authorization code to the hosted application. The hosted application then uses the authorization code along with an application identifier and application secret (or any other confidential piece of information, such as a long stream of apparently random characters) to request an access token from OTT proxy server . In one embodiment, a network operator (e.g., an authentication server) provides the application secret to one or more applications. The receiving application may then be configured to keep the application secret confidential (e.g., the application secret should not be made visible in any manner). In the event an application performs an authentication process, the application provides the application secret back to the authentication server. Thus, an additional layer of security to help ensure the application is recognized by the authentication server.","In response to the access token request, OTT proxy server  may validate the application (e.g., comparing the application identifier with the previously provided client\/application identifier) and the authorization code and return an access token to the application at EAS . OTT proxy element  may then retrieve the user's login session data and provides (e.g., POSTs) the user data to the application instance, using the client\/application identifier to determine the application URL. In an alternate embodiment, a PULL operation may instead be initiated by the application. After client device  is granted access to the hosted application, the hosted application may store the access token for future use and access associated with client device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["102","110","106","104","106","104","106","104","104","106","108","108","106","102","102","102","114","102","104"]},"If the access token is valid and the SIP registration is active, OTT proxy element  may return a 200 OK message to indicate that client device  has been authenticated. In one embodiment, OTT proxy element  may also include the profile and context data the application is authorized to receive (i.e., as indicated in the token policies). In response, an API associated with the partner application may use the access token to login the user and use the returned profile\/context data in the access token to customize the user's experience.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["102","104","104","110","106","104","104","106","104","104","120","108","120","102","102","102","114","102","104","110"]},"Upon determining that client device  is not SIP registered, OTT proxy element  may direct a \u201cUser not Registered\u201d error message to application . In response, application  may send a redirect message to client device . Client device  may then be redirected to a login service supported by OTT proxy element . In one embodiment, client device  is used to interact with the login service to SIP register by entering a SIP user identifier and password. Client device  is then authenticated and the SIP registration status is changed to \u201cweb registered\u201d. OTT proxy element  may then send a redirect message to client device  which instructs client device  to contact the partner application, which may then reissue the HTTP GET message with the valid access token to OTT proxy element .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","602","604","606","608","602","602","606"]},"In one embodiment, policy identifier  may include a number of different customized usage policies attached to access token . For example, policy identifier  may include fields that indicate the SIP registration status of the user, different roaming statuses (e.g., active vs. suspended) associated with different types of calling networks (e.g., home, roaming domestic, roaming international, etc.) utilized by the user, the API usage associated with the user (e.g., whether to allow or block instant messaging or presence notifications), and an API SLA associated with the user (e.g., whether a call should be allowed, throttled, or blocked depending on how may calls the user receives in an hour). For each of these fields, policy identifier  may also include an associated specific policy field. For example, if the user is not SIP registered, policy identifier  may prompt the user for login credentials. If the user is SIP registered, then policy identifier  may indicate an active status associated with the user. Similarly, if the client device associated with the user is in the home network or roaming domestically, then the policy associated with this particular token may indicated that roaming capabilities are activated. In contrast, if the client device is roaming internationally, the policy may indicate that roaming capabilities are suspended. Token  may also include API usage and API SLA policies associated with the client device. For example, the policy may indicate that the client device may receive an unlimited number of UM notifications, but may block all presence notifications.","In short, token  may include a usage policy that is customized for each particular client device. For example, customized SLA grades, customized authentication behaviors and customized authorization levels for different users and applications may be included in each particular token. In addition, modifications made to token  enables a network operator to dynamically change a user's authorization status to reflect user context, policy rules, and registration state.","It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore, the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only, and not for the purpose of limitation, as the subject matter described herein is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The subject matter described herein will now be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
