---
title: Localized temperature stability of low temperature cofired ceramics
abstract: The present invention is directed to low temperature cofired ceramic modules having localized temperature stability by incorporating temperature coefficient of resonant frequency compensating materials locally into a multilayer LTCC module. Chemical interactions can be minimized and physical compatibility between the compensating materials and the host LTCC dielectrics can be achieved. The invention enables embedded resonators with nearly temperature-independent resonance frequency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08593237&OS=08593237&RS=08593237
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08593237
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110926
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Compensating Materials","LTCC and SL Resonator","Selection of Compensating Materials","Cofireability of STO20 and 951 LTCC","Temperature Compensated SL Ring Resonators"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE-AC04-94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to low temperature cofired ceramics and, in particular, to a low temperature cofired ceramic having localized temperature stability.","Low temperature cofired ceramic (LTCC) is a multilayer 3D packaging, interconnection, and integration technology. One of the advantages of LTCC is the ability to integrate passive components, such as capacitors, resistors, inductors, resonators, and filters, in the LTCC via cofiring processes. For LTCC modules with embedded resonator functions targeting high frequency applications, the temperature coefficient of resonant frequency (\u03c4) is a critical parameter. A low \u03c4, preferably close to 0 ppm\/\u00b0 C., is desirable to achieve temperature-stable resonator functions for radio and microwave frequency (RF and MW) applications. With a low \u03c4resonator, the temperature compensation that requires additional mechanical and electrical circuits to achieve temperature stable resonator function can be eliminated. See C. Wang and K. A. Zaki, -3, 1041 (1993); and U.S. Pat. No. 5,302,924 to H. Johnson and A Tunumen. For filter applications, a low \u03c4enables efficient use of bandwidth for maximum communication capacity.","There are multiple approaches to achieve temperature stable resonator functions. One common engineering method to achieve a near zero \u03c4is to form solid solutions of different dielectric ceramics that have opposite \u03c4. The method has been applied to many MW dielectrics for resonator applications as well as LTCC base dielectrics for integration of resonator functions. See W. Wersing, 1, 715 (1996); R. C. Kell et al., 56, 352 (1973); S. Kucheiko et al., 79, 2739 (1996); I. M. Reaney, and D. Iddles, 89, 2063 (2006); S. Dai et al., 85, 828 (2002); H. Jantunen, 85, 697 (2002); H. Kapta et al., 31, 3152 (1992); Y. Choi et al., 58, 3102 (2004); and U.S. Pat. No. 6,841,496 to Kim. The other practice is to form a hybrid layered structure incorporating alternating layers with opposite \u03c4, either by sequential sintering or bonding processes. See N. Alford et al., -147, 269 (2000); and L. Li and X. M. Chen, 89, 544 (2006).","Although there are commercial LTCC dielectrics with low \u03c4, (e.g., Hereaus CT2000 with \u03c4<10 ppm\/\u00b0 C.), most of existing LTCC dielectrics possess a \u03c4in the range \u221250 to \u221280 ppm\/\u00b0 C.  shows \u03c4data of several main stream LTCC dielectrics. It is expected that for integrated RF circuits using any of these LTCCs, the impact of \u03c4will be reflected in a drift of resonant frequencies of embedded resonators over the device's operating temperatures. This drift results in extra design limitation and\/or performance compromise.","Therefore, a need remains for an LTCC having localized temperature stability.","The present invention is directed to a multilayer low temperature cofired ceramic module having localized temperature stability, comprising a layer comprising a low temperature cofired ceramic having a temperature coefficient of resonant frequency; a passive component disposed on the low temperature cofired ceramic layer; and a compensating material having a temperature coefficient of resonant frequency opposite to that of the low temperature cofired ceramic, disposed on at least one side of the passive component. For example, the compensating material can be disposed as a layer, filled via, or cavity insert on at least one side of the passive component. The compensating material can comprise a glass, a ceramic filler, such as alumina, and titania or titanate. For example, the compensating material can comprise between 5 to 90 wt % of a low temperature cofired ceramic glass, between 0 to 90 wt % of ceramic filler, and between 0 to 90 wt % of titania or titanate. The multilayer low temperature cofired ceramic module can further comprise at least one additional compensating material having a different temperature coefficient of resonant frequency, disposed on another side of the passive component.","The low temperature cofired ceramics having localized temperature stability of the present invention enable zero or near zero \u03c4embedded resonators by incorporating \u03c4compensating materials locally into a multilayer LTCC structure. Chemical interactions can be minimized and physical compatibility between the \u03c4modifiers and the host LTCC dielectrics can be achieved. Therefore, a stripline (SL) ring resonator with near zero \u03c4can be fabricated in a non-zero \u03c4commercial LTCC that is temperature compensated.","As an example of the present invention, the formation of proper \u03c4compensating materials and subsequent successful cofiring of the materials in a DuPont 951 LTCC was demonstrated and SL resonators that have a near zero \u03c4can be achieved. The compensation of the \u03c4is realized locally inside a LTCC structure where the resonators reside. Therefore, existing LTCC material sets and processes can remain unchanged while incorporating the \u03c4compensation materials.","For high frequency applications, a ceramic module preferably has a high dielectric constant to enable a small resonator size, low dielectric loss to enable a high quality factor and narrow bandwidth, and a small temperature coefficient of resonant frequency to provide a temperature-independent resonance frequency. This is because many of the elements used in multilayer ceramic integrated circuits, such as filters and resonators, need to be very stable under drifts in temperature. The temperature coefficient of resonant frequency \u03c4is a device parameter which can be expressed in basic material properties:\n\n\u03c4=+\u00bd\u03c4\u2212\u03b1\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere \u03c4 is the temperature coefficient of dielectric constant and \u03b1 the coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE). For LTCC dielectrics, \u03b1 is typically between 4-10 ppm\/\u00b0 C., therefore \u03c4 dominates \u03c4.\n","From eq. (1) it is clear that \u03c4and \u03c4 have opposite signs. To compensate the negative \u03c4of LTCC, materials with negative \u03c4, and thus positive \u03c4, are necessary. Table 1 lists dielectric constant \u2208, \u03c4, and normal sintering temperatures of candidate ceramics that could serve as compensating materials for LTCC dielectrics.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Potential compensating materials."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"Dielectric ","\u03c4","Sintering"]},{"entry":[{},"Materials","constant","(ppm\/\u00b0 C.)","Temp (\u00b0 C.)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"TiO","110","\u2212750","~1200"]},{"entry":[{},"CaTiO","130","\u22121600","~1400"]},{"entry":[{},"SrTiO","285","\u22122400","~1550"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":"A. J. Moulson and J. M. Herbert, , Chapman & Hall, p 234, 1990."}},"The present invention is directed to a means to adjust temperature coefficient by cofiring locally in the multilayer LTCC structure with a compensating dielectric with \u03c4having opposite sign to that of host LTCC dielectric. The invention enables temperature compensation only in that portion of the LTCC structure where the resonator functions resides, without affecting other embedded functions where such implementation is not necessary or is undesirable. The invention can be applied to any existing LTCC with a proper selection and development of a cofireable compensating dielectric. A major advantage of this invention is that it enables the use of existing LTCC systems, such as cofireable conductors and other functional materials, without the need to revamp an entire cofireable LTCC material system.","The present invention uses \u03c4compensating materials and the cofiring of such materials in a LTCC module. shows a schematic side-view illustration an uncompensated LTCC module comprising a passive component  embedded between LTCC layers  and . For example, the passive component  can be a filter or resonator. -show some exemplary embodiments of the present invention. shows a layer of compensating material  disposed on one side of the passive component  embedded between LTCC layers  and . As shown in , one or more intervening LTCC layers \u2032 can separate the compensating material  from the passive component , so long as the electric field from the passive component  penetrates through the intervening LTCC layer \u2032 and the compensating material  to an electrical ground plane, for example, on the bottom surface of the module. Therefore, both the \u03c4of the intervening LTCC layer and the \u03c4of the compensating material can contribute to provide a near-zero overall \u03c4at the passive component. shows layers of compensating material  and  disposed on both sides of the passive component  embedded between LTCC layers  and . A different compensating material can be used on each side of the passive component. As shown in , one or more intervening LTCC layers \u2032 and \u2032 can separate the compensating materials  and  from the passive component . shows a layer of compensating material  on one side and an air gap  on the other side of the passive component  embedded between LTCC layers  and . Of course, the compensating material need not disposed as a layer on the passive component, but can be disposed on the passive component, for example, as a filled via  or an insert in a cavity in the LTCC layer, as shown in ","As an example of the present invention, compensating glass-ceramic compositions in paste form were cofired in a commercial LTCC. Evidence of both physical compatibility, measured by matched shrinkage, and chemical compatibility, characterized by material interdiffusion, is provided to demonstrate the cofireability. Stripline ring resonators in LTCC were fabricated and characterized to quantify the effect of temperature compensation.","Several commercial LTCC glasses were evaluated. The main requirement is that the chemical constituents and glass softening point Tof the LTCC match the onset temperature of shrinkage of the compensating material. One LTCC glass, designated as V-glass, was used as an example of the present invention. V-glass consists essentially of AlO, BaO, CaO, PbO, MaO and SiO. V-glass has density of 2.77 g\/cm, coefficient of thermal expansion of 5.5 ppm\/\u00b0 C., dielectric constant of 7.3 and glass transition temperature T=625\u00b0 C. Table 2 lists the formulations of candidate compensating materials. For this example, the weight % of V-glass was fixed at 55%. The base formulation was 55 wt % V-glass+45 wt % AlO. To demonstrate the invention, portions of the AlOwere replaced by different titanates at several weight percentages to form 5\u2032 a series of compositions. The mixture of V-glass, AlOand titanate was co-milled using AlOmedia to a median particle size 2.0 to 2.2 \u03bcm. For dielectric property measurement pellets at \u03c612.5\u00d71 mm from dry co-milled powder with binders were pressed using a 2-step process: a uniaxial press at 5000 psi, followed by an isostatic press at 30000 psi. The pellets were sintered at 850\u00b0 C.\/30 min in air. Au was sputtered on polished pellets to form electrodes.","Pastes of selected compensating materials were made using an organic vehicle ESL441 combined with thinner ESL401 (both from Electro-Science Labs) and a 3-roll mixing step. The pastes were screen printed on green LTCC tapes below and\/or over conductor lines to form temperature compensation layers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0026"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Formulation of compensating materials."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"V-glass","AlO","TiO","CaTiO","SrTiO"]},{"entry":["Composition","(wt %)","(wt %)","(wt %)","(wt %)","(wt %)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Base","55","45",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["TO10","55","35","10",{},{}]},{"entry":["TO30","55","15","30",{},{}]},{"entry":["CTO10","55","35",{},"10",{}]},{"entry":["CTO20","55","25",{},"20",{}]},{"entry":["STO10","55","35",{},{},"10"]},{"entry":["STO20","55","25",{},{},"20"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"10 mil DuPont 951 LTCC tapes were used with this exemplary material. Conductors included DuPont 5738 Au for via fill, 5734 Au for internal lines and 6143 Ag\/Pd for post fired external metallization. SL ring resonators at a designed base resonance of 1.5 GHz were fabricated in 4-layer 951 panels. All panels were laminated under a standard process of 3000 psi isostatic pressure at 70\u00b0 C. for 10 minutes. Panels were sintered at 850\u00b0 C.\/30 min in air on AlOsetters. Sub-miniature version A (SMA) edge connectors were soldered to resonator panels to access the embedded ring resonator for resonant frequency measurement.","Capacitance of the compensating materials was measured on sintered pellets using an HP4194A impedance\/gain-phase analyzer at 1 MHz inside a temperature chamber. The \u03c4was calculated from\n\n\u03c4=\u2212\u00bd(\u03c4+\u03b1)\u2003\u2003(2)\n\nwhere \u03c4is the temperature coefficient of capacitance and \u03b1 the CTE.\n","Shrinkage data of the compensating materials, in the form of cylinders at \u03c66.25\u00d75 mm, and the 951 dielectric, in the form of 5\u00d75 mm stack of 20 layer tapes, were measured using a Netzsch DIL 402 dilatometer. A scanning electron microscope (SEM) was used to analyze microstructure and interface of the cofired materials.","The SL resonators were placed inside a temperature chamber and characterized using an Agilent E5062A network analyzer from \u221250 to 80\u00b0 C. The resonant frequency fwas obtained as the minimum frequency of the reflection coefficient (S11) of the ring resonator. \u03c4was calculated using the following equation,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0031"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c4","f"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msub":{"mi":["f","ro"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["f","r"]}},{"mi":["\u0394","T"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["ro ","r "]},"Archimedes bulk density and dielectric constant of the sintered compensating materials are listed in Table 3. Both TO10 and TO30 showed a lack of adequate densification.  displays normalized capacitance, scaled to the capacitance value at 20\u00b0 C., of compositions CTO10, CTO20, STO10 and STO20 over the temperature range \u221250\u00b0 C. to 80\u00b0 C. \u03c4and calculated \u03c4of these compositions are also listed in Table 3.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0033"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Density and dielectric properties of compensating materials. \u03c4is"},{"entry":"calculated from \u03c4using eq. (2) assuming an \u03b1 of 7 ppm\/\u00b0 C."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Archimedes","Dielectric",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"bulk density","constant","\u03c4","\u03c4"]},{"entry":["Sample","(g\/cc)","(1 MHz)","(ppm\/\u00b0 C.)","(ppm\/\u00b0 C.)"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Base","3.19","7.8","190","\u221298.5"]},{"entry":["TO10","N\/A",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["TO30","2.77",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["CTO10","3.20","9.7","83","\u221244.9"]},{"entry":["CTO20","3.15","12.0","\u221258","25.5"]},{"entry":["STO10","3.21","9.6","10","\u22128.7"]},{"entry":["STO20","3.30","12.2","\u2212240","116.7"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The base dielectric has a \u03c4of 190 ppm\/\u00b0 C. and a \u03c4of \u221298.5 ppm\/\u00b0 C. Therefore, without the addition of titanates, the base dielectric has a higher \u03c4than the 951 LTCC. With the addition of 10 wt % of titanates, the CTO10 and STO10 still show positive \u03c4, and thus negative \u03c4. Obviously, the polarity of \u03c4of these two compositions is the same as that of the 951 LTCC. Therefore, these compositions were not expected to adjust the \u03c4towards zero, and were eliminated from further consideration. With a higher weight percentage of titanates, the CTO20 and STO20 reach a \u03c4of 25.5 ppm\/\u00b0 C. and 116.5 ppm\/\u00b0 C., respectively. Considering that the 951 LTCC has a \u03c4of \u221269 ppm\/\u00b0 C., the STO20 is expected to be more effective for \u03c4compensation, and was thus down-selected for a cofiring study and for the fabrication of proof-of-concept SL ring resonators.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"To validate cofireability of STO20 with 951, the STO20 paste was screen printed on a 3\u2033\u00d73\u2033 951 single layer tape in a square ring pattern and sintered using a normal profile, as shown in .  shows an optical image of a fractured cross section of the cofired structure. No deformation, either in 951 or in STO20, is visible, indicating a well matched sintering behavior. A close look at the STO20-951 interface by SEM is also presented in . A relatively clean interface exists between the two cofired materials, suggesting no or minimum interaction and interdiffusion between the two.","The normalized resonant frequency versus temperature and correspondent \u03c4data of 5 resonators are shown in : a resonator in 951 LTCC; two duplicated resonators with a single STO20 print on one side of the resonator line (STO20 1 layer); and two duplicated resonators with STO20 printed on both sides of the resonator line (STO20 2 layers). The inserts are cross section images that show details of the layered structures.","The 951 LTCC possesses a \u03c4at \u221268.9 ppm\/\u00b0 C. With the incorporation of single layer STO20, the \u03c4drops to 29.1 and 37.1 ppm\/\u00b0 C. for the two evaluated samples. The variation in \u03c4data may come from the actual thickness changes of the STO20 layer between different resonator builds. Overall, a single STO20 layer cofired next to the resonator conductor line reduces the \u03c4value of the non-compensated 951 LTCC approximately in half.","For the two resonators where the conductor lines are surrounded by the STO20 dielectric layers, one shows a \u03c4of 5.1 ppm\/\u00b0 C. and the other a \u03c4of \u22127.1 ppm\/\u00b0 C. The incorporation of two STO20 layers brings the tclose to zero. Again, the variation of \u03c4of the two samples may reflect the thickness variation of the printed STO20 layers. The fact that one resonator possesses a slightly positive \u03c4and the other a slightly negative \u03c4suggests that with a tight control on the thickness of the STO20 layer resonators with a true near zero or at zero \u03c4are achievable.","The present invention has been described as a method for localized temperature stability of low temperature cofired ceramics. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention, the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form part of the specification, illustrate the present invention and, together with the description, describe the invention. In the drawings, like elements are referred to by like numbers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sub":["f ","r ","r ","f "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sub":"f "}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
