---
title: Methods for reducing motion artifacts in shear wave images
abstract: Methods and non-transitory computer readable media that store executable instructions to perform a method for reducing motion artifacts in shear wave measurements are presented. Accordingly, reference pulses are delivered to a common motion tracking location (CMTL) and a plurality of target locations in a region of interest (ROI) to detect corresponding initial positions. Further, a shear wave is generated and tracked in the ROI using tracking pulses delivered to the CMTL and the plurality of target locations for determining corresponding displacements. Additionally, an average displacement of the CMTL is computed. Further, a motion corrected displacement for a target location in the plurality of target locations is estimated based on a displacement of the target location at a particular time, a corresponding displacement of the CMTL measured proximate in time to the measurement of the displacement of the target location and the average displacement of the CMTL.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08532430&OS=08532430&RS=08532430
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08532430
owner_city: Niskayuna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110728
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","BRIEF DESCRIPTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This invention was made with government support R01 AG029804 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.","Embodiments of the disclosure relate to diagnostic imaging, and more particularly to methods for reducing motion artifacts in shear wave measurements.","Medical diagnostic ultrasound is an imaging modality that employs ultrasound waves to probe the acoustic properties of biological tissues and produce corresponding images. Particularly, diagnostic ultrasound systems are used to visualize muscles, tendons and other internal organs to assess their size, structure and any pathological lesions using near real-time tomographic images. Further, diagnostic ultrasound also finds use in therapeutics where an ultrasound probe is used to guide interventional procedures such as biopsies.","To that end, conventional ultrasound devices include a plurality of transducer elements that convert electrical energy into mechanical energy for transmission, and mechanical energy back into electrical signals on reception. The ultrasound devices then process and transform the received electrical signals into a digital image of a target region, such as biological tissues, in near real time for facilitating further evaluation and therapy.","Recent ultrasound imaging techniques employ acoustically generated shear waves to determine the mechanical properties of biological tissues. Particularly, some of these techniques track shear wave induced displacements through a region of interest (ROI) to determine tissue mechanical properties such as shear speed and shear elastic modulus. To that end, the ultrasound devices generate shear waves in a target ROI in a corresponding phantom or actual biological tissues, for example, by delivering one or more pushing pulses. The generated shear waves cause time varying displacements while traveling from the point of generation to multiple locations along the target tissues. The ultrasound device may detect these displacements, for example, using standard Doppler tracking pulses. Particularly, tracking the shear wave induced displacements as a function of time at the multiple locations allows for shear velocity estimation, which in turn, aids in estimating one or more mechanical properties of the target tissues.","Characterization of tissue mechanical properties such as shear stiffness using shear velocity estimation has important medical applications as these properties are closely linked to tissue state with respect to pathology. Typically, at least a portion of a tissue may become stiffer than surrounding tissues indicating an onset or presence of a disease or condition such as cancer, tumor, fibrosis or steatosis.","Conventional shear velocity imaging techniques, however, suffer from probe and patient motion artifacts such as image blur, decorrelation, and groupings or stripes along the axial direction. These artifacts are more prevalent when a large ROI is generated from multiple acquisitions taken at different instants of time. The background motion will be different during the multiple acquisitions, which in turn, leads to the appearance of the striped artifacts in the shear wave displacement images.","In particular, movement of the ultrasound probe relative to the patient or internal motion such as respiration, cardiac motion, tremors and\/or vibrations during the course of the multiple acquisitions can also corrupt the measured displacements. The patient's cardiac motion, for example, may cause an axial displacement of ultrasound transducers on the order of about 1.5 mm to about 6 mm during systolic and diastolic phases of the cardiac cycle. Similarly, other movements such as respiration may cause displacements of varying orders resulting in artifacts in the shear wave displacement images. Attempts to prevent appearance of motion artifacts due to background and\/or patient motion using mitigating approaches such as specifically designed motion filters are often complex and require additional processing time and expense.","Thus, it is desirable to develop effective methods and systems for reducing appearance of motion artifacts during shear wave imaging. Particularly, there is a need for methods and systems that prevent, or at least substantially reduce the motion artifacts when imaging biological tissues using multiple acquisitions.","Certain aspects of the present technique are drawn to exemplary methods for reducing motion artifacts in shear wave measurements. The methods include delivering one or more reference pulses to a common motion tracking location and to a plurality of target locations in a region of interest of a subject to detect initial positions of the common motion tracking location and the plurality of target locations. Further, a shear wave is generated in the region of interest. Additionally, one or more tracking pulses are delivered to the common motion tracking location and to the plurality of target locations for determining corresponding displacements. The methods compute an average value of displacement of the common motion tracking location. Further, the methods estimate a motion corrected displacement for a target location in the plurality of target locations based on a displacement of the target location at a particular time, the corresponding displacement of the common tracking location measured proximate in time to the measurement of the displacement of the target location and the average value of displacement of the common motion tracking location.","Another aspect of the present technique includes further methods for reducing motion artifacts in shear wave measurements. To that end, the methods deliver at least two groups of shear wave scan sequences. Each of these groups comprises delivering one or more reference pulses to a first set of target locations in a region of interest of a subject to detect corresponding initial positions, where at least one of the first set of target locations is common to a second set of target locations. Further, a shear wave is generated in the region of interest. One or more tracking pulses are then delivered to the first set of target locations for determining corresponding displacements. Further, displacements for the first set of target locations are computed based on measurements captured using the one or more reference pulses and the one or more tracking pulses delivered to the corresponding target locations in the first set of target locations. Particularly, for each group of shear wave sequences, the determined displacements for the first set of target locations and the second set of target locations is interpolated to a common time. Further, a difference between the interpolated displacement of a target location in the first set of target locations and the interpolated displacement of another target location in the first set of target locations is computed. Additionally, the methods include estimating a seed value using the measured and interpolated displacements from the target location in the first set of target locations. Motion corrected displacements for other target locations in the first set of target locations are estimated based on the estimated seed value and the computed difference between interpolated displacement of the target location and the interpolated displacement of another target location in the first set of target locations. Additionally, motion corrected displacements for the second set of target locations are estimated using the computed difference and the motion corrected displacements estimated for target locations in the first set of target locations that are common to the second set of target locations.","Furthermore, non-transitory computer readable media that store instructions executable by one or more processors to perform a method for reducing motion artifacts in shear wave measurements using the exemplary methods described herein are also disclosed.","One technical effect of the methods and systems of the present disclosure is for reducing appearance of motion artifacts during shear wave imaging. In particular, a technical effect prevents or at least substantially reduces the motion artifacts such as image blur, decorrelation, and\/or axial stripes when imaging biological tissues using multiline acquisitions.","The following description presents systems and methods for reducing appearance of motion artifacts in shear wave displacement images. Particularly, certain embodiments illustrated herein describe the systems and the methods that efficiently mitigate the errors in the measured displacement values of one or more target locations in the ROI of a subject by evaluating the measured values with reference to the displacements measured at one or more tracking locations. The systems and methods use the evaluation for substantially improving the estimation of motion-corrected displacement values of the target locations, which in turn, reduces motion artifacts in the corresponding reconstructed images.","Although the following description includes embodiments relating to ultrasound imaging, the various embodiments may also be implemented in connection with other types of medical imaging systems, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) systems, computed-tomography (CT) systems, and systems that monitor targeted drug and gene delivery. Particularly, the systems and methods described herein, for example, find use in improving detection of cancerous lesions in breast, thyroid, liver, or other organs of a human subject. The present systems and methods may also be used to more accurately diagnose and stage liver fibrosis and to help monitor therapies including, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), and brachytherapy using motion-corrected shear wave measurements.","In certain embodiments, the present systems and methods can also be used for non-medical purposes, such as for nondestructive testing of subject elastic materials such as plastics and aerospace composites that may be suitable for ultrasound imaging and airport screening. An exemplary environment that is suitable for practicing various implementations of the present system is described in the following sections with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100"]},"As used herein, the term \u201creference pulse\u201d refers to an ultrasonic beam fired at a time when there is little expected motion or a known amount of motion. The reference pulse is typically fired prior to a pushing pulse, or long after a push at an instant of time when the tissue is considered to have returned to a resting or equilibrium position. Particularly, the reference pulse is fired to detect an initial or a reference position of the target locations. The term \u201cpushing pulse\u201d refers to a high energy ultrasonic beam used to displace the target tissues. Typically, the pushing pulse has a higher transmitting energy than the reference pulse. Further, the term \u201ctracking pulse\u201d describes an ultrasound beam similar to a reference pulse used to detect the position of the target locations at a particular instant of time. By way of example, the tracking pulse may be delivered shortly after the delivery of a pushing pulse to determine a displaced position of the target locations.","Accordingly, in certain embodiments, the system  includes transmit circuitry  that generates a pulsed waveform to drive an array  of transducer elements , for example piezoelectric crystals within a transducer probe , to emit ultrasonic pulses into a body or volume of a subject (not shown). At least a portion of the ultrasonic pulses back-scatter from the target locations, for example, adipose tissue, muscular tissue, connective tissue, blood cells, veins or objects within the body such as a catheter or needle to produce echoes that return to the transducer array  and are received by a receive circuitry  for further processing.","To that end, in one embodiment, the receive circuitry  is coupled to a beamformer  that processes the received echoes and outputs corresponding radio frequency (RF) signals. The RF signals are then provided to a processing unit  that processes the RF signals according to a plurality of selectable ultrasound modalities in near real time and\/or offline mode. Accordingly, the processing unit  includes devices such as one or more general-purpose or application-specific processors, digital signal processors, microcomputers, microcontrollers, Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGA) or other suitable devices in communication with other components of the system .","Furthermore, the processing unit  provides control and timing signals for controlling the delivery sequence of the different pulses, frequency of delivering the tracking pulses and the pushing pulses, a time delay between two different pulses, beam intensity and\/or other imaging system parameters. Particularly, in accordance with aspects of the present technique, the processing unit  provides appropriate timing and control signals to the transducer probe  and\/or the transmit circuitry  for generating a shear wave in a target region of a biological tissue.","In certain embodiments, the processing unit  stores the delivery sequence, frequency, time delay, beam intensity and\/or imaging system parameters along with other operational data in a memory device  for further processing. To that end, the memory device  includes storage devices such as a random access memory, a read only memory, a disc drive, solid-state memory device and\/or a flash memory. Alternatively, the processing unit  communicates the determined values to a shear wave generator  for generating a shear wave in a region of interest (ROI) of the target tissues. To that end, the shear wave generator , for example, includes one or more amplifiers, analog-to digital converters, digital-to-analog converters, filters, a memory and\/or a PCI bus interface (not shown). Although,  illustrates the shear wave generator  as an independent entity, in certain embodiments, the shear wave generator  may be implemented as part of the processing unit  or the transmit circuitry .","In one embodiment, the shear wave generator  controls the probe  or, more particularly, the transducer elements  to direct one or more groups of pulse sequences toward the target tissues to generate the shear wave. Alternatively, the shear-wave-generating module  controls another device (not shown) capable of generating shear waves, such as, a therapy transducer, a mechanical actuator, electromagnetic means or an audio device to generate the shear wave in the target tissues. The processing unit  then tracks the displacements in the ROI of the target tissues caused by the shear wave to determine corresponding tissue characteristics.","Accordingly, in certain embodiments, the processing unit  is further coupled to one or more user input\/output devices  such as a keyboard, touchscreen, microphone, mouse, buttons and\/or switches for receiving commands and inputs from an operator. In one example the processing unit  processes the RF signal data and prepares frames based on user-selected ROI and information for display on a display device , local or remote, communicatively coupled to the processing unit  and\/or the input output devices .","Particularly, the processing unit  evaluates the acquired ultrasound information and displays corresponding output patient data including diagnostic and therapeutic ultrasound images for review, diagnosis, analysis and treatment. In another example, the processing unit  stores the frames of the ROI for later review and analysis or communicates the frames to another location for further review. Further, in one embodiment, the display device  includes a graphical user interface (GUI) for providing a user with configurable options for imaging the target locations. By way of example, the configurable options may include a selectable ROI, a delay profile, a designated pulse sequence, a desired pulse repetition frequency and\/or other suitable imaging system settings to generate shear wave in the desired ROI.","Conventional ultrasound systems employ multiple shear wave excitations to build a large ROI. Any background motion present during data acquisition, however, will be different for different excitations, thus corrupting the displacement measurements and leading to motion artifacts in the ROI image. and illustrate schematic representations  and  depicting examples of erroneous estimation of an ROI caused by probe motion and patient motion, respectively. Particularly, and depict how the probe or patient motion that is not associated with the generated shear wave can cause, for example, an axial translation for the entire ROI, thus corrupting the estimated shear wave displacements.","To that end, in and , element  is representative of the ROI defined relative to the transducer probe , whereas element  is representative of the ROI defined by a tissue of interest . As evident from the depictions of the tissue ROI  and the probe ROI  in and , motion of the ultrasound probe  and\/or patient motion such as cardiac and respiratory motion causes the tissue ROI  to move axially\/vertically, laterally and\/or out of plane in relation to the probe ROI .","Occurrence of such background motion during the tracking firings for a particular target location corrupts shear wave displacements estimated for the target location. The corrupted shear wave measurements, in turn, result in the appearance of motion artifacts, such as striped noise patterns, in the shear wave displacement images leading to erroneous diagnosis and\/or prognosis. Accordingly, the ultrasound system  employs specific acquisition and processing steps to mitigate the corrupting effects of common background motion experienced during ultrasound imaging. Exemplary methods describing the specific acquisition and processing steps for reducing motion artifacts in shear wave measurements will be described in greater detail with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"300"},"Further, in , the exemplary method is illustrated as a collection of blocks in a logical flow chart, which represents operations that may be implemented in hardware, software, or combinations thereof. The various operations are depicted in the blocks to illustrate the functions that are performed generally during the acquisition and processing of ultrasound data. In the context of software, the blocks represent computer instructions that, when executed by one or more processing subsystems, perform the recited operations. The order in which the exemplary method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation, and any number of the described blocks may be combined in any order to implement the exemplary method disclosed herein, or an equivalent alternative method. Additionally, certain blocks may be deleted from the exemplary method or augmented by additional blocks with added functionality without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. For discussion purposes, the exemplary method will be described with reference to the elements of .","Generally, shear wave imaging is used to generate 2D or 3D images for various diagnostic and\/or prognostic purposes. Particularly, shear wave imaging allows differentiation between healthy and diseased tissues based on an estimated velocity of a shear wave as it propagates through designated target locations. Shear wave velocity, in turn, depends on material properties such as varying tissue density and shear modulus. Further, shear wave velocity is often determined using the displacements detected at various target locations. By way of example, the target locations include tissue regions that may have increased or decreased stiffness relative to the average surrounding tissue when afflicted with tumors, cancer and\/or hardened blood vessels. Presence of common background motion while tracking these target locations may distort the shear wave measurements leading to incorrect diagnosis.","Accordingly, the ultrasound system  employs the present methods to acquire additional data for use in mitigating the corrupting effects of common background motion present during ultrasound imaging using a common motion tracking location. In one embodiment, for example, the term \u201ccommon motion tracking location\u201d (common location) corresponds to a designated reference location in the target biological tissues.","Accordingly, at steps , the ultrasound system  begins processing by initializing a location index \u201ci\u201d to a value \u201c0\u201d corresponding to a first target location in a particular frame corresponding to an ROI in target biological tissues. Further, at step , the transmit circuitry  delivers one or more reference pulses to the common location to determine an initial or default position of the common location. At step , the transmit circuitry  delivers one or more reference pulses to a plurality of target locations to determine corresponding initial or default positions of the target locations. By way of example, the plurality of target locations corresponds to a plurality of lateral spatial locations corresponding to the target tissues. In certain embodiments, however, the plurality of target locations corresponds to a plurality of depths at a particular lateral and elevational location, a plurality of elevational spatial locations, and\/or a plurality of lateral spatial locations on the target tissue.","At step , the transmit circuitry  and\/or the shear wave generator  generates a shear wave in the region of interest in the target tissues, for example, using mechanical, electromagnetic and\/or acoustic means. Particularly, in one embodiment, the shear wave generator  employs acoustic radiation to deliver a pushing pulse at a particular location within the ROI. In an alternative embodiment, however, the point of delivery of the pushing pulse may be outside the ROI. Furthermore, in certain embodiments, the processing unit  customizes one or more parameters of the pushing pulse such as frequency, amplitude, and\/or pulse length according to imaging requirements. By way of example, the processing unit  adjusts acoustic power of the pushing pulse in view of a heating limitation associated with a particular target region. The shear wave travels through the target tissue and causes varying amounts of displacements at different locations in the target tissue.","The processing unit  then tracks the displacements caused by the shear wave at the target locations in the ROI. To that end, at step , the processing unit  initializes a tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d with a zero value. Next, the processing unit , at step , determines if the tracking counter variable \u201cn\u201d is less than a designated number of tracking pulse firings, \u201cN\u201d for the particular target location. If the tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d is less that the tracking firings \u201cN\u201d, at steps  and , the processing unit  directs the transmit circuitry  to deliver one or more tracking pulses at the common location and the target location \u201ci\u201d to detect corresponding displacements caused by the shear wave. To that end, the tracking pulses may be delivered to the common location and the target location \u201ci\u201d simultaneously or proximate in time. In certain embodiments, however, the tracking pulses may be delivered to the common location and the target location \u201ci\u201d at substantially different times and may later be interpolated to a common time during processing.","The embodiment illustrated in  depicts steps  and  corresponding to reference pulse firings before the steps - corresponding to generating the shear wave and tracking corresponding displacements. In an alternative embodiment, however, the one or more reference pulses may be delivered to the common location and the target location after the displacements caused by the shear wave have been tracked and the target tissue is considered to have returned to a resting or equilibrium position.","Further, at step , the processing unit  increments the tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d by a value \u201c1\u201d and the method returns control to the step . If at step , it is determined that the tracking count variable is less than the number of tracking firings \u201cN\u201d, the processing unit  increments the location index \u201ci\u201d by a value \u201c1\u201d representative of a next target location to be processed at step . Further, at step , the processing unit  determines if the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations, \u201cM,\u201d being tracked by the ultrasound system . If the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations \u201cM,\u201d the method returns control to step  for determining default\/initial positions of the common location and the next target location. The method, thus, acquires data for each of a desired number of target locations by delivering reference pulses, shear wave generating pulses and tracking pulses to the common location and corresponding target locations as discussed herein with reference to steps -.","However, if the location index \u201ci\u201d is greater than the total number of target locations \u201cM\u201d at step , the processing unit  ascertains that all the locations within the current frame have been processed. Accordingly, the processing unit  finishes processing the current frame at step . Alternatively, the processing unit  determines if a portion or the current frame needs to be processed again at step . Accordingly, the processing unit  returns the control to step  and repeats the data acquisition process for the current frame or terminates the processing of the current frame at step . In certain embodiments, the processing unit  may also terminate the processing of the current frame, for example, upon receiving user requests to change modes or parameters, on detecting a misplaced positioning of the probe  or inappropriate temperature and\/or based on image or data derived metrics and return control to step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["400","402","404","108","406"]},"Particularly,  illustrates exemplary pulse sequences , ,  and  delivered to the target locations L, L, common location  and L, respectively. By way of example, the ultrasound probe  delivers the pulse sequence  to determine displacements at the first location L. The pulse sequence  includes one or more reference pulses ,  delivered to the common location  and the first target location L, respectively to determine corresponding initial\/default positions. To that end, the ultrasound probe  delivers the reference pulses ,  to the common location and the target location Lsimultaneously or in an interleaving manner.","The ultrasound probe  then generates a shear wave in the ROI  of the target tissues, for example, by delivering a pushing pulse  at a particular location in the target tissues. The particular location of the delivery of the pushing pulse  may be proximate the target location Lor may be selected such that the generated shear wave causes a detectable level of displacement at the common location  and the target location L.","Further, the ultrasound probe  delivers one or more tracking pulses ,  to the common location and the target location to determine corresponding displacements caused by the shear wave traversing through the target tissue. Here again, the ultrasound probe  delivers the tracking pulses ,  to the common location and the target location Lsimultaneously or in an interleaving manner, particularly to detect any axial motion experienced at the common location and\/or the target location L. In certain embodiments, however, the ultrasound system  employs steered beams or other suitable techniques for detecting lateral motion. Further, the ultrasound probe  delivers the pulse sequences, such as ,  and  including one or more reference pulses, pushing pulses and tracking pulses to other target locations L-Land the common location  in the ROI  to acquire corresponding displacement data.","Presence of common motion such as movement of the probe, patient and\/or the room during ultrasound imaging, however, may corrupt the displacement measurements detected by the ultrasound system  at the common location  and the plurality of target locations . The corrupted displacement values affect the determination of the tissue characteristics such as stiffness and strain that are indicative of tissue health. Any corruption in the measured displacement values, thus, may lead to an incorrect medical diagnosis. Accordingly, the processing unit  uses the acquired displacement data corresponding to the common location to mitigate the corrupting influence of any common background motion present during the imaging process.","To that end,  illustrates a flowchart  depicting an exemplary method of processing the displacement data acquired using the method illustrated in  for estimating motion corrected displacement values for the target locations. Accordingly, the processing unit  evaluates data acquired from the plurality of target locations and corresponding displacements detected at the common location to estimate actual displacement of the target locations caused by the shear wave.","To that end, at step , the processing unit  initializes a location index \u201ci\u201d to a value \u201c0\u201d corresponding to the first target location, for example Lillustrated in . Next, at step , the processing unit  determines if the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations \u201cM,\u201d being tracked by the ultrasound system . If the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations \u201cM,\u201d the processing unit  initializes a tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d with a zero value at step . Next, at step , the processing unit  determines if the tracking counter variable \u201cn\u201d is less than a number of tracking pulse firings, \u201cN\u201d for the particular target location \u201ci.\u201d","If the tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d is less that the tracking firings \u201cN\u201d, at step , the processing unit  determines a displacement, {circumflex over (d)}[n], of the target location \u201ci.\u201d In one embodiment, the processing unit  determines the displacement detected at the target location \u201ci\u201d based on a difference between the reference and tracking pulse measurements at the target location \u201ci\u201d and time index \u201cn,\u201d where the time index \u201cn\u201d corresponds to the different times for which the displacement of the target location \u201ci\u201d is being estimated.","In certain embodiments, for example, the processing unit  measures the displacement of a specific target location using a cross-correlation with the reference pulse or a tracking pulse. In alternative embodiments, however, the processing unit  may use methods other than cross-correlation, such as, a sum of absolute differences, zero crossing techniques, a sum of the square error, least squares estimation, or other suitable motion estimation techniques. In one embodiment, for example, the displacement measured at the target location \u201ci\u201d may be represented using equation 1 presented herein.\n\n()=()+(), 1,3,5,7 . . . ]\u0394\u2003\u2003(Equation 1)\n","In Equation 1, the term {circumflex over (d)}(t) corresponds to the displacements measured at the target location \u201ci,\u201d while d(t) is the actual displacement at the target location \u201ci\u201d in absence of the common background motion G(t).","Similarly, at step , the processing unit  determines a displacement, {circumflex over (d)}[n] of the common location based on a difference between the reference and tracking pulse measurements at the common location and time index \u201cn.\u201d It may be noted that displacement of the common location may be determined at the same time as the displacement at the target location \u201ci,\u201d or at a different time. The displacement measured at the common location, for example, may be represented using Equation 2 presented herein.\n\n(+\u0394)=(+\u0394)+(+\u0394)\u2003\u2003(Equation 2)\n","In Equation 2, the term {circumflex over (d)}(t+\u0394) corresponds to the displacements measured at the common location including the common motion displacement, while d(t+\u0394) corresponds to the actual displacement at the common location caused by the shear wave.","Next, at step , the processing unit  increments the tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d by a value \u201c1\u201d and the method returns control to the step . If at step , it is determined that the tracking count variable is less than the number of tracking firings \u201cN\u201d, the processing unit  determines one or more displacement values corresponding to the displacements of the target location \u201ci\u201d and the common location detected by the remaining tracking firings.","Once the value of tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d equals the designated number of tracking firings \u201cN\u201d for the target location \u201ci\u201d, at step , the processing unit  increments the location index \u201ci\u201d by a value \u201c1\u201d representative of a next target location to be processed and returns control to step . If the new location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations \u201cM,\u201d the processing unit  performs steps - to determine displacements at the new target location \u201ci\u201d and the common location. The method, thus, determines displacement values for the remaining locations \u201ci\u201d in the plurality of target locations \u201cM\u201d and corresponding common location measurements.","However, if the location index \u201ci\u201d is greater than the total number of target locations \u201cM\u201d at step , the processing unit  ascertains that all the locations within the current frame have been processed. Accordingly, at step , the processing unit  determines an average value of displacement detected at the common location [n]. In one embodiment, for example, the processing unit  calculates an average displacement at the common location as the mean or the median of the displacements measured proximate in time to each of the firings corresponding to the \u201cM\u201d locations.","Alternatively, in certain embodiments, the processing unit  computes the average displacement of the common location as the mean of RF data or IQ data measured proximate in time to each of the corresponding firings at the \u201cM\u201d locations. Here, the IQ data corresponds to the complex analytic or the complex baseband version of the reference and tracking signals. Further, the processing unit  performs cross-correlation of the averaged RF or IQ data for the reference signals and the averaged RF or IQ data for the tracking signals to determine the shear wave induced displacement of the common location. Averaging the data or displacements detected at the common location over multiple firings typically reduces the common background motion component, while retaining the shear wave induced displacement component at the common location.","Similarly, the samples acquired from the plurality of target locations include the displacement caused by the common background motion in addition to the displacement caused by the shear wave traversing through the ROI. Typically, the common background motion is substantially the same at different locations in the target tissues during a particular time. Accordingly, the processing unit  processes the acquired samples for eliminating value of the displacement caused due to the common background motion from the displacement detected at the target location \u201ci.\u201d","However, there may be a time lag between the delivery of the tracking pulses to the target location \u201ci\u201d and the common location. Accordingly, at step , the processing unit  interpolates the measured displacements for the target location \u201ci\u201d and the common location to a common time. As used herein, the term \u201ccommon time\u201d corresponds to substantially the same instant of time. Since the common motion is a function of time, interpolating the displacements at the target location \u201ci\u201d and the common location to the common time allows for an improved removal of the common motion. Accordingly, in one embodiment, the processing unit  uses an exemplary linear interpolation depicted in the following Equation 3 to obtain a common time sample \u201ct.\u201d Alternative embodiments, however, may employ higher order interpolations and\/or sophisticated filtering techniques.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"d","mo":"^"},"mi":"CTL"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"d","mo":"^"},"mi":"CTL"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["t","\u0394"],"mo":"-"}}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"d","mo":"^"},"mi":"CTL"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["t","\u0394"],"mo":"+"}}}],"mo":"+"},"mn":"2"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"3"}}}]}}}}},"In certain other embodiments, however, instead of interpolating the displacement values to the common time, the processing unit  identifies displacement values of the target locations \u201ci\u201d and the common location measured proximate in time.","Next, at step , the processing unit  estimates a motion corrected displacement for the target location \u201ci.\u201d To that end, in one embodiment, the processing unit  subtracts the displacement detected at the common location from the displacement detected at the target location \u201ci.\u201d Alternatively, the processing unit  subtracts the interpolated displacement of the common location (for example, illustrated in equation 3) from the interpolated displacement of the target location \u201ci\u201d (for example, illustrated in equation 1). The subtraction operation substantially cancels out the displacement due to the common motion, while retaining the value of displacement caused by the shear wave motion. Equation 4 illustrates the exemplary subtraction operation performed by the processing unit  to eliminate the common background motion component G(t).\n\n()\u2212()=()+()\u2212(()+())=()\u2212()\u2003\u2003(Equation 4)\n","Furthermore, the processing unit  adds the average displacement of the common location [k] computed at step  to the difference to obtain an estimate of the motion corrected displacement for the target location \u201ci.\u201d The motion corrected displacement value for the target location \u201ci,\u201d for example, may be represented using the following equation 5.\n\n()=()\u2212()+()\u2003\u2003(Equation 5)\n","The motion corrected displacement for the target location \u201ci,\u201d thus, is devoid of the corrupting effects of the common background motion component G(t). Accordingly, estimating the motion corrected displacement values by sampling the common location in between sampling the target locations allows for a more accurate assessment of the target tissue characteristics that may be indicative of the nature and extent of specific medical conditions. The accurately assessed tissue characteristics, in turn, aid a medical practitioner in providing an informed medical diagnosis for treating the specific medical conditions.","In certain other embodiments, however, the ultrasound system  employs an alternative method for acquiring and processing data from a set of target locations instead of using a common location for estimating corresponding motion corrected displacement values. To that end,  describe an exemplary method that processes data acquired from sets of target locations for estimating motion corrected shear displacement values in greater detail.","Particularly,  illustrates a flow chart  depicting an exemplary method for acquiring data from a set of target locations for use in reducing motion artifacts in shear wave measurements. To that end, the present method delivers two or more groups of shear wave scan sequences to each set of target locations. The shear wave scan sequences, for example, include a group of ultrasound reference, pushing, and tracking firings delivered to an ROI in the target tissues for generating a shear wave and tracking displacements caused by the propagation of the shear wave in the ROI of a subject.","Accordingly, at step , the processing unit  initializes a location index \u201ci\u201d to a value \u201c0\u201d corresponding to a first set of two or more target locations in a particular frame corresponding to an ROI of the target tissues. At step , the processing unit  ascertains if the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than the total number of target locations \u201cM\u201d being tracked. If the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than \u201cM\u22121,\u201d the processing unit  initializes another index \u201cj\u201d corresponding to another target location in the first set of target locations to \u201ci\u201d+1, the target location \u201cj\u201d being common to a second set of target locations. However, if \u201ci\u201d is equal to \u201cM\u22121,\u201d the processing unit  initializes the location index \u201cj\u201d to a value \u201c0.\u201d In one embodiment, the location \u201cj\u201d is representative of a target location adjacent to the target location \u201ci.\u201d In other exemplary implementations, however, the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d may correspond to target locations in any designated ordering or in random order in the ROI of the target tissues.","Although  describes the present method using a pair of target locations, certain other embodiments may process sets of two or more target locations in groups to cancel out or at least substantially reduce the corrupting effects of the common background motion from the displacement measurements.","Further, at step , the transmit circuitry  delivers one or more reference pulses to the set of target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d to determine corresponding initial, reference or default positions. At step , the transmit circuitry  and\/or the shear wave generator  generate a shear wave in the ROI of the target tissues, for example, using mechanical, electromagnetic and\/or acoustic means. Particularly, in one embodiment, the shear wave generator  employs acoustic radiation to deliver a pushing pulse at a particular location within or outside the ROI. The generated shear wave travels through the target tissues and causes varying amounts of displacements at different locations in the target tissue.","The processing unit  then tracks the displacements caused by the shear wave at the target locations in the ROI. To that end, at step , the processing unit  initializes a tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d with a zero value. Next, the processing unit , at step , determines if the tracking counter variable \u201cn\u201d is less than a designated number of tracking pulse firings, \u201cN\u201d for the particular set of target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj.\u201d If the tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d is less that the tracking firings \u201cN\u201d, at step , the processing unit  directs the transmit circuitry  to deliver one or more tracking pulses to the set of target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d to detect corresponding displacements caused by the shear wave. To that end, the tracking pulses may be delivered to the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d simultaneously or at different times.","Additionally, at step , the processing unit  increments the tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d by a value \u201c1\u201d and the processing unit  returns control to the step . If at step , it is determined that the tracking count variable is less than the number of tracking firings \u201cN\u201d, the processing unit  increments the location index \u201ci\u201d by a value \u201c1\u201d representative of a next target location to be processed at step . Further, at step , the processing unit  determines if the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations, \u201cM,\u201d being tracked by the ultrasound system . If the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations \u201cM,\u201d the processing unit  returns control to step  for determining default\/initial positions of the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj.\u201d The method, thus, acquires data for each of a desired number of target locations by delivering reference pulses, shear wave generating pulses and tracking pulses to the remaining target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d as discussed herein with reference to steps -.","However, if the location index \u201ci\u201d is greater than the total number of target locations \u201cM\u201d at step , the processing unit  ascertains that all the locations within the current frame have been processed. Accordingly, the processing unit  finishes processing the current frame at step . Alternatively, the processing unit  determines if a portion or the current frame needs to be processed again at step . Accordingly, the processing unit  either returns the control to step  and repeats the data acquisition process for the current frame or terminates the processing of the current frame at step . As previously noted, the processing unit  may also terminate the processing of the current frame, for example, based on user requests, probe misplacement, inappropriate temperature and\/or image or data derived metrics.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","108","702"]},"Particularly,  illustrates exemplary shear wave scan sequences , , , , ,  and  delivered to pairs of target locations L-Lto L-L. The scan sequence , for example, includes reference pulses ,  delivered to the target locations Land L, respectively, to determine corresponding initial\/default positions. The ultrasound probe  then generates a shear wave in the ROI  of the target tissues, for example, by delivering a pushing pulse  at a particular location in the target tissues.","Further, the ultrasound probe  delivers one or more tracking pulses ,  to a pair of target locations L-Lto determine a corresponding displacement caused by the shear wave traversing through the target tissue. Here again, the ultrasound probe  delivers the tracking pulses ,  to the target locations L-Lsimultaneously or in an interleaving manner, particularly to detect any axial motion experienced at the target locations L-L. Similarly, the ultrasound probe  delivers the other scan sequences - including one or more reference pulses, pushing pulses and tracking pulses to other pairs of target locations L-Lto L-Lto acquire corresponding displacement data.","As previously noted, the patient's breathing or other common background motion may corrupt the displacement measurements acquired from the scan sequences -. Accordingly, the processing unit  processes the acquired displacement data from pairs of target locations to mitigate the corrupting influence of common background motion present during the imaging process. To that end,  illustrates a flowchart  depicting an exemplary method of processing the displacement data acquired using the method illustrated in  for estimating motion corrected displacement values. Particularly, the processing unit  evaluates data acquired from pairs of target locations to estimate actual displacement of the target locations caused by the shear wave.","Accordingly, at step , the processing unit  initializes a location index \u201ci\u201d to a value zero corresponding to the first target location, for example Lillustrated in . Next, at step , the processing unit  determines if the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations \u201cM,\u201d being tracked by the ultrasound system . If the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than \u201cM\u22121,\u201d at step , the processing unit initializes another index \u201cj\u201d corresponding to another location in the set of target locations to \u201ci\u201d+1, the target location \u201cj\u201d being common to a second set of target locations. However, if \u201ci\u201d is equal to \u201cM\u22121,\u201d the processing unit  initializes the location index \u201cj\u201d to a value \u201c0.\u201d As previously noted, the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d may be located adjacent to each other, in random order or any designated spatial order in the ROI. Next, at step , the processing unit  initializes a tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d with a zero value. Next, at step , the processing unit  determines if the tracking counter variable \u201cn\u201d is less than a number of tracking pulse firings, \u201cN\u201d for the particular target location \u201ci.\u201d","If the tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d is less that the tracking firings \u201cN\u201d, at steps , the processing unit  determines a displacement, {circumflex over (d)}[n], of the target location \u201ci.\u201d In one embodiment, the processing unit  determines the displacement detected at the target location \u201ci\u201d based on a difference between the reference and tracking pulse measurements at the target location \u201ci\u201d and time index \u201cn.\u201d where the time index \u201cn\u201d corresponds to the different times for which the displacement of the target location \u201ci\u201d is being estimated. Similarly, at step , the processing unit  determines a displacement, {circumflex over (p)}[n] of the target location \u201cj\u201d based on a difference between the reference and tracking pulse measurements at the target location \u201cj\u201d and time index \u201cn.\u201d It may be noted that the displacement of the target location \u201cj\u201d may be determined at the same time as the displacement of the target location \u201ci\u201d or at a different time.","Next, at step , the processing unit  increments the tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d by a value \u201c1\u201d and the method returns control to the step . If at step , it is determined that the tracking count variable is less than the number of tracking firings \u201cN,\u201d the processing unit  determines one or more displacement values corresponding to the displacements of the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d detected by the remaining tracking firings.","Once the value of tracking count variable \u201cn\u201d equals the number of tracking firings \u201cN\u201d, at step , the processing unit  increments the location index \u201ci\u201d by a value \u201c1\u201d representative of a next target location to be processed and returns control to step . If the new location index \u201ci\u201d is less than a total number of target locations \u201cM,\u201d the processing unit  performs steps - to determine displacements at another set of target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj.\u201d The method, thus, iteratively determines displacement values for the remaining sets of target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d in the plurality of target locations \u201cM.\u201d However, if the location index \u201ci\u201d is greater than the total number of target locations \u201cM\u201d at step , the processing unit  ascertains that all the locations within the current frame have been processed.","The samples acquired from the different target locations include the displacement caused by the common background motion in addition to the displacement caused by the shear wave traversing through the ROI. Typically, the common background motion is substantially the same at different locations in the target tissues during a particular time. However, there may be a time lag between the delivery of the tracking pulses to the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj.\u201d","Accordingly, at step , the processing unit  interpolates the determined displacements for the target location \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d at a common time. The common time, for example, corresponds to either substantially the same instant of time or a designated period of time. As previously noted, the common motion is a function of time. Accordingly, interpolating the displacements of the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d to the common time allows for an improved removal of the common motion. In one embodiment, for example, the processing unit  uses one or more of linear or higher order interpolations and\/or sophisticated filtering techniques to obtain displacement values corresponding to, {circumflex over (d)}[t] and {circumflex over (p)}[t], at a common time sample \u201ct.\u201d However, in certain embodiments, instead of interpolating the displacement values to the common time, the processing unit  identifies displacement values of the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d measured proximate in time.","Next, at step , the processing unit  computes a difference between the displacements of each pair of target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj\u201d measured proximate in time. Alternatively, the processing unit  computes a difference {hacek over (\u0394)}[t] between the interpolated displacements of each pair of the target locations \u201ci\u201d and \u201cj,\u201d for example, as illustrated in Equation 6 where \u201ci\u201d varies from 1 to M\u22121. The subtraction operation substantially cancels out the displacement owing to the common motion, while retaining the value of displacement caused by the difference in the shear wave motion at the two locations.\n\n{hacek over (\u0394)}\u2003\u2003(Equation 6)\n","Further, the processing unit , at step , estimates a motion corrected displacement {hacek over (d)}[t] for the first target location \u201ci=0.\u201d To that end, in one embodiment, the processing unit  estimates a seed value for estimating the motion corrected displacement {hacek over (d)}[t] for the first target location \u201ci=0.\u201d The seed value, for example, is estimated as the measured and interpolated displacement value as in Equation 7.\n\n\u2003\u2003(Equation 7)\n","In an embodiment where the seed value is estimated as illustrated in Equation 7, the motion corrected displacement estimates may still contain a common background motion component. Although this common motion component may introduce a constant offset error in the image, the component will be the same for the entire image, thus, greatly reducing the appearance of striped artifacts in the image. In an alternative embodiment, however, the seed value is estimated from a separate set of firings at the target location \u201ci\u201d that is repeated to average out the background motion.","Next, at step , the processing unit  initializes location index \u201ci\u201d to \u201c1\u201d for processing the remaining target locations. The processing unit  ascertains if the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than the total number of target locations \u201cM\u201d being tracked. If the location index \u201ci\u201d is less than \u201cM,\u201d the processing unit  estimates motion corrected displacements of the next target location in the remaining target locations in the first set at step . To that end, the processing unit  computes a difference between the estimated seed value and the corresponding difference computed at step . Equation 8 illustrates the exemplary operation performed by the processing unit  to estimate a motion corrected displacement of each of the remaining target locations in the first set of target locations.\n\n\u2003\u2003(Equation 8)\n","To that end, at step , the location index \u201ci\u201d is incremented by one to estimate the motion corrected displacement values for each of the remaining target locations. In one embodiment, the processing unit  estimates motion corrected displacements for the second set of target locations using motion corrected displacements estimated for the target locations that are common to the first and second sets of target locations and the corresponding computed difference.","Processing actual displacements detected at pairs of locations to cancel the corrupting effects of the common background motion component substantially improves the quality of the corresponding ultrasound images. The high quality images, in turn, allow for a more accurate assessment of the target tissue characteristics indicative of the nature and extent of specific medical conditions. , for example, illustrates an ultrasound image  including striped artifacts owing to the corrupting influence of the common background motion. Typically, the striped noise pattern changes as a function of time and varies across the different tracking pulses because the ultrasound system  collects tracking pulses at different times.","Certain shear wave imaging techniques employ custom-designed filters to mitigate appearance of such striped noise patterns in the ultrasound images. These filters are not always effective or efficient in removing background motion artifacts from shear wave images. However, the present methods, such as described in FIGS. -, allow canceling the common motion from the shear wave measurements to allow generation of good quality ultrasound images, such as the image  illustrated in . More particularly, the present methods describe acquiring and processing data from a common location or a pair of target locations interpolated to a common time to average out the common motion from measured displacement values. The present methods, thus, reduce motion artifacts such as striped noise patterns to allow for generation of ultrasound images that aid in accurate diagnosis of medical conditions.","The exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed hereinabove describe the use of a common location or pairs of target to provide motion corrected shear displacement estimations. The motion corrected displacement values may then be used to generate high resolution ultrasound images that provide greater detail and reliable information regarding tissue characteristics to aid in a substantially accurate diagnosis.","The present systems and methods, thus, may be employed to generate ultrasound images that aid in assessing mechanical properties of tissues or any other material that is suitable for ultrasound imaging. By way of example, the systems and methods facilitate a more accurate assessment of arterial stiffness, muscle tone and kidney stiffness for distinguishing between healthy and diseased tissues based on an improved estimate of shear wave displacements. Additionally, the exemplary shear wave imaging methods may also be used in radio frequency (RF) ablation therapy such as used for liver cancer for monitoring the progress of the therapy in near real-time.","Furthermore, the foregoing examples, demonstrations, and process steps such as those that may be performed by the processing unit  and shear wave generator  may be implemented by suitable code on a processor-based system, such as a general-purpose or special-purpose computer. It should also be noted that different implementations of the present technique may perform some or all of the steps described herein in different orders or substantially concurrently, that is, in parallel. In addition, the functions may be implemented in a variety of programming languages, including but not limited to Python, C++ or Java. Such code may be stored or adapted for storage on one or more tangible, machine readable media, such as on data repository chips, local or remote hard disks, optical disks (that is, CDs or DVDs), or other media, which may be accessed by a processor-based system to execute the stored code.","While only certain features of the present invention have been illustrated and described herein, many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DRAWINGS","p":["These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present technique will become better understood when the following detailed description is read with reference to the accompanying drawings in which like characters represent like parts throughout the drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
