---
title: Slotted cylinder acoustic transducer
abstract: A slotted cylinder acoustic transducer assembly is provided that has a cylindrical housing shell and an electromechanical driver disposed within the shell. The driver is formed with a plurality of single crystal piezoelectric elements joined to the inner surface of the housing shell and arranged to form an electromechanical stack. Each piezoelectric element has a pair of sidewalls, wherein each sidewall provides an electrode having a predetermined polarity. Each single piezoelectric element has a tapering width between the sidewalls. The transducer assembly includes a plurality of electrically conductive members. Each conductive member is disposed between each pair of adjacent piezoelectric elements such that each electrically conductive member electrically contacts the electrodes of adjacent piezoelectric elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08717849&OS=08717849&RS=08717849
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08717849
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110909
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER PATENT APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","None.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention generally relates to acoustic transducers and more particularly, to slotted cylinder acoustic transducers.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","An acoustic transducer possesses the capability to transfer mechanical energy to electrical energy and vice versa. Typically, the acoustic transducer utilizes piezoelectric materials that react to pressure differentials by emitting an electrical charge. Therefore, any pressure wave impinging on an underwater transducer will generate an electrical charge proportional to the magnitude of the pressure. As a result, one can monitor underwater pressure differentials by monitoring the output charge from the piezoelectric material and associated transducer\u2014in an operation very similar to the use of an underwater microphone.","Alternately, by controlling the input voltage magnitude and signal characteristics, one can generate equivalent pressure waves underwater with a result very similar to an underwater speaker. Examples of such tasks for underwater acoustic transducers include scanning for shipwrecks or other underwater objects; probing the ocean floor for oil reserves; and monitoring temperature fluctuations in the ocean.","Slotted cylindrical acoustic transducers, also known as Slotted Cylinder Projectors (\u201cSCPs\u201d), are known in the art. Many prior art slotted cylindrical acoustic transducers use piezoelectric material (i.e. lead zirconate titanate, or PZT) as an active material. In a typical slotted cylindrical acoustic transducer, piezoelectric plates are adhesively bonded to the inner wall of a slotted cylindrical shell. The slots runs along the length of the cylinder. A cylinder can have either a constant-wall thickness or a tapered-wall thickness.","Slotted cylinder acoustic transducers are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,002,649, 6,678,213 and 7,719,926. U.S. Pat. No. 6,002,649, entitled \u201cTapered Cylinder Electro-Acoustic Transducer with Reversed Tapered Driver\u201d describes an electro-acoustic transducer that uses a cylinder having a tapered thickness. A piezoelectric driver element is located in the interior cavity of a cylindrical shell. The shell is fabricated from a metal or a laminated composite material. The driver element is mechanically-connected to the cylindrical shell by an epoxy bond between the outer surface of the driver element and the inner surface of the cylindrical shall. The driver element comprises a plurality of piezoelectric ceramic elements circumferentially arranged in a stack.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,678,213, entitled \u201cSlotted Cylinder Transducer with Trapezoidal Cross-Sectional Electrodes\u201d describes a slotted cylinder transducer that uses a cylinder that has a uniform thickness. A plurality of ceramic elements and electrodes are alternately disposed circumferentially on the inner surface of the cylinder.","U.S. Pat. No. 7,719,926, entitled \u201cSlotted Cylinder Acoustic Transducer\u201d, describes a slotted cylinder acoustic transducer that has a slotted cylindrical shell and a stack of piezoelectric ceramic elements that are bonded to the inner wall of the cylindrical shell. Electrodes are interposed in the stack of piezoelectric ceramic elements, wherein one electrode is positioned between a pair of adjacent piezoelectric ceramic elements. The slotted cylindrical shell has a tapered thickness.","Other acoustic transducer devices that use conventional piezoelectric material are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2,812,452, 3,773,898, 4,220,887, 4,257,482, 4,651,044, 5,229,978, 6,069,845, 6,285,631 and 6,781,288. Ferroelectric crystals are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3,773,898, entitled \u201cCompound Ferroelectric-Ferroelastic Crystal\u201d, and in U.S. Pat. No. 5,998,910, entitled \u201cRelaxor Ferroelectric Single Crystals For Ultrasound Transducers\u201d.","What is therefore needed is an improved slotted cylinder acoustic transducer that is relatively smaller in size and lighter in weight than the aforesaid prior art slotted cylinder acoustic transducers but yet is capable of providing the same acoustic power output as prior art slotted cylinder acoustic transducers.","Accordingly, it is a primary object and general purpose of the present invention to provide an improved slotted cylinder acoustic transducer that is relatively smaller in size and lighter in weight than prior art slotted cylinder acoustic transducers.","A further object of the present invention is to provide a slotted cylinder acoustic transducer that has a significantly higher bandwidth than prior art slotted cylinder acoustic transducers.","A still further object of the present invention is to provide a slotted cylinder acoustic transducer that has significantly lower acoustic impedance than prior art slotted cylinder acoustic transducers.","Accordingly, the present invention is directed to a low-frequency, slotted cylinder, acoustic transducer that projects low frequency (<500 Hz) pressure waves with large magnitudes. The slotted cylinder acoustic transducer of the present invention has a relatively smaller size and lighter weight than prior art slotted cylinder acoustic transducers; thereby, reducing required manpower and logistical resources when deploying the acoustic transducer.","Accordingly, in one aspect, the present invention is directed to a slotted cylinder acoustic transducer, comprising a cylindrical housing shell having an inner surface, an outer surface, a central major axis of curvature, a length and a thickness between the inner surface and the outer surface. The thickness is in a direction perpendicular to the central major axis of curvature. The cylindrical housing shell has a slot therethrough that extends in a direction parallel to the central major axis of curvature. The slot forms a gap in the cylindrical housing shell.","The slotted cylinder acoustic transducer further comprises an electromechanical driver disposed within the interior of the cylindrical housing shell. The electromechanical driver includes a plurality of single crystal piezoelectric elements joined to the inner surface of the cylindrical housing shell and arranged to form an electromechanical stack assembly. Each single crystal piezoelectric element has a pair of sidewalls wherein each sidewall comprises an electrode having a predetermined polarity.","The slotted cylinder acoustic transducer further comprises a plurality of electrically conductive members. Each electrically conductive member is positioned between each pair of adjacent single crystal piezoelectric elements and electrically contacts the electrodes of the adjacent single crystal piezoelectric elements.","In a related aspect, the present invention is directed to an electromechanical stack for use in a slotted cylinder acoustic transducer. The electromechanical stack comprises a plurality of single crystal piezoelectric elements arranged circumferentially. Each single crystal piezoelectric element has a pair of sidewalls and a tapered width between the sidewalls. Each sidewall comprises an electrode having a predetermined polarity. The electromechanical stack further comprises a plurality of electrically conductive members. Each electrically conductive member is disposed between each pair of adjacent single crystal piezoelectric elements and electrically contacts the electrodes of adjacent single crystal piezoelectric elements.","Referring now to the drawings, and more particularly to  and , there is shown slotted cylindrical housing shell  that is used in the slotted cylinder acoustic transducer of the present invention. An electromechanical driver  is disposed within an interior  of the shell .","The shell  has an inner surface , an outer surface , a central major axis of curvature , a thickness \u201cT\u201d between the inner surface  and the outer surface , and a length \u201cL\u201d. The thickness is in a direction perpendicular to the central major axis of the curvature . The shell  has a slot  therethrough that extends in a direction parallel to the central major axis of curvature .","The slot  forms a gap in the shell . In this particular embodiment of the invention, the thickness T of the shell  is uniform throughout the circumference of the shell. The shell  is fabricated from a material that provides the slotted cylinder acoustic transducer with the desired center operating frequency, such fabrication is known in the art. In one embodiment, the shell  is fabricated from a graphite-epoxy material. However, in other embodiments, the shell  is fabricated from aluminum, an aluminum alloy, steel or an iron alloy.","Referring to , the electromechanical driver  comprises a plurality of single crystal piezoelectric elements  joined to the inner surface  and arranged to form an electromechanical stack assembly. Each single crystal piezoelectric element  has a surface , an opposite surface , and a pair of sidewalls that comprise electrodes  and . The electrodes  and  are discussed in greater detail in the ensuing description. The surface  of each single crystal piezoelectric element  is adhesively bonded to the inner surface . In one embodiment, a two-component epoxy structural adhesive is used to bond the single crystal piezoelectric elements  to the inner surface .","Each single crystal piezoelectric element  has a width \u201cW\u201d between sidewalls. The width W tapers from the surface  to the surface . Each single crystal piezoelectric element  is formed from single crystal piezoelectric material known as PMN-PT or PZN-PT. The electrodes  and  are formed from a sputtering process in which a thin layer of metal is deposited on the sidewalls of the single crystal piezoelectric substrate. In one embodiment, the aforesaid metal is Gold. However, other suitable metals may be used (e.g. Silver, Nickel, Copper, Aluminum and\/or alloys thereof). The sputtering process is well known in the art and therefore is not described herein.","In one embodiment, the electrode  is the positive polarity electrode and the electrode  is the negative polarity electrode. In an alternate embodiment, the single crystal piezoelectric element  is configured so that the electrode  is the negative polarity electrode and the electrode  is the positive polarity electrode.","Referring to  and , an electrically conductive member  is disposed between each pair of adjacent single crystal piezoelectric elements  and electrically contacts the electrodes of the adjacent single crystal piezoelectric elements. For example, the electrically conductive member  electrically contacts the electrode  of one of the single crystal piezoelectric elements  and the electrode  of the adjacent single crystal piezoelectric element .","In a preferred embodiment, each electrically conductive member  comprises metal foil. Each electrically conductive member  comprises a tab portion . As shown in , each tab portion  extends from the electromechanical driver . Referring to  and , electrical conductors  are connected to the tab portions  such that all single crystal piezoelectric elements  are electrically connected together in a parallel circuit. In a preferred embodiment, the electrical conductors  are wires.","Referring to , the electromechanical driver  is configured to have a predetermined quantity of the single crystal piezoelectric elements  so as to yield a gap or slot  which is in proximity to the slot . In such a configuration, the single crystal piezoelectric elements  that are positioned on either side of the slot , indicated by reference numbers A and B, are in electrical contact only with one other single crystal piezoelectric element .","Referring to , there is shown an exploded view of a slotted cylinder acoustic transducer  in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The slotted cylinder acoustic transducer  comprises the cylindrical housing shell  and the electromechanical driver . In order to isolate the electromechanical driver  and the interior  from the surrounding medium (e.g., water), the cylinder housing shell  is encased in an elastomer material, or a rubber boot . Covers  are provided to seal the open ends of cylinder housing shell . Post  is attached to one of the covers  and extends through the interior  and is attached to the other cover by any suitable means (such as screw threads, or the like).","When the transducer  is assembled, the post  serves to maintain a slight separation between the covers  and the shell  so that the covers do not constrain the radial displacement of the shell. When the transducer  is assembled, the boot  extends over and is sealed to the covers  so that the interior of the cylinder housing shell  and electromechanical driver  are not exposed to the medium (e.g. water). An underwater cable connector  penetrates one of the covers  and is electrically connected to the electrical conductors . Thus, the electromechanical driver  is electrically-connected to the underwater cable connector . Electrical power is applied to the underwater cable connector  and thus, to the electromechanical driver .","In operation, when the transducer  is excited with an alternating, electrical signal, the electromechanical driver  expands and contracts in response to the signal. The expansion and contraction of the electromechanical driver  results in radial displacement of the housing shell  in the vicinity of the slot . This displacement, or flexural vibration corresponding to the expansion and contraction of the electromechanical driver , generates the acoustic signal.","Referring to , there is shown a slotted cylindrical housing shell  in accordance with another embodiment of the invention. In this embodiment, the thickness of slotted cylindrical housing shell  is tapered, wherein the thickness of cylindrical housing shell is greatest at a position opposite slot  and smallest at positions proximate to a slot .","The single crystal piezoelectric elements  of the electromechanical driver  are bonded to the inner surface of the cylindrical housing shell  in the same manner as the single crystal piezoelectric elements  are bonded to the inner surface  of the cylindrical housing shell . The transducer , shown in , may be modified to replace the cylindrical housing shell  with the tapered cylindrical housing shell . The tapered cylindrical housing shell  has a relatively higher bandwidth than the cylindrical housing shell .","The single crystal piezoelectric elements  exhibit five times the strain energy density of conventional piezoceramics. Thus, unlike piezoceramic actuators that employ strain magnification schemes, single crystal piezoelectric actuators can deliver higher strain levels without sacrificing generative force. The high electromechanical coupling of these single crystal piezoelectric elements increases transducer bandwidth, resulting in greater sensitivity and acoustic power. In addition, low strain hysteresis results in improved high power efficiency, and lower acoustic impedance than piezoceramics. The relatively lower acoustic impedance allows for easier matching to air or water.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 11"],"b":["50","150","50","150"]},"A transducer comprising the cylindrical housing shell  and the electromechanical driver  was constructed with a 0.072 meter diameter and a 0.13 meter length. A slotted cylinder acoustic transducer comprising the cylindrical housing  and the electromechanical driver  was constructed with a 0.12 meter in diameter, and 0.013 meter in length. The dimensions of both of these transducers were relatively small relative to the acoustic wavelength of the frequency at which each transducer is resonant, 3.75 meters; thereby, providing both transducers with the ability to radiate pressure waves with equivalent magnitudes in all directions. Such a characteristic is desirable for low frequency sound sources used for wide area surveillance.","Single crystal piezoelectric elements exhibit five times the strain energy density of conventional piezoceramics. Thus, unlike piezoceramic actuators that employ strain magnification schemes, single crystal piezoelectric actuators can deliver higher strain levels without sacrificing generative force. The high electromechanical coupling of these single crystal piezoelectric elements increases transducer bandwidth, resulting in greater sensitivity and acoustic power.","In addition, low strain hysteresis results in improved high power efficiency, and lower acoustic impedance than piezoceramics. The relatively lower acoustic impedance allows for easier matching to air or water. The slotted cylinder acoustic transducer of the present invention can be made smaller than the prior art slotted cylinder acoustic transducers but yet with the capability to provide the same acoustic power capabilities.","It will be understood that many additional changes in the details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.","The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed; and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereto will be appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 1-3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 9"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
