---
title: Method of converting an electromagnetic anechoic test chamber to an electromagnetic reverberation test chamber
abstract: The invention is a method of converting an electromagnetic anechoic test chamber into an electromagnetic reverberation test chamber. Lightweight and flexible conductive fabric is used to cover (fully or partially) the radio frequency absorbing walls of an anechoic test chamber. The conductive fabric is strategically arranged and disposed across the interior of the anechoic test chamber by a variety of means including magnets and low-loss dielectric frames.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08854246&OS=08854246&RS=08854246
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08854246
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20111102
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","CROSS REFERENCE TO OTHER RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","Not applicable.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to electromagnetic anechoic testing chambers, and more specifically to a method of converting an electromagnetic anechoic testing chamber to an electromagnetic complex cavity (or reverberation) testing chamber.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","Complex cavity radio frequency test techniques have been investigated for decades. These test techniques have been used to research real-world electromagnetic environments such as ship compartments, and have been integrated into compliance standards for electromagnetic compatibility, because of the robust nature of the testing and the strong correlation to real environments. The compliance testing utilizes a shielded, radio frequency reflective cavity to create a complex standing electromagnetic wave mode structure. The mode structure is \u201cstirred\u201d using one of a number of well-known methods, and the equipment being tested is subjected to a statistically known field over the course of the test. Presently, the testing chambers used for this compliance testing are constructed with the sole purpose of being used as reverberation chambers.","Electromagnetic compatibility standards also require radiated emissions and susceptibility testing to be performed in shielded anechoic chambers. These chambers are fully shielded from the outside electromagnetic environment and have radio frequency absorbing material placed on specific walls to reduce the amount of electromagnetic wave reflection within the chamber.","Due to the inherent nature of their respective designs, reverberation chambers cannot be substituted for anechoic chambers, and anechoic chambers cannot be substituted for reverberation chambers. Although both types of chambers are necessary for their respective testing purposes, it is rare for a single testing facility or research center to have both types of chambers due to the expense of constructing and maintaining them, as well as space limitations. There will be times when a facility that has an anechoic test chamber needs to perform complex cavity electromagnetic testing. What is needed in such a situation is a method to easily and temporarily convert an anechoic test chamber into a reverberation test chamber.","It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide a method for converting an anechoic test chamber into a reverberation test chamber.","This object is accomplished through the use of flexible conductive metalized fabric to temporarily and strategically cover the radio frequency absorbing material inside the anechoic test chamber in order to create the complex standing wave field required for the reverberation test chamber testing. The flexibility of the fabric allows the converted chamber to be loaded for specific purposes, as required by the specific test being performed, by being rolled or folded, thus exposing some of the radio frequency absorbing material intrinsic to the anechoic test chamber construction, yet still retaining the shielding integrity of the reverberation test chamber. A standard reverberation chamber would require extra absorbing material be brought into the chamber to perform the same loading. The field characteristics are adjusted by exposing the absorber on the wall by rolling or folding the fabric.","When installed, the flexible conductive metalized fabric reflects incoming electromagnetic waves and creates large variations in the magnitudes of constructive and destructive interference of the field in the chamber volume. The complex cavity test techniques take advantage of the interference created by the reflections. If the particular test required the field characteristics to be altered, then rolling and or folding the fabric to expose the absorbing material will cause less energy to be reflected and the field will change accordingly.","The present invention teaches a method for converting an anechoic test chamber into a reverberation test chamber. Referring to , , and  there are illustrated exemplary diagrams of the apparatus to implement the conversion method  and a series of steps representing the conversion method  of the present invention. The method  requires sheets of conductive metalized fabric  to be strategically arranged in such a way as to cover all or portions of the radio frequency absorbing material  on the wall  of the anechoic test chamber . The conductive metalized fabric  must be lightweight, less than four ounces per square yard. The conductive metalized fabric  must be flexible enough to fold and roll as needed without damaging the fabric  itself, and have a sheet resistance of not more than one ohm per square yard. Examples of such a fabric  include Swift Textile Metalizing, LLC's Ni Ag coated Nylon Taffeta, or Ni Ag coated Nylon Ripstop. In a preferred embodiment, the exact material of the fabric is not specified or limited by the method, but rather is inherently limited by the weight and conductivity requirements.","The first step  is to obtain the above-described conductive metalized fabric  in a sufficient quantity to cover all or portions of the radio frequency absorbing material  in the interior of the anechoic test chamber . The second step  is to employ an attaching means to attach the conductive metalized fabric  to the chamber walls  in such a way as to cover all or portions of the radio frequency absorbing material  on the wall  of the anechoic test chamber  with the conductive metalized fabric . In a preferred embodiment, the attaching means is one or more magnetic fasteners . The benefit of a magnetic fastener  is that it provides for the least amount of extra non-reflective material in the chamber , and is non-permanent to allow for easy removal. In an alternative embodiment, the attaching means is a low-loss dielectric frame  made of polyvinyl chloride for example and\/or a low-loss dielectric line , such as a nylon line. In a further alternative embodiment, the fabric  is draped from the ceiling  of the anechoic test chamber  using the attaching means. The third step  is to partially deploy the conductive metalized fabric  (i.e., by rolling and\/or folding the conductive metalized fabric  as illustrated in ) to strategically expose more of the radio frequency absorber material  already on the chamber walls , depending on the requirements of the particular test.","The advantage of the present invention is that this method allows the use of complex cavity test techniques in an anechoic chamber. Purpose built reverberation chambers are expensive, and require a large volume which is often difficult to find. This method provides a cost saving alternative to gain the benefits of both anechoic chambers and reverberation chambers.","In light of the above, it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon reference to the following description of the preferred embodiments and to the drawings, wherein corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
