---
title: Establishing business networks using a shared platform
abstract: The present disclosure describes methods, systems, and computer program products for establishing business networks based on shared usage of a common platform. One process includes receiving a set of registry data associated with a collaboration system from a first network participant executing a first application based on a first application platform. A request from a second network participant executing a second application on a compatible platform to the first application platform to access the set of registry data from the first network participant is received. Access is provided to the second network participant of a subset of data shared by the first network participant for collaboration. In some instances, providing access to the second network participant can include identifying a user associated with the second network participant to provide data access with the first network participant and assigning corresponding access authorizations to development entity instances associated with the identified user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256840&OS=09256840&RS=09256840
owner: SAP SE
number: 09256840
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20111201
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure relates to software, computer systems, and computer-implemented methods for establishing business networks.","A successful business or social network is usually supported by many active users and manifested with a large archived database contributed by the active users. In many instances, the successful business or social network needs to refrain from collection of subscription fees when there is limited tangible benefit for participants. Successful networks, such as Facebook, MySpace, Twitter, and others, attract users by providing free services by first investing in development of a website or a central server system. Users, in turn, by actively providing data to the website or the central server system for exchanging information in their networks, establish and prosper relationships with other users. Upon agreement, the data shared by the users can be used for revenue generating activities to recover and possibly make profits for the initial website or central server system investment.","The present disclosure describes methods, systems, and computer program products for establishing business networks. The present disclosure describes methods, systems, and computer program products for establishing business networks based on shared usage of a common platform. One process includes receiving a set of registry data associated with a collaboration system from a first network participant executing a first application based on a first application platform. A request from a second network participant executing a second application on a compatible platform to the first application platform to access the set of registry data from the first network participant is received. Access is provided to the second network participant of a subset of data shared by the first network participant for collaboration. In some instances, providing access to the second network participant can include identifying a user associated with the second network participant to provide data access with the first network participant and assigning corresponding access authorizations to development entity instances associated with the identified user.","While generally described as computer-implemented software embodied on tangible media that processes and transforms the respective data, some or all of the aspects may be computer-implemented methods or further included in respective systems or other devices for performing this described functionality. The details of these and other aspects and embodiments of the present disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.","This disclosure generally relates to software, computer systems, and computer-implemented methods for establishing business networks. Specifically, tools and methods are used to enable users of a software-as-a-service (SaaS) system to build network connections and share business data. Additionally, different users can form and join network communities without being limited to any particular website or server or both. The present disclosure can reduce business network development costs by allowing each user on the same service or application platform to initiate and establish the network, with the built-in capabilities of the service platform. In addition to reducing the effort in establishing business networks in a platform-based environment, the present disclosure also enables users to define dynamically the maximum scope of data (e.g., types and attributes) that may be shared with other participants.","Software products can be built upon a platform, where the platform is used as a basis upon which multiple applications are developed. As one example, proprietary on-demand business process platforms can be used to create many on-demand products, as well as, networked applications (NWAs) built using at least a portion of the platform. In certain implementations, on-demand products can be a fully integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP), or business management software solutions. The on-demand products can be a complete SaaS system in which software and its associated data are hosted centrally (for example, in a cloud-computing environment), and are accessed by users using a thin client (e.g., a web browser) over the internet.","An on-demand product may include functionality for integrated end-to-end business processes across several modules, including Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Financial Management (FM), Project Management (PM), Supply Chain Management (SCM), Supplier Relationship Management (SRM), Human Resources Management (HRM), Executive Management Support (EMS), and Compliance Management (CM). CRM supports processes that span marketing, sales, and service activities. FM can be another module that helps provide companies with a single, up-to-date view of the financial condition by integrating core business processes and financials that span financial, management, accounting, and cash flow management. PM can contain an integrated project management solution. SCM can cover supply chain setup management, supply chain planning and control, and manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. SRM focuses on relationships with supplies, procurement processes aimed at reducing cost, and to perform self-service procurement. HRM spans organizational management, human resources, and employee self-service. EMS can empower management with more control over the business and better decision making, with real time analytics for tracking business aspects. CM helps companies maintain compliance with changing laws and regulations and to meet regulatory standards. Some, all, or other modules or functionalities may exist in particular on-demand products.","As users are engaging the on-demand products in their businesses, data in various aspects of the modules and functionalities are generated. Some of the data may be shared to promote their businesses and\/or product uses. For example, data can be shared with other business partners to streamline supply and demand. Other data can be shared to attract future collaboration partners. By using a common platform among users of on-demand business applications, establishment of a business network can be facilitated between two or more of those users. The common platform may include use of an identical platform, different versions of the common platform, and different applications based on the common platform, among others. For example, collaboration, data-sharing and business network capabilities can be provided as embedded functionality in the on-demand business applications based on the common platform. Customers that are willing to participate in the network can be automatically visible to other network participants. Two or more customers can be connected to each other if both of them accept to establish a network relationship, which enables data sharing without restriction to specific data, information, and other collaboration materials.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["100","100","103","175","175","175","175","103","175","175","148","100","100","103","103","175","175","175","103","119","175","175","175","175","100","103","103","148"],"i":["a ","b","a","b ","a ","b ","a ","b ","a ","b ","b ","a ","a"]},"In general, the business network coordinator system  is any server or system that stores, manages, and executes functionality associated with an on-demand platform, including assisting in the establishing ad hoc collaboration business networks between two or more users or entities executing applications based on a common platform. In some instances, the business network coordinator system  may execute one or more business applications . For example, each business network coordinator system  may be a Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition (J2EE)-compliant application server that includes Java technologies such as Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB), J2EE Connector Architecture (JCA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI), and Java Database Connectivity (JDBC). In some instances, each business network coordinator system  may store a plurality of various applications, while in other instances, business network coordinator systems  may be dedicated servers meant to store and execute the business applications , which is built based on the on-demand platform technology and business content  (\u201con-demand platform\u201d) using the on demand platform technology and on demand platform business content. The coordinator, or central, system  may be one or more dedicated servers for managing all systems\/tenants that are part of a cloud computing environment. In some instances, the business network coordinator system  may comprise a web server or be communicably coupled with a web server, where one or more of the business applications  associated with the business network coordinator system  represent web-based (or web-accessible) applications accessed and executed through requests and interactions received on the tenants A and B (i.e., via application on platform -) operable to interact with the programmed tasks or operations of the corresponding on-demand platform  and\/or business applications .","At a high level, the business network coordinator system  comprises an electronic computing device operable to receive, transmit, process, store, or manage data and information associated with the environment . The business network coordinator system  illustrated in  can be responsible for receiving application requests from one or more tenants A and B (as well as any other entity or system interacting with the business network coordinator system , including desktop or mobile client systems), responding to the received requests by processing said requests in the on-demand platform  and\/or the associated business application , and sending the appropriate responses from the appropriate component back to the requesting tenants A and B or other requesting system. Components of the business network coordinator system  can also process and respond to local requests from a user locally accessing the business network coordinator system . Accordingly, in addition to requests from the tenants A and B illustrated in , requests associated with a particular component may also be sent from internal users, external or third-party customers, and other associated business applications, business processes, as well as any other appropriate entities, individuals, systems, or computers. In some instances, either or both of the on-demand platform  and\/or the business application  may be web-based applications executing functionality associated with a networked or cloud-based business process.","As used in the present disclosure, the term \u201ccomputer\u201d is intended to encompass any suitable processing device. For example, although  illustrates a single business network coordinator system , environment  can be implemented using any number of servers, as well as computers other than servers, including a server pool. Indeed, the business network coordinator system  may be any computer or processing device such as, for example, a blade server, general-purpose personal computer (PC), Macintosh, workstation, UNIX-based workstation, or any other suitable device. In other words, the present disclosure contemplates computers other than general purpose computers, as well as computers without conventional operating systems. Further, the illustrated business network coordinator system  may be adapted to execute any operating system, including Linux, UNIX, Windows, Mac OS, or any other suitable operating system.","In the illustrated implementation of , the business network coordinator system  includes an interface , a processor , a memory , a business application , and the on-demand platform . In some instances, the business network coordinator system  and its illustrated components may be separated into multiple components executing at different servers and\/or systems. For example, while  illustrates the business application  and the on-demand platform  as separate components, other example implementations can include the on-demand platform  within a separate system, as well as within as part of the business application's inherent functionality. Thus, while illustrated as a single component in the example environment  of , alternative implementations may illustrate the business network coordinator system  as comprising multiple parts or portions accordingly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["100","103","130","120","120","103","148"]},"The interface  is used by the business network coordinator system  to communicate with other systems in a client-server or other distributed environment (including within environment ) connected to the network  (e.g., one of the tenants A and B , as well as other systems communicably coupled to the network ). The interface  generally comprises logic encoded in software and\/or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically, the interface  may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network  or the interface's hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated environment . As illustrated in , the interface  enables an identity management system  to connect with the business network coordinator system . The identity management system  may be used to identify users to whom access to shared data is granted when they access shared data across systems or tenants. The usage of one or more identity management systems provides support for single sign-on services to be supported, avoiding a need for users to re-authenticate when they access shared data on other tenants. To avoid re-authentication, the identity management system  can provide the required user mapping.","The identity management system  can identify and manage users (related to particular tenants) in a system (such as a country, a network, or an organization) and control access to the resources in that system by placing restrictions on the established identities of the tenants. The identity management system  can be multidisciplinary and covers many dimensions, such as technical, legal, security and organizational dimensions. In some implementations, an identity can be constructed from a small set of axiomatic principles. For example, all identities in a given abstract namespace may be unique and distinctive, and\/or such identities can bear a specific relationship to corresponding entities in the real world. An axiomatic model of this kind can be considered to express \u201cpure identity\u201d in the sense that the model is not constrained by the context in which it is applied. In general, an entity and\/or user can have multiple identities, and each identity can consist of multiple attributes or identifiers, some of which are shared and some of which are unique within a given name space. The identity management system  can perform and\/or support user mapping to the same identity, removing a need to re-authenticate uses when the same identity attempts access over a particular tenant or system, such as when accessing collaboration data on different systems. In some instances, the identity management system  may be communicably coupled to the business network coordinator system  via network .","Generally, the business network coordinator system  may be communicably coupled with a network  that facilitates wireless or wireline communications between the components of the environment  (i.e., between the business network coordinator system  and\/or one or more tenants A and B ), as well as with any other local or remote computer, such as additional clients, servers, or other devices communicably coupled to network , including those not illustrated in . In the illustrated environment, the network  is depicted as a single network, but may be comprised of more than one network without departing from the scope of this disclosure, so long as at least a portion of the network  may facilitate communications between senders and recipients. In some instances, one or more of the components associated with the business network coordinator system  may be included within the network  as one or more cloud-based services or operations.","The network  may be all or a portion of an enterprise or secured network, while in another instance, at least a portion of the network  may represent a connection to the Internet. In the illustrated example, at least a portion of the network  includes a portion of a cellular or mobile data network or other network capable of relaying SMS messages. In some instances, a portion of the network  may be a virtual private network (VPN). Further, all or a portion of the network  can comprise either a wireline or wireless link. Example wireless links may include 802.11a\/b\/g\/n, 802.20, WiMax, and\/or any other appropriate wireless link. In other words, the network  encompasses any internal or external network, networks, sub-network, or combination thereof operable to facilitate communications between various computing components inside and outside the illustrated environment . The network  may communicate, for example, Internet Protocol (IP) packets, Frame Relay frames, Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) cells, voice, video, data, and other suitable information between network addresses. The network  may also include one or more local area networks (LANs), radio access networks (RANs), metropolitan area networks (MANs), wide area networks (WANs), all or a portion of the Internet, and\/or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations.","As illustrated in , the business network coordinator system  includes a processor . Although illustrated as a single processor  in the business network coordinator system , two or more processors may be used in the business network coordinator system  according to particular needs, desires, or particular embodiments of environment . The processor  may be a central processing unit (CPU), a blade, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), or another suitable component. Generally, the processor  executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the business network coordinator system  and, specifically, the functionality associated with the corresponding business application  and the on-demand platform . In one implementation, the server's processor  executes the functionality required to receive and respond to requests and instructions from the tenants A and B , as well as the functionality required to perform the operations of the associated business application  and the on-demand platform , among others.","Regardless of the particular implementation, \u201csoftware\u201d may include computer-readable instructions, firmware, wired or programmed hardware, or any combination thereof on a tangible and non-transitory medium operable when executed to perform at least the processes and operations described herein. Indeed, each software component may be fully or partially written or described in any appropriate computer language including C, C++, Java, Visual Basic, assembler, Perl, any suitable version of 4GL, as well as others. It will be understood that while portions of the software illustrated in  are shown as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects, methods, or other processes, the software may instead include a number of sub-modules, third-party services, components, libraries, and such, as appropriate. Conversely, the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components, as appropriate. In the illustrated environment , each processor  executes the corresponding on-demand platform  and the business application  stored on the associated business network coordinator system . In some instances, a particular business network coordinator system  may be associated with the execution of two or more business applications  (and other related components), as well as one or more distributed applications executing across two or more servers executing the functionality associated with the business network coordinator system .","At a high level, each business application  is any application, program, module, process, or other software that may execute, change, delete, generate, or otherwise manage information associated with a particular business network coordinator system , and in some cases, a business process performing and executing business process-related events. In particular, business processes communicate with other users, applications, systems, and components to send, receive, and process events. In some instances, a particular business application  may operate in response to and in connection with one or more requests received from an associated tenant A or other remote client. Additionally, a particular business application  may operate in response to and in connection with one or more requests received from other business applications  external to the business network coordinator system . In some instances, the business application  may request additional processing or information from an external system or application. In some instances, each business application  may \/represent a web-based application accessed and executed by remote tenants A and\/or B via the network  (e.g., through the Internet, or via one or more cloud-based services associated with the business application ). Further, while illustrated as internal to the business network coordinator system , one or more processes associated with a particular business application  may be stored, referenced, or executed remotely. For example, a portion of a particular business application  may be a web service that is remotely called, while another portion of the business application  may be an interface object or agent bundled for processing at a remote system (not illustrated) or a particular tenant A or B (e.g., the application on platform -). Moreover, any or all of a particular business application  may be a child or sub-module of another software module or enterprise application (not illustrated) without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Still further, portions of the particular business application  may be executed or accessed by a user working directly at the business network coordinator system , as well as remotely at corresponding tenants A and B ","The illustrated business application  may be created and developed based on an underlying software platform or platform layer, which can be used to provide functionality defined by the platform, as well as additional functionality available by building software applications upon the platform layer using components and entities designed or adapted for use with the platform. By creating the additional functionality, the platform can be extended and added to by a plurality of developers, providing for a fluid means of enhancement. In some instances, additional applications can be built on top of the original system by many different developers and development teams to create new products and software. The on-demand platform  and its corresponding consolidated on-demand platform can maintain a metadata repository storing information on the various models and their associated definitions and metadata across an entire development ecosystem, while the on-demand platform  may be used on which to create or to base newly developed applications.","The on-demand platform  may include multiple components of functionality, including those illustrated in example , as well as those illustrated in example . For example, the on-demand platform  of  includes three components, a customer control center , a system landscape monitor , and a tenant and system operation manager . In general, the customer control center  provides one or more application programming interfaces (APIs) to the tenants A and B for accessing the operations of the on-demand platform  remotely. In some instances, use of one or more APIs at the Customer control center  can allow for pre-publishing of one or more models to and\/or from the business network coordinator system  of .","The customer control center  allows tenants, such as the tenants A and B , access to the on-demand platform , and vice versa. The customer control center  may include a graphical user interface for selection of administration tools. For example, the tenants may monitor system health, retrieve system information, execute maintenance program, analyze system performance, improve execution procedure, organize files and information, and perform other control tasks via the customer control center . In some aspects, the customer control center  enables collaboration functionalities when tenants, such as the tenants A and B , access and operate on the on-demand platform  via the customer control center .","The system landscape monitor  can monitor operations, modules, and activities of the business network coordinator system , as well as those systems associated with the business network coordinator system , including the tenants and other systems and applications. The system landscape monitor  may be accessed by tenants such as the tenants A and B to access the published registry data and collaboration content. Further details regarding the communication between the system landscape monitor  and the tenants will be descried in detail in . In some implementations, the system landscape monitor  can collect and present a list of active tenants using the on-demand platform . The system landscape monitor  may categorize the active tenants by areas of business, technology, market orientation, and other aspects of the tenants. In some implementations, the system landscape monitor  can show resource distribution or allocation or both within the business network coordinator system  and enable administrators or tenants with administrator rights to modify and improve the resource distribution or allocation or both.","The tenant and system operation manager  supports communications between tenants, such as tenants A and B and the business network coordinator system . The tenant and system operation manager  can manage central instances of network establishments between tenants and enable the business network coordinator system  to monitor the network upon establishment agreement from all participants. For example, tenant A may publish certain data to the business network coordinator system . Tenant B may receive the published data registry and send an invitation, or request that an invitation be sent, to the tenant A to establish a business network. The tenant and system operation manager  enables these operations performed by the tenants A and B . If tenant A accepts the invitation from tenant B , then a business network can be established between tenant A and tenant B ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"],"b":["112","112","103","130","112","112","103","103","112","103","103","112","112","130","112","112","130"]},"The memory  includes several components associated with a collaboration and data sharing adapter  (illustrated external to memory ), which includes registry collaboration models , registry , on-demand modules , and database . The collaboration and data sharing adapter  enables tenants to publish and search shared registry data. For example, the tenants using the shared on-demand platform  have access to the embedded functionality for collaboration, data-sharing and network establishment. The tenants that are willing to participate in network establishment can select so and automatically publish their data via the registry collaboration models  in the collaboration and data sharing adapter . When some tenants search for collaboration partners, they can send or receive invitation for data sharing and collaboration by other tenants. The registry collaboration models  identify the tenants that agree to a business network establishing relationship.","The on-demand modules  in the memory  may include various functionalities of the business network coordinator system , and can be selectively provided to some or all of the tenants. As previously described, the on-demand modules  in the business network coordinator system  may include CRM, FM, PM, SCM, SRM, HRM, EMS, CM, and others. For example, tenant A may request services of a subset of the on-demand modules  from the application on platform , such as CRM, HRM, and EMS. Tenant B may request a different subset of the on-demand modules  on the application platform , such as FM, HRM, and EMS.","The shared data created by both the tenants A and B can be stored at the database , while the on-demand modules  remain standard to the on-demand platform . As part of SaaS, the database  may provide secure, efficient and reliable performance to the tenants. The tenants may specify a certain portion of data to be published in the registry and shared in the business network coordinator system . The registry collaboration models , the on-demand modules  and the database  enable the collaboration and data sharing adapter  to supply a frame work for different tenants to publish and search data as well as establish tenant-to-tenant network, without requirement of a central website or server.","The illustrated environment  of  also includes one or more tenants A and B . The tenants A and B may be associated with a particular business application or development context, as well as a particular platform-based application system. Each tenant A and B may be any computing device operable to connect to or communicate with at least one of the business network coordinator system  using a wireline or wireless connection via the network , or another suitable communication means or channel. In some instances, the tenants A and B may be a part of or associated with a business process involving one or more of the business applications , or alternatively, a remote developer of associated with the platform or a related platform-based application. In general, each tenant A and B includes a processor -, an interface -, an application on platform -, a graphical user interface (GUI) -, and a memory -. In some instances, tenants A and B may be located on a single server in a co-tenancy environment. In those instances, the tenants may share some or all of the resources of the server to perform their corresponding operations. In general, the tenants A and B comprise electronic computer devices operable to receive, transmit, process, and store any appropriate data associated with the environment  of . It will be understood that there may be any number of tenants A and B associated with, or external to, environment . For example, while illustrated environment  includes two tenants A and B , alternative implementations of environment  may include multiple tenants communicably coupled to the one or more of the systems illustrated. In some instances, one or more tenants A and B may be associated with administrators of the environment, and may be capable of accessing and interacting with the settings and operations of the on-demand platform , one or more business applications , a particular application development module, and\/or other components of the illustrated environment . Additionally, there may also be one or more additional tenants A and B external to the illustrated portion of environment  capable of interacting with the environment  via the network . Further, the terms \u201ctenant,\u201d \u201cclient,\u201d \u201ccustomer,\u201d and \u201cuser\u201d may be used interchangeably as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Moreover, while each tenant A and B is described in terms of being used by a single user, this disclosure contemplates that many users may use one computer, or that one user may use multiple computers. In general, tenants may usually belong to one customer or company. Several employees of the customer, called users, can use the applications deployed on the corresponding tenant. For instance, the term \u201ctenant\u201d refers to a system providing a set of business applications belonging to or rented by a particular customer or business entity. Several employees of that particular customer or business entity can be users of that tenant and use the business applications provided by or available on this tenant.","The GUIs -associated with each tenant A and B may comprise a graphical user interface operable to, for example, allow the user of a tenants A and B to interface with at least a portion of the business application , the on-demand platform , and their associated operations and functionality. Generally, the GUI -provides the particular user with an efficient and user-friendly presentation of business data provided by or communicated within the system. The GUI -may comprise a plurality of customizable frames or views having interactive fields, pull-down lists, and buttons operated by the user. For example, the GUI -may provide interactive elements that allow a user to interact with a particular component within and\/or external to environment . Different portions of the corresponding component's functionality may be presented and accessible to the user through the GUI -, such as through an application on platform -(e.g., a web browser). Generally, the GUI -may also provide general interactive elements that allow a user to access and utilize various services and functions of a particular component. In some instances, the application on platform -may be used to access various portions of different platform-based application systems or the business network coordinator system . In some instances, the application on platform -may be an agent or client-side version of the business application  or other suitable component. The GUI -may present the information of the application on platform -for viewing and interaction. In general, the GUI -is often configurable, supports a combination of tables and graphs (bar, line, pie, status dials, etc.), and is able to build real-time portals, where tabs are delineated by key characteristics (e.g., site or micro-site). Therefore, the GUI -contemplates any suitable graphical user interface, such as a combination of a generic web browser, intelligent engine, and command line interface (CLI) that processes information in the platform and efficiently presents the results to the user visually.","As used in this disclosure, each tenant A and B is intended to encompass a personal computer, touch screen terminal, workstation, network computer, kiosk, wireless data port, smart phone, personal data assistant (PDA), one or more processors within these or other devices, or any other suitable processing device. For example, each tenant A and B may comprise a computer that includes an input device, such as a keypad, touch screen, mouse, or other device that can accept user information, and an output device that conveys information associated with the operation of one or more business applications , on-demand platforms , and\/or the tenants A and B itself, including digital data, visual information, or the GUI -. Both the input and output device may include fixed or removable storage media such as a magnetic storage media, CD-ROM, or other suitable media, to both receive input from and provide output to users of tenants A and B through the display, namely, the GUI -. The tenants' processors -, interfaces -, and memories -may be similar to or different from those described in connection with the other components illustrated in , although alternative implementations of one or more of these components may be used, as well as implementations where additional components may also be included.","The applications on platform -may comprise applications based on the common platform for coordinating the described business network. As illustrated in , tenants A and B respectively contain a built-in collaboration and data sharing system, for example, the built-in collaboration and data sharing system  of tenant A . The built-in collaboration and data sharing system  may further include components such as a discovery manager registry , a business network builder , and business network coordinator agents . The discovery manager registry  enables tenant A to find available shared data in the registry. The business network builder  enables the tenant A to establish a business network after the tenant A discovers useful shared data. For example, the discovery manager registry  may access published shared data in the business network coordinator system .","In some instances, the discovery manager registry  may actually collect published shared data and\/or metadata describing a set of shared data for inspection at the corresponding tenant, allowing each tenant to view the set of information available for sharing and collaboration. Tenant A can send invitations via the business network builder  to other tenants of which the shared data are discovered by the tenant A . If the invited tenant accepts the invitation, a business network between the two tenants can then be established. The business network coordinator agents  can enables various components to work with central collaboration capabilities to allow for sharing. The Although in  only one built-in collaboration and data sharing system is shown, in some instances, every tenant may include an application based on the on-demand platform having a built-in collaboration and data sharing system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1A"],"b":["200","200","200","175","175","100","175","175","210","130","103","210","210"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","b "]},"Each of the tenants A and B includes a business application on platform  and . The business application on platform  and  can be realized on a web browser running on a remote computer. As an end user of an SaaS, the tenants A and B can access various modules of the business applications  without previous local installation of the business applications , as components of the business application on platforms  or  can be downloaded based on the demand of the tenant A and B . The business application on platforms  and , as illustrated, include built-in collaboration and data sharing  and . The built-in collaboration and data sharing  and  locally determines data publication and discovery in the tenants A and B . For example, tenant A may access a registry (as illustrated by ) across a network boundary  to communicate registry data and collaboration content. The registry data and collaboration content may reach the business network coordinator system  that is similar to the business network coordinator system  in . The business network coordinator system  may include several components to manage the registry data and collaboration content.","In some implementations, the business network coordinator system  may include a customer control center , a system landscape monitoring , a tenant and system operations , and a collaboration and data sharing adapter . The tenant A can publish and share some data with the tenant B by providing certain access to the shared data via the business network coordinator system . The access can be provided via different channels and entities provided by the platform, for example, a user interface view, web services, core services of business object, report, etc. The tenant B can be connected to the business network coordinator system  as a potential collaboration partner. The exact released and accessible data are defined and controlled via a user authorization mechanism provided via the on-demand platform on which the business applications  are based. The business network coordinator system  may include the on-demand platform as illustrated in . For example, a user of the tenant B can be provided access to at least a portion of the information stored at and owned by tenant A once a business network of data sharing is established between tenant A and tenant B . A functional- and instance-based authorization module, which is part of the on demand platform , can ensure that users can access only the data published as shared data, where the particular user is authorized to view the shared data. The shared data and services can be managed centrally via the collaboration and data sharing work center provided in the business applications .","In some implementations, tenants using an on-demand platform can access an on-demand platform registry, which can show other tenants that are using the same on-demand platform and have agreed to publish certain information in the on-demand platform business network that is supported by the business network coordinator system . The tenants can use standard search and browsing functions and retrieve header information entered by the tenants as they publish the information in the on-demand platform registry. For example, tenant A publishes registry data (as illustrated by ), where the registry data is managed by the business network coordinator system . The collaboration and data sharing adapter  of the business network coordinator system  can allow tenants to send explicit invitation for collaboration or data-sharing to one or several other tenants founded in the registry. If invited tenants accept the invitation, a relationship between both tenants can be established and both tenants can be shown as collaboration partners. For example, the business network coordinator system  may replicate metadata models and propagate authorizations (as illustrated by ) that connect to tenant B . In some instances, metadata models provided to the business network coordinator system  can be replicated to at least a portion of the built-in collaboration and data sharing systems , , such that those systems have relevant information on the data and information shared by the other users\/entities\/applications related to potential collaboration. The tenants A and B can form a business network via the business network coordinator system .","Until the business network is established via the business network coordinator system , the collaborating tenants may not access each other's data or share information except, in some instances, standard header information entered in the on-demand platform registry and published by the tenants. The on-demand platform registry can have access to the data collected by the business network coordinator system  that performs as a central component to allow monitoring and administration operations associated with connected tenants.","The business network coordinator system  can connect to an identity management system  via a registry connection . The identity management system  enables the customer control center  to recognize tenants and provide related information for operation monitoring. The business network coordinator system  may further include registry collaboration models and on-demand modules that are similar to those illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1A"],"b":["300","300","130","175","175","300","310","320","330","310","320","330","320","322","324","326"],"i":["a ","b "]},"In some implementations, the customer header data  includes header entries such as a title, an overall description, a registration name, and other summary labels input by a tenant who has created the entry. The customer header data  may have been published by default to the on-demand platform network by tenant usage agreements. The users roles  can define who has access to view the registry information and who can interact with the collaboration data. For example, if it has been defined by one company that any user at another particular company can look at the registered information, and a user has signed on for the company, the user can automatically be granted access to the collaboration data. In some instances, the user roles may be defined by a particular user's role within the collaboration partner, such as instances where only users meeting a particular role (e.g., technical expert, manager, etc.) within the collaboration partner's organization can access or view the collaboration data. The users roles  can be examined by the discovery manager , as accessible by other tenants on the on-demand network. The communication data  represents data published by tenants. The communication data  may be a subset of tenants' data that is shared for collaboration. For example, the communication data can be the contact information, such as phone number, email address, fax number, IP address, password information, or any other suitable communication information. The communication data  can be accessed by the discovery manager  which transfers the communication data  and\/or an overall description of the communication data  to the built-in collaboration and data sharing manager .","The business network builder  can access customer relationships module (including users) , partner shared metadata models , and own shared metadata models . The business network builder  can enable the tenant to invite and receive other partner tenants. The customer relationships module  identifies relationships between the hosting tenant and other tenants, or customers. The customer relationships module  includes information about users, tenants\/customers, and their relationships. The partner shared metadata models  may include existing partner shared metadata models, such as metadata obtained from existent business networks, or data sharing, or collaboration. The metadata models can include models defining the content that is being shared and the related registry information, allowing collaboration partners and their systems to be able to interpret and understand the shared data. The own shared metadata models  includes own shared metadata models that are published for collaboration purposes. collaboration The own shared metadata models  are published to the on-demand network registry and can searched by other tenants after establishing a collaboration relationship.","The built-in collaboration and data sharing manager  can further interface with a user interface controller , a one-step de-registration controller , a business network coordinator adapter , a business configuration adapter . The user interface controller  enables tenant to interact with the discovery manager  and the business network builder  by providing an appropriate user interface and related controls for viewing and interacting with the corresponding data and information. The one-step de-registration controller  allows tenants to use one-step de-registration to escape from an established business network. The business network coordinator adapter  allows the built-in collaboration and data sharing manager  to couple with a business network coordinator system, such as the business network coordinator system  in . The business configuration adapter  enables tenants to scope in and configure the collaboration and data sharing features in the same way as business data and business processes applications are scoped in and configured using the business configuration and scoping engine, which is part of the on demand platform infrastructure.","The one-step de-registration controller  enables customers who registered themselves as collaboration partners or who already have established collaboration and data-sharing relationships with other customers to de-register themselves in a one-step approach. When customers de-register themselves, the associated header information can be removed immediately from the registry and can no longer be browsed. In addition, all established relationship with other customers\/tenants can be removed immediately. The associated replicated metadata models to the systems of the collaboration partners can be removed and the same for the access authorizations granted to other collaboration users. Users can be notified automatically and informed about the removed access rights and\/or terminating data-sharing. A similar mechanism as the one-step de-registration can be used when a tenant or customer removes an established relationship. Metadata models and granted authorizations can be removed and the data-sharing can be terminated.","In some implementations, after a collaboration and data-sharing relationship is established between two tenants, further procedures may be required and\/or used to provide explicit data-sharing and data access. The collaboration user of a tenant such as the tenant A of  can provide access to other users of the tenant B. For example, a user of the tenant B can be selected so that a specified access to data of the tenant A can be provided, such as when users of tenant B are only visible to the tenant A after establishing a business network or collaboration relationship in-between. Corresponding access authorizations can also be assigned by pointing about the relevant development entity instances, such as assigning work center views, assigning reports, assigning business object core services, and assigning interfaces. For instance, if tenant A (or its users) want to share the information about scheduled production orders with a specific user of tenant B , then the report listing all scheduled open production orders, which is usually used by the user of Tenant A , can be provided\/assigned also to tenant B . Once the report is provided to tenant B , the users of tenant B may be able to access this report and see the list of the scheduled open ordered in tenant A (if they have the corresponding authorization\/access rights). After assigning or providing the report to tenant , the appropriate authorizations can be given to the users of tenant B having the appropriate roles defined in users roles modules . Because both tenants are using the same on-demand platform development infrastructure, the report can be provided from one tenant to other by passing the model presenting this report (in our example report model). The model can be integrated in the applications of the receiving tenant, and the data associated with the model can be retrieved via one or more remote access requests or communications with the publishing tenant. The shared models between tenants are not restricted to reports, but could be from different categories, including but not limited to work centers (collections of screens\/reports), business objects (e.g., objects exposing business data via standardized services), and other suitable types.","In some implementations, the business network establishment may require or use single sign-on capability of the on-demand platform. For example, the single sign-on enables users of collaboration tenants to access each other's data and tenant without the need for logging on or authenticating themselves more than once. In addition, the generic user mapping capability can allow to consider the user of the collaboration tenant in the same manner like the own users. The user mapping can be using a central identity management system available in the on-demand platform system landscape, such as the identity management system  shown in .","In some implementations, the corresponding user interface elements (e.g., reports, floor plans) and web services related to such data need to be assigned to a collaboration work center view. As such a collaboration view is created; the Work center view can be assigned to the users of the collaboration partner. The user can get authorization to access the data following the authorizations mechanism provided by the on-demand platform. After assignment of the collaboration work center view to the end user of the collaboration partner, the metadata models of those work center and the related entities are replicated to the tenant of the collaboration partner, and the work center view is assigned in the collaboration partner tenant to the end user. In an on-demand platform development infrastructure example, users' data access rights and authorizations are defined by means of a work center and work center views, following an authorization and viewing principle of \u201cwhat you see and what you can do are what you authorized to see and to do.\u201d","To access data of collaboration partner, the end user can call or display the collaboration work center and choose one of the collaboration partner. The corresponding metadata models and models that were previously provided to the end user, when the collaboration partner defined the data to be shared, are shown or provided (e.g., a list showing open production orders in the tenant of the collaboration partner). A connection to the corresponding system or tenant can be provided. Once provided, the corresponding data can be retrieved and presented. For example, the user interface engine is able to open several connections to different systems or tenants at the same time. A correct URL and metadata model can be replicated after the authorization assignment is created by a customer\/tenant that wants to share data with a collaboration partner. The assignment and scope of shared data can be completed in a flexible manner by the customer\/tenant who elects to share the data with the collaboration partner.","The collaboration and data sharing capabilities of the built-in collaboration and data system  can be integrated with the on-demand platform business configuration engine, which can be part of the built-in collaboration and data sharing manager . The business configuration engine can support business adaptation catalog and fine tuning Customers intending to share data with other collaboration tenants can scope in the collaboration functionality after adding the header information published in the registry. Other customers may browse for collaboration tenants for potential collaboration partners. Scoping in the collaboration functionality can lead to the deployment and activation of a collaboration work center. In addition, fine tuning activities can be added such that each customer can enter users that can share data with other collaboration tenants. For example, the email address and the business roles of those users can also be published to the collaboration tenants when a business network relationship is established.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["400","400","103","103","103","400","410","175","415","175","420"],"i":["a ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 2"],"b":["450","175","175","460","470","480","103","320","490","103","103","103"],"i":["a ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1A","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","510","520","530","103","148","540","545","550","540","560","570"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1A","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["600","103","610","620","630","640","348","320"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A"],"b":["700","103","710","175","175","715","720","730","740","750"],"i":["a ","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["800","700","810","103","820","830","840","830","850","860","870"]},"The preceding figures and accompanying description illustrate example processes and computer implementable techniques. But environment  (or its software or other components) contemplates using, implementing, or executing any suitable technique for performing these and other tasks. It will be understood that these processes are for illustration purposes only and that the described or similar techniques may be performed at any appropriate time, including concurrently, individually, or in combination. In addition, many of the steps in these processes may take place simultaneously, concurrently, and\/or in different orders than as shown. Moreover, environment  may use processes with additional steps, fewer steps, and\/or different steps, so long as the methods remain appropriate.","In other words, although this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments and generally associated methods, alterations and permutations of these embodiments and methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the above description of example embodiments does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes, substitutions, and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
