---
title: Ecommerce marketplace integration techniques
abstract: Various technologies and techniques are disclosed for integrating ecommerce marketplaces. An ecommerce integration framework has definitions for common data entities that are commonly used by multiple ecommerce marketplaces for listing items. Definitions for common operations that can manipulate the common data entities are provided. An application programming interface is provided that uses the common data entities and common operations to enable enterprise resource planning systems to exchange data in a standardized format with ecommerce marketplaces. Catalogs of items to be sold in ecommerce marketplaces can be created and managed using a customizable structure. The customizable structure enables catalogs to be created in a hierarchical manner with at least one parent catalog and zero or more child catalogs. Data values specified in a respective child catalog override data values specified in the parent catalog. A method for communicating with a particular ecommerce marketplace using an ecommerce integration framework is described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442865&OS=08442865&RS=08442865
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08442865
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110929
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/362,493 filed on Jan. 30, 2009 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8,036,942 on Oct. 11, 2011, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.","There are various ways to sell goods and services over the Internet. For example, a company can list products and\/or services for sale on its own web site. The company can also list products and services for sale on one or more ecommerce marketplaces, such as Amazon.com or eBay. The process of creating and managing listings on each of these marketplaces differs among all of the marketplaces. Thus, companies have to keep track of the various data fields and formats expected by each ecommerce marketplace on which they list their products and services.","Various technologies and techniques are disclosed for integrating ecommerce marketplaces. An ecommerce integration framework is described that has definitions for common data entities that are commonly used by multiple ecommerce marketplaces for listing items, and definitions for common operations that can manipulate the common data entities. An application programming interface uses the common data entities and the common operations to enable one or more enterprise resource planning systems to exchange data in a standardized format with the ecommerce marketplaces.","In one implementation, catalogs of items to be sold in one or more ecommerce marketplaces can be created and managed using a customizable structure. The customizable structure enables the catalogs to be created in a hierarchical manner with at least one parent catalog and zero or more child catalogs. Data values specified in a respective child catalog will override data values specified in the parent catalog.","In another implementation, a method for communicating with a particular ecommerce marketplace using a standard ecommerce integration framework is described. One or more connectors are implemented to communicate with a particular ecommerce marketplace. The connectors implement operations to manage listings on a particular ecommerce marketplace. The operations are defined in a standard ecommerce integration framework that is used by multiple connectors for particular ecommerce marketplaces. One or more of the operations implemented by the connectors are called from an enterprise resource planning system to manage one or more listings.","This Summary was provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","The technologies and techniques herein may be described in the general context as an ecommerce integration framework, but the technologies and techniques also serve other purposes in addition to these. In one implementation, one or more of the techniques described herein can be implemented as features within any type of program or service that manages ecommerce listings.","In one implementation, an ecommerce integration framework is provided for describing the data that is used in the process of listing items in ecommerce marketplaces. The term \u201citem\u201d as used herein is meant to include a product and\/or service or the combination of products and\/or services that are being offered by a company. The term \u201ccompany\u201d as used herein is meant to include an organization or an individual. The term \u201cecommerce marketplace\u201d as used herein is meant to include a web site that allows for the goods and\/or services to be listed and purchased by others. This web site could be a web site for just the company or a marketplace that brings together many companies' products. In another implementation, a mechanism is provided to synchronize this data with an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The term \u201centerprise resource planning system\u201d as used herein is meant to include an application used by a company to manage its products and\/or services that may be sold through various channels.","A common protocol is used for the exchange of data with ecommerce marketplaces. The data involved in this abstraction through the ecommerce integration framework can include product merchandising and inventory information, product catalog hierarchies, sales orders, customer payments, shipping information, tax information, and payment methods. These techniques will be described in further detail in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","104","104","106"]},"As a few non-limiting examples, the common operations  can include a create operation for creating one or more of the common data entities, a read operation for reading data contained in one or more of the common data entities, an update operation for updating data contained in one or more of the common data entities, and\/or a delete operation for deleting data contained in one or more of the common data entities. Alternatively or additionally, other types of common operations  can provide additional functionality, such as a publish operation that prepares an item (product or service) for listing in a particular one of the ecommerce marketplaces by determining what listing structure is needed by the particular ecommerce marketplace and then creating a mapping that translates data from the common data entities to the listing structure.","In one implementation, the definitions for the common data entities  and the definitions for the common operations  are exposed through an application programming interface . The application programming interface  uses the common data entities and the common operations to enable one or more ERP systems to exchange data in a standardized format with one or more of the ecommerce marketplaces. In one implementation, ecommerce integration framework  can enable synchronization to occur with ERP systems without the ERP system having knowledge of the differences between any particular ecommerce marketplace.","Turning now to , the stages and techniques for implementing one or more implementations of ecommerce integration framework  are described in further detail. In some implementations, the processes of  are at least partially implemented in the operating logic of computing device  (of ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":"200"},"On the ERP system side, there are ERP adapters , a synchronization service , application programming interface , an online management user interface , as well as online commerce objects . ERP adapters  are responsible for translating ERP system entities to and from common data entities, synchronizing data (through synchronization service ) between the ERP system and the ecommerce marketplace, and enhancing the user interface of the ERP system. ERP adapters can enhance the user interface of the ERP system by allowing management of the settings for communication with the ecommerce marketplace, the synchronization frequency and failure behavior, and the resolution of conflicts that occur during synchronization. Application programming interface  allows create, read, update, and delete operations to be performed on online commerce objects . In one implementation, application programming interface  allows online commerce objects  to be published to ecommerce marketplaces through marketplace connectors  and enable translation between different objects. Online management user interface  allows the company to view and manage catalogs and items in the catalog.","Online commerce objects  contain the details about the various items that that can be listed in one or more ecommerce marketplaces. These objects include a company object , catalogs object , catalog items object , listings object , orders object , prices object , fees object , descriptor object , marketplace object , and online store object . As described in further detail in , catalogs object  and catalogs items object  can support the functionality of hierarchical catalogs and\/or catalog items.","Descriptors object  allows ecommerce marketplaces and companies to define custom attributes required for listings on specific marketplaces. Descriptors include information about the data type, validation, rendering, and mappings to other entities. The listings object  includes standard listing attributes applicable to listings on any marketplace and descriptors objects  that are defined by and apply only to a specific marketplace. Listing attributes derive their values from catalog item attributes using a mapping defined by either the marketplace or the company.","Orders object  contains information about an order from an ecommerce marketplace, such as the items purchased, the shipping option selected, and taxes payable. Pricing object  contains pricing information, such as base sales prices, discounts by customer or by order contents, and promotions. The fees object  describes the fees charged by the ecommerce marketplace to the company for listing items or placing orders through their marketplace. Marketplace object  stores metadata about the ecommerce marketplace, such as the language used on the site, logos, and capabilities. Online store object  stores information about a company's account with an ecommerce marketplace, such as credentials, configuration, and usage statistics.","On the ecommerce marketplace side, there are various objects and\/or components as well. These can include, for example, marketplace connectors , connectors factory object , synchronization service , price engine object , and an online commerce database . Marketplace connectors  contain the mappings that show how to translate from the format supported by the ecommerce marketplace to the format of the ecommerce integration framework that is supported by the ERP system. The marketplace connectors  would not be present on the ecommerce marketplace side in implementations when the ERP system is doing the mapping instead of the ecommerce system. In such implementations, there would be connectors on one or more servers of the ERP system, as opposed to one or more servers of the ecommerce marketplace. The connectors factory object  specifies which of the marketplace connectors  to use.","Price engine object  contains the various policies, discounts, fees, and taxes that are used in the ecommerce marketplace. The online commerce database  stores various details for the ecommerce marketplace, such as common data entities and a configuration of the marketplace connectors . Synchronization service  on the ERP system side and\/or synchronization service  on the ecommerce marketplace side are responsible for synchronizing the data in one or more directions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["250","260","262","264","266","268","270"]},"Catalogs provide a way to create a collection of items and to customize the item attributes based upon the purpose of the catalog. In one implementation, all catalog items (such as  and ) belong to a master catalog . The master catalog  is a logical container that contains all the catalog items.","The master catalog  can have child catalogs (such as , , and ) that represent containers for a subset of the items from the master catalog . For example, the company could have a catalog named \u201cClearance Items\u201d which holds items from the master catalog that the company is trying to sell quickly. The child catalog could contain links to items from the master catalog which it contains. Child catalogs can have child catalogs, such as child catalog  which is a parent of child catalog . In one implementation, the architecture will support this hierarchy to an arbitrary depth (i.e. with no theoretical limit) that allows users to structure their catalog hierarchy in a way that fits their workflow.","Item attributes can be specialized (overridden) at the child catalog level, as shown in further detail in . This allows, for example, creating a child catalog that contains items with French descriptions. Another non-limiting example would be a child catalog to contain items with special descriptions for those items (products or services) that will be sold on a particular marketplace. These are just a few non-limiting examples of the ways the hierarchical structure can be used with catalogs. Numerous other hierarchical arrangements could be used in other implementations.","In one implementation, items in a child catalog are references, not copies. This means that the value of any attributes not specifically overridden in the child catalog is inherited from the parent, or the parent's parent, etc. Thus, if an attribute is changed at the parent level and the child has not overridden that attribute, the value for that attribute when evaluated at the child level will be the value at the parent level. This feature allows the company to make a correction or an update at the most general level and not have to repeatedly make this change for all the child items.","In another implementation, if any attribute is overridden (such as an attribute in child catalog ), then no data values are inherited from the parent catalog (such as master catalog ). In other words, once at least one attribute in a child catalog is overridden, then all of the attributes specified in the child catalog will override the attributes in the parent catalog.","In yet another implementation, attributes can be structured into attribute groups. In such an implementation, if any attribute in an attribute group in a child catalog (such as child catalog ) is overridden, then no data values are inherited from the parent catalog (such as master catalog ) for the attributes in that attribute group. In other words, if at least one attribute in an attribute group in a child catalog is overridden, then all of the attributes in that attribute group for the child catalog will override those attributes in the parent catalog.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["300","306","302"]},"At the next level in the catalog hierarchy, the company has chosen to specialize by store. This example shows a catalog for a US clearance store (child catalog ), a French auction store (French child catalog ), etc. At this level, attributes are specified that vary by store, such as price  or price . French child catalog  also has a child catalog, which is a French auction clearance store . The French auction clearance store  overrides certain attributes of the French child catalog  from which it derives. It will be appreciated that the hierarchical catalogs and item attributes shown in  are just exemplary to illustrate the concept in more detail, and that numerous types of catalog hierarchies, items, and item attributes could be used in other implementations.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["400","402"]},"User input, such as the listing information that was previously entered by the company, can optionally be validated to make sure it matches with the format expected by the connector(s) (stage ). In such a scenario, the connector can declare what format it expects through the use of custom attribute descriptors on the listing object, and this declared format would be validated before the connector was even invoked.","One or more of the operations implemented by the particular ecommerce marketplace are called from an enterprise resource planning system to manage one or more item listings (stage ). In other words, the ERP system makes a call to the operation(s) over the Internet or another network connection to invoke the functionality offered by those operations. This can include adding, updating, deleting, and\/or viewing data residing in the particular ecommerce marketplace related to that company's items that are listed for sale in that ecommerce marketplace.","In one implementation, one or more synchronization modules are used periodically along with the connector(s) to synchronize the data between the ERP system and the particular ecommerce marketplace (stage ). The synchronization modules can be contained on the ERP system and\/or the particular ecommerce marketplace to synchronize data in either direction so that the items for that particular company are updated on a periodic basis in both systems.","As shown in , an exemplary computer system to use for implementing one or more parts of the system includes a computing device, such as computing device . In its most basic configuration, computing device  typically includes at least one processing unit  and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device, memory  may be volatile (such as RAM), non-volatile (such as ROM, flash memory, etc.) or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in  by dashed line .","Additionally, device  may also have additional features\/functionality. For example, device  may also include additional storage (removable and\/or non-removable) including, but not limited to, magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in  by removable storage  and non-removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Memory , removable storage  and non-removable storage  are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Computing device  includes one or more communication connections  that allow computing device  to communicate with other computers\/applications . Device  may also have input device(s)  such as keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, etc. Output device(s)  such as a display, speakers, printer, etc. may also be included.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. All equivalents, changes, and modifications that come within the spirit of the implementations as described herein and\/or by the following claims are desired to be protected.","For example, a person of ordinary skill in the computer software art will recognize that the examples discussed herein could be organized differently on one or more computers to include fewer or additional options or features than as portrayed in the examples."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
