---
title: Photovoltaic system
abstract: A photovoltaic system described herein includes a first group of photovoltaic modules that comprises a first plurality of microsystem enabled photovoltaic modules. A second group of photovoltaic modules comprises a second plurality of microsystem enabled photovoltaic modules, wherein the first group of photovoltaic modules are electrically connected in parallel to the second group of photovoltaic modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08736108&OS=08736108&RS=08736108
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08736108
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110620
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/914,441, filed on Oct. 28, 2010, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/933,458, filed on Nov. 1, 2007. This application is additionally a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12\/957,082, filed on Nov. 30, 2010, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,329,503 which is also a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11\/933,458, filed on Nov. 1, 2007. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was developed under contract DE-AC04-94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.","Environmental concerns pertaining to utilization of fossil fuels to generate electrical power together with the non-renewable nature of such fossil fuels have increased demand for alternative energy sources. Exemplary electrical power systems that utilize renewable energy resources include solar power systems, wind power systems, hydroelectric power systems, geothermal power systems, amongst others.","Conventional solar power systems, particularly those utilized to provide electrical power to a residence, include solar panels that comprise a plurality of relatively large silicon photovoltaic cells (e.g., approximately six inches by six inches). The solar cells are manufactured to output a certain voltage (regardless of an amount of solar radiation of particular wavelengths received at the solar cells). In an example, a conventional photovoltaic system can include a relatively small number (e.g., 100) of large cells. The cells are arranged in columns, and cells in the columns are connected in series to multiply the voltage from the individual cells to get a module of 10s of volts (e.g., 36 volts).","In a residential photovoltaic system installation, several columns are connected in series to obtain a voltage of approximately 200 volts, which is substantially optimal for commercial inverters. Series connected photovoltaic cells generate a voltage that is approximately equal to the sum of the voltages of the individual cells, but the current is approximately equal to the minimum current output by any of the photovoltaic cells. Since the current of a photovoltaic cell is proportional to the light that is incident on the cell, if one cell of a series connection receives a low light level, the entire series connection has a low current. Thus, a typical solar power system configuration that includes multiple columns can have a severe current reduction (and power output) when one cell or a portion of a cell has a low light level (e.g., due to shading). Oftentimes, when photovoltaic systems are installed on residences or other buildings, trees or other obstructions may be nearby, and accordingly shading of at least a portion of a module can occur frequently.","The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.","Described herein are various technologies pertaining to photovoltaic power generation systems. More particularly, photovoltaic power generation systems that comprise a plurality of microsystem enabled photovoltaic modules that are selectively arranged in series and parallel are described herein. A photovoltaic power generation system includes a solar panel that is configured to receive solar radiation and convert such solar radiation to electric power. In an exemplary embodiment, the solar panel includes a plurality of microsystem enabled photovoltaic modules, wherein each photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells. The photovoltaic cells in the photovoltaic module are electrically connected in series with one another to obtain a desired output voltage for the photovoltaic module. The photovoltaic modules are selectively electrically connected with one another in series and parallel; accordingly, partial shading of one of the modules does not drastically impact power generated by another one of the modules.","Pursuant to an example, a photovoltaic module can include a plurality of multi-junction cells, wherein a multi-junction cell comprises a plurality of stacked photovoltaic cells, and wherein the photovoltaic cells in the multi-junction cell have differing bandgaps and differing operating voltages. Photovoltaic cells of the same type (same operating voltage) can be selectively connected in series, wherein photovoltaic cells connected in series (regardless of type of photovoltaic cell) produce substantially similar (e.g., within 10%) output voltages. For instance, the multi junction cells in a photovoltaic module can include Silicon cells and Gallium Arsenide cells, which have operating voltages of 0.57 volts and 0.9 volts, respectively. Accordingly, 18 Silicon cells can be connected in series while 12 Gallium Arsenide cells can be connected in series, resulting in output voltages of 10.26 and 10.8 volts, respectively. For example, the Gallium Arsenide cells can then be connected in parallel with the Silicon cells. A plurality of photovoltaic modules may then be coupled in series with one another to obtain a desired output voltage. For instance, a photovoltaic module group can comprise twenty serially connected photovoltaic modules, resulting in an output voltage of approximately 200 V from the photovoltaic module group. A plurality of photovoltaic module groups can then be coupled in parallel, such that shading over a particular module or group of modules causes current output from the photovoltaic system to be affected relative to the portion of the solar panel that is shaded.","Also described herein are various technologies pertaining to harvesting energy through renewable energy resources, including solar radiation. For example, a relatively thin device can be generated that comprises thin film batteries that can act to retain energy as well as dissipate energy. The device can further include a plurality of photovoltaic modules, such as the microsystem enabled photovoltaic modules referenced above, to generate electrical power responsive to receipt of light, and the thin film batteries can retain energy generated by the photovoltaic modules. Additionally, the device may comprise one or more rectifying antennas that are configured to generate energy responsive to receipt of at least one of infrared energy from the surface of the earth or microwaves received from terrestrial sources.","Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.","Various technologies pertaining to photovoltaic systems will now be described with reference to the drawings, where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. As used herein, the term \u201cexemplary\u201d is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something, and is not intended to indicate a preference. Further, as used herein, the terms \u201capproximately\u201d and \u201csimilar\u201d, when used with respect to certain variables or values, are intended to encompass a range of ten percent from a specified value or variable. Moreover, the term \u201cphotovoltaic cell\u201d when used herein, is intended to encompass a portion of a multi-junction photovoltaic cell as well as a single junction photovoltaic cell. Additionally, the term \u201cmodule\u201d is intended to refer to a portion of a solar panel that comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells.","With reference to , an exemplary photovoltaic system  is illustrated. The photovoltaic system  comprises a plurality of photovoltaic module groups -, wherein each of the photovoltaic module groups - have similar output voltages. Pursuant to an example, the output voltages of the photovoltaic module groups - can be approximately 200 volts.","Each of the photovoltaic module groups - comprises a plurality of photovoltaic modules that are electrically connected in series with one another to generate the desired output voltage. In an example, the photovoltaic modules can be approximately 5 cm by 5 cm in size. In another example, the photovoltaic modules can be approximately 4 cm by 4 cm in size. In still yet another example, the photovoltaic modules can be approximately 4 cm by 5 cm in size.","The first photovoltaic module group  can comprise a first plurality of photovoltaic modules (collectively shown as reference numeral ), the second photovoltaic module group  can comprise a second plurality of photovoltaic modules (collectively shown as reference numeral ), and the Nth photovoltaic module group  can comprise an Nth plurality of photovoltaic modules (collectively shown as reference numeral ). The photovoltaic modules  in the first photovoltaic module group  are connected in series with one another, the photovoltaic modules  in the second photovoltaic module group  are connected in series with one another, and the photovoltaic modules  in the Nth photovoltaic module group  are connected in series with one another. The output voltage of each photovoltaic module can be approximately 10 volts. Therefore, in an example, the photovoltaic module groups - can each comprise twenty photovoltaic modules.","The photovoltaic module groups - are connected in parallel with one another. Therefore, continuing with the example set forth above, the output voltage of the collection of photovoltaic module groups - is approximately 200 volts. As the photovoltaic module groups - are connected in parallel with one another, shading of a portion of any one of the module groups - does not drastically decrease the current output by the photovoltaic system . Rather, any reduction in current output by the photovoltaic system  is approximately proportional to an amount of shading of the portion of a photovoltaic module group.","As will be described in greater detail below, the photovoltaic modules - can be microsystem enabled photovoltaic modules that include numerous thin (0.1-50 \u03bcm thick), small (100 \u03bcm-10 mm laterally) photovoltaic cells that are built using micro-fabrication concepts. For example, the following references, which are incorporated herein by reference, describe the building of photovoltaic modules that comprise numerous photovoltaic cells using micro-fabrication techniques: Nielson, et al., \u201cMicroscale C-SI \u00a9 PV Cells for Low-Cost Power\u201d, 34IEEE Photovoltaic Specialist Conference, Jun. 7-10 2009, Philadelphia, Pa., 978-1-4244-2950\/90, and Nielsen, et al., \u201cMicroscale PV Cells for Concentrated PV Applications,\u201d 24European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Sep. 21-25, 2009, Hamburg, Germany 3-936338-25-6. In summary, these references describe one sun and concentrating systems with integrated micro-optical lenses, and further describe relatively thin cells that have been fabricated using epitaxial lift-off in Silicon and Gallium Arsenide with efficiencies exceeding 10%. Heterogeneously integrating (e.g., vertically stacking) different cell types with dielectric layers therebetween can yield high performance multi-junction cells, where a designer of the photovoltaic modules is free from lattice matching and series connection constraints of monolithic cells.","The size and efficiencies of the multi-junction photovoltaic cells allows for placement of several photovoltaic module groups in parallel with one another while retaining a desired output voltage. For example, a size of a photovoltaic module group can be approximately 100 cm by 100 cm. Therefore, several photovoltaic module groups can be placed, for instance, on a roof of a building in parallel while having a desired output voltage (e.g., 200 volts).","Now referring to , an exemplary photovoltaic module  that can be included in the photovoltaic module groups - is illustrated. Pursuant to an example, the photovoltaic module  can comprise a plurality of multi-junction photovoltaic cells, such that each multi junction photovoltaic cell comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells. Pursuant to an example, each multi-junction photovoltaic cell can comprise a Silicon photovoltaic cell and a III-V photovoltaic cell. In a more specific example, each multi-junction photovoltaic cell can comprise a Germanium (Ge) photovoltaic cell, a Silicon (Si) photovoltaic cell, a Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) photovoltaic cell, and an Indium Gallium Phosphorous (InGaP) photovoltaic cell.","The exemplary photovoltaic module  comprises 72 multi-junction photovoltaic cells, wherein each of the multi-junction photovoltaic cells comprises a Ge, cell, an Si cell, a GaAs cell, and an InGaP cell. These different cells are shown as laid out adjacent to one another; however, such layout is for purposes of explanation. As indicated above, the cells in the multi-junction cells are stacked on top of one another.","The photovoltaic module  comprises different numbers of each cell type connected in series (to create a string) to arrive at similar intermediate (higher) voltage. These strings can be connected in parallel to effectively add currents. In an example, a desired intermediate voltage may be approximately 10 V, and a Ge cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.3 volts, a Si cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.57 volts, a GaAs cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.9 volts, and an InGaP cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 1.3 volts. Therefore, the photovoltaic module  can comprise a first string of Ge cells  and a second string of Ge cells  that each comprise 36 cells connected in series. Accordingly, each of the first string of Ge cells  and the second string of Ge cells  outputs approximately 10.8 volts.","The exemplary photovoltaic module  further comprises a first string of Si cells , a second string of Si cells , a third string of Si cells , and a fourth string of Si cells . Each of these strings of Si cells - can comprise 18 cells connected in series, resulting in each string outputting approximately 10.26 volts.","The module  can additionally comprise a first string of GaAs cells , a second string of GaAs cells , a third string of GaAs cells , a fourth string of GaAs cells , a fifth string of GaAs cells , and a sixth string of GaAs cells . Each of the strings of GaAs cells  can comprise 12 cells connected in series, resulting in each string of GaAs cells outputting approximately 10.8 volts.","Further, the module  can also comprise a first string of InGaP cells , a second string of InGaP cells , a third string of InGaP cells , a fourth string of InGaP cells , a fifth string of InGaP cells , a sixth string of InGaP cells , a seventh string of InGaP cells , an eighth string of InGaP cells , and a ninth string of InGaP cells . Each of the strings of InGaP cells can comprise 8 cells connected in series, resulting in each string of InGaP cells outputting approximately 10.4 volts.","Accordingly, an intermediate operating voltage for each string of cells can be approximately 10 volts. It can be ascertained that the voltages don't exactly match, and accordingly the voltage output by the module  will be the lowest voltage of the series connections (10.26 volts). To improve efficiency, larger groups of cells (e.g., 819 instead of 72) can be selectively arranged in series and parallel.","Because only one type of cell is initially connected in series, power output from other cells in the module  are relatively unaffected by spectral shifts causing a decreased output of one type of cell versus another. For example, a 10% reduction of current from one cell type yields a reduction in array current from 1-4.3%, depending upon which cell has reduced solar input. Therefore, the module  is less susceptible to output power reductions from spectral shifts that affect response of cell types in an unequal manner when compared to conventional photovoltaic modules.","With reference now to , an exemplary photovoltaic system  is illustrated. The photovoltaic system  comprises 24 photovoltaic module groups, wherein each photovoltaic module group comprises 20 photovoltaic modules that are connected in series. Therefore, if the photovoltaic modules shown in  comprise photovoltaic modules such as the exemplary photovoltaic module , the output voltage of any of the photovoltaic module groups is approximately 10.26 volts\u00d720, or approximately 205 volts. The photovoltaic module groups may be connected in parallel with one another, such that shading of a portion of any of the photovoltaic modules in any of the photovoltaic module groups affects current approximately proportionally to space on the photovoltaic module(s) that is subject to shading. Furthermore, size of the photovoltaic system  remains relatively small. For example, the photovoltaic system  can be approximately 90 cm by 96 cm.","While not shown, the photovoltaic system  can further comprise an inverter that transforms the voltage output by the photovoltaic system  from DC to AC at a phase desired by a consumer of electric power produced by such system . Further, while not shown, the photovoltaic system  can comprise microconcentrating optics that are configured to concentrate light from the Sun to the photovoltaic cells. In another exemplary embodiment, rather than undertaking precise voltage matching between cell types, microelectronics can be employed to cause intermediate voltages to be at desired levels. Accordingly, a photovoltaic module can comprise one or more DC to DC converters (with micro power tracking electronics) to cause intermediate output voltages to be approximately equivalent. Moreover, a photovoltaic module can comprise micro inverters that transform DC voltage output by a cell or series of cells into AC voltage. As the cells are relatively small in size, there is sufficient room between cells for adding various microelectronic devices for boosting, conversion, and power tracking.","With reference now to , a cutaway view of an exemplary multi-junction photovoltaic cell  is illustrated. The multi-junction photovoltaic cell  comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells: an InGaP cell  that initially receives light from the Sun; a GaAs cell  immediately adjacent to the InGaP cell; an Si cell  that is immediately adjacent to the GaAs cell , and a Ge cell  that is immediately adjacent to the Si cell . Therefore, the multi-junction photovoltaic cell  can include a Si cell as well as a III-V cell. It is to be understood that other arrangements are contemplated by the inventors and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto-appended claims.","Turning now to , an exemplary power system  that is configured to provide continuous power to an electromechanical device, such as an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), is illustrated. The power system  comprises a top encapsulating layer , which may include concentrators, for example, that are configured to receive and concentrate light from the Sun. The power system  additionally comprises a solar layer , which can include one or more of the photovoltaic modules\/cells discussed above. The power system  further comprises a metallization layer  that acts to electrically contact solar cells\/modules in the solar layer . A flexible support layer  can provide structural support for the power system . An antenna layer  can comprise antennas that, as will be described in greater detail below, can act to harvest energy from non-conventional sources. A flexible support\/metallization layer  can provide structural support to the antenna layer  as well as electrical contacts for the antennas. A thin film battery  can retain power generated from the solar layer  and\/or antenna layer , and can dissipate electric power when needed by the electromechanical device. Accordingly, the power system  can provide continuous electric power to a continuously operating electromechanical device.","Additional detail pertaining to the layers of the power system  will now be provided. Pursuant to an example, the solar layer  can comprise a plurality of photovoltaic cells, such as those described above. Additionally or alternatively, the photovoltaic cells can be GaAs cells that have backside-only contacts, such as described in Cruz-Campa, et al., \u201cBack-Contacted and Small Form Factor GaAs Solar Cell\u201d, IEEE Photovoltaics Specialists Conference 35, Jun. 21-25, 2010, Pages 1-5, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. In summary, using microsystem\/MEMS concepts, thin crystalline silicon and crystalline GaAs PV cells can be included in the solar layer . For instance, c-Si cells can be approximately 20 microns thick and have back-side only contacts. Additionally, GaAs cells can be approximately 1-5 \u03bcm thick. Once fabricated, such cells can be assembled on a receiving substrate with metallization for connections between the cells. Because the cells are completely fabricated with all anneals prior to being assembled, requirements for the receiving substrate are minimal. Thus, inexpensive, low-temperature materials can be used, opening the door for use of flexible and moldable polymers to act as the substrate.","The antenna layer , in an example, may comprise a thermal infrared antenna (IR rectenna) and\/or a microwave rectifying antenna array and a focused microwave beam source that is designed for wireless energy transfer. The antenna layer  may further comprise microelectronics that facilitates boosting power output from at least one rectifying antenna, such as a DC to DC inverter that is electrically coupled to the rectifying antenna that magnifies DC current output from a rectifying antenna as well as a DC\/AC converter that is electrically coupled to the DC to DC inverter that converts the DC current to AC current. These modules can be employed to harvest energy in a night-time environment to support continuous provision of power to an electromechanical device, such as a UAV. That is, such modules can be utilized to supplement energy stored in the thin film battery  by the solar layer  during daytime photovoltaic operation. The sources of energy in a night-time environment are relatively limited, but include infrared radiation from the earth surface and stray or focused microwave electromagnetic energy from terrestrial sources. Accordingly, the IR antenna can be employed to generate energy based on IR radiation from the surface of the earth. Additionally or alternatively, a microwave rectifying antenna array and focused microwave beam source can be utilized to generate energy based on the terrestrial microwave background. Both of these schemes use rectifying antennas in their respective regions of the electromagnetic spectrum to directly convert incident electromagnetic energy to DC current.","The rectenna, in its simplest form, is a dipole antenna, a transmission line, and a rectifying diode. The incident radiation is collected by the antenna and transferred as a voltage onto a transmission line. The voltage signal at the end of the transmission line is rectified by a Schottky diode and a half wave rectified signal is obtained, which when filtered provides a DC current. Thermal emission from the surface of the earth can be converted to useful energy through use of an IR rectenna that efficiently converts incident IR energy to DC current, which is undertaken by scaling the existing concept of a rectenna to IR frequencies.","Frequency scaling to mid-IR can be accomplished through utilization of a fast diode rectifier that can respond at THz frequencies. For instance, tunneling diodes, such as metal insulator metal tunnel diodes formed at metal junctions, can be employed to rectify mid-IR radiation. To improve efficiency and large area performance of an IR rectenna, a large area resonant metallic IR perfect absorber can be designed that efficiently converts incident IR into bound electromagnetic surface modes (referred to as surface plasmons). A surface plasmon is a charge density excitation on the metal surface that will propagate down very small channels required for rectification. The conversion of the IR radiation into a bound surface Plasmon mode allows for propagation of the IR radiation into nanometer scale channels, which can act as the rectifying metal insulator metal tunnel diode to directly rectify the displacement current in the nanometer channel. The integration of a resonant IR absorber converting the incident radiation to a bound surface mode and its propagation into a rectifying metal insulator metal junction can enable efficient direct conversion of thermal emission of the earth to supplement energy retained in the thin film battery .","The thin film battery  may be, for example, a printed encapsulated liquid electrolyte battery. Integrated thin film battery sources are increasingly available based on either thin film technology (sputtered micron-thickness films) or coating technology (e.g. doctor blade, 100-500 micron thickness films); these are often limited in discharge rate capability and overall energy density due to packaging and area constraints. The ability to conformally print batteries of desired discharge characteristics on a defined available volume, with minimized packaging material, enables optimization of energy density and substantially maximized performance. Combination of a direct-printed LiFePO\/graphite liquid electrolyte chemistry with a microfabricated 3D current collector and anode (graphite) substrates provides for decreases in battery dead volume from 50% to 20% to improve 340 Wh\/kg cells to enable 575 Wh\/kg energy densities.","Recently, nanoparticles of nanoscale lithium olivine (e.g. LiFePO, LiMnPO) compounds have emerged as positive electrode materials for safe, high-power and long-life lithium rechargeable batteries. In these batteries, lithium is removed from LiFePOand intercalated into graphite during charging, and reintercalated into LiFePOon discharge. In the nanoscale LiFePOcompounds, the miscibility gap between two phases has been found to vanish for particles smaller than around 20 nm. This enables rapid charging and discharge without battery degradation or fire, and enables rapid discharge rates required for RF transmission that is not possible in normal high energy but low power lithium batteries. Direct-written batteries of these materials have achieved energy densities of 300 Wh\/kg, and a hybrid microfabricated anode\/separator with thick film LiFePOcathode can achieve 575 Wh\/kg by minimization of dead volume (maximum space-filling by elimination of inert packaging and separator content).","To develop direct-written batteries, effective encapsulation can be written on 3D surfaces as well as the active battery components. Recently, the capability to print UV-curable encapsulants based on epoxies and silicones has been developed, as well as printable cathode, anode, and separator chemistries with negligible performance degradation compared to commercial battery materials. Printed flexible silicone and epoxy encapsulants and battery layer thicknesses down to 10 microns (total cell thickness 50-65 microns) have been demonstrated using this fabrication method and design.","Thus, the thin-film battery  can be a fully direct written battery (cathode, anode, separator, encapsulant) with LiFePO, and can be integrated on arbitrary flat or curved surfaces. Microfabricated, 0.4-1 mm thick current collector\/anode honeycomb support structures with low dead volume can augment this performance, at the expense of battery flexibility.","In another exemplary embodiment, the thin-film battery  may be a Lithium battery. There have been significant advances in the energy and power density of batteries over the past fifty years which have mostly occurred through Edisonian improvements in the materials. These improvements, however, have not been enough to decrease the volume and mass of batteries in autonomous electrically driven systems to the point where they are a minor component. Typically, batteries comprise at least half of the total volume and weight of these systems. In addition, secondary (rechargeable) batteries, such as Li-ion, are desirably charged and discharged tens of thousands of time.","It is widely recognized that the power density limitations of Li-ion batteries is due to kinetic limitations of the cathode material and transport through the dielectric. For example, a pulse laser deposition technique can be used to co-deposit metal-oxide nano-particles (MnO2) and nano-porous carbon. Accordingly, large surface area to volume ratio of the nano-particles can result in a larger surface area to volume than possible with conventional techniques. Also, nano-porous carbon deposited using laser oblation has been shown to result in extremely high grain boundary densities, which are high diffusion paths for Li ions. This technique reduces the need for binders in the carbon, which also allows for more active material, resulting in corresponding improvements in power and energy density.","Ionic liquids hold promise in that they allow for the rapid transport of Li from the anode to the cathode and they have a significantly larger voltage window than aqueous systems. The larger voltage window provides a linear increase in the power density for a giving anode and cathode pairing. Also, if the voltage window is larger than the anode\/cathode window, it prevents the formation of the SEI layer on both the anode and cathode, which decreases the amount of non-active Li.","With reference now to , an exemplary methodology is illustrated and described. While the methodology is described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence, it is to be understood that the methodology is not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance, some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition, an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore, in some instances, not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.","Referring now to  a methodology  that facilitates configuring a solar panel is illustrated. The methodology  begins at , and at  a first group of photovoltaic modules is created that comprises a first plurality of microsystem enabled photovoltaic modules arranged in series. At , a second group of photovoltaic modules is created that comprises a second plurality of microsystem enabled photovoltaic modules arranged in series. At , the first group of photovoltaic modules and the second group of photovoltaic modules are arranged electrically in parallel with one another. The methodology  completes at .","It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto-appended claims. Additionally, it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
