---
title: Automatic management control of external resources
abstract: Presented are systems and methods for receiving one or more generic commands when coupled to a heterogeneous conference call, the conference call including a plurality of participants coupled to the conference call using one or more mobile devices. The system automatically translates, by a control module the one or more generic commands into one or more native commands recognized by a first conference hosting system, of the plurality of conference hosting systems. The system automatically sends the one or more native commands to the first conference hosting system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08611877&OS=08611877&RS=08611877
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08611877
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20111031
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["Example embodiments relate to conference call systems and methods, and in particular to a method for automating user control during a conference call.","In general, there are three common conference hosting systems for executing conferencing calls: using a mobile device as the conference bridge (mobile bridge), using an intermediate conference server (for example a private branch exchange (PBX)), and using a conference bridge. The mobile bridge typically provides the fewest number of participants and number of moderator controls. The intermediate conference server generally can host larger conferences and provide an increased number of moderator controls. Additionally, the conference bridge generally can host an even larger number of participants and generally provides the moderator with the most controls.","Currently, the methods of generating conference calls are generally limited to a single conference hosting system. For example, a conference call is hosted either by only the intermediate conference server or only the conference bridge.","Moreover, each conference hosting system can have separate command formats making interoperability difficult if commands are to be passed between devices coupled to the conference via different types of conference hosting systems. Additionally, each type of conference hosting system can have different controls available to conferences participants and different user interfaces for accessing those controls.","The example embodiments provided below describe a device control system and method where a user control graphical user interface (GUI) operating on a device allows a user to perform actions relating to a conference call (conference). The device control system can operate in a conference utilizing a single type of conference resource, for example a homogenous conference. Additionally, the device control system can operate in a conference using different types of conference hosting systems coupled through one or more servers, for example, a heterogeneous conference. A heterogeneous conference is a conference call (audio, video, or a combination thereof) that includes a plurality of different conference hosting systems that are coupled together through a server. A conference hosting system can be a mobile bridge, an intermediate conference server (for example a private branch exchange (PBX)), a conference bridge, or a media server. The device control system sends generic commands to the server, wherein the server is configured to translate those commands into formats recognizable by one or more conference hosting systems participating in the conference.","In additional embodiments, the generic commands are translated on the mobile device into formats recognizable by a conference hosting system participating in the conference. The mobile device can then send the commands to the server, which then routes the commands to the appropriate conference hosting systems. Or in some embodiments, the mobile device sends the command directly to the conference hosting system.","Reference is now made to , which shows, in block diagram form, an example system utilizing a device control system for managing and automating user controls in conferences (homogenous and heterogeneous), generally designated , for the control and management of communications. System  includes an enterprise network , which in some embodiments includes a local area network (LAN). In some embodiments, enterprise network  can be an enterprise or business system. In some embodiments, enterprise network  includes more than one network and is located in multiple geographic areas.","Enterprise network  can be coupled, often through a firewall , to a wide area network (WAN) , such as the Internet. Enterprise network  can also be coupled to a public switched telephone network (PSTN)  via direct inward dialing (DID) trunks or primary rate interface (PRI) trunks.","Enterprise network  can also communicate with a public land mobile network (PLMN) , which is also referred to as a wireless wide area network (WWAN) or, in some cases, a cellular network. The connection with PLMN  is via a relay , as known in the art.","In some embodiments, enterprise network  provides a wireless local area network (WLAN), not shown, featuring wireless access points, such as wireless access point . In some embodiments, other WLANs can exist outside enterprise network . For example, a WLAN coupled to WAN  can be accessed via wireless access point . WAN  is coupled to one or more mobile devices, for example mobile device . Additionally, WAN  can be coupled to one or more desktop or laptop computers  (one shown).","System  can include a number of enterprise-associated mobile devices, for example, mobile devices , , , and . Mobile devices , , , and  can include devices equipped for cellular communication through PLMN , mobile devices equipped for Wi-Fi communications over one of the WLANs via wireless access points or , or dual-mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. Wireless access points or can be configured to WLANs that operate in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.","Mobile devices , , , and  can be, for example, cellular phones, smartphones, tablets, netbooks, and a PDA (personal digital assistant) enabled for wireless communication. Moreover, mobile devices , , , and  can communicate with other components using voice communications or data communications (such as accessing content from a website). Mobile devices , , , and  include devices equipped for cellular communication through PLMN , devices equipped for Wi-Fi communications via wireless access points or , or dual-mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. Mobile devices , , , and  are described in detail below in .","Mobile devices , , , and  also include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with PLMN , and\/or one of the WLANs via wireless access points or . In various embodiments, PLMN  and mobile devices , , , and  are configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols, including GSM, GPRS, CDMA, EDGE, UMTS, EvDO, HSPA, 3GPP, or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that mobile devices , , , and  can roam within PLMN  and across PLMNs, in known manner, as their user moves. In some instances, dual-mode mobile devices , , , and  and\/or enterprise network  are configured to facilitate roaming between PLMN  and a wireless access points or , and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions (such as voice calls) from a connection with the cellular interface of dual-mode device (i.e., , , , and ) to a WLAN interface of the dual-mode device, and vice versa.","Each mobile device possesses the ability to act as a mobile bridge. For example, mobile device  can act as a mobile bridge with mobile device . Generally, a conference call hosted using a mobile bridge will have a maximum of 3 participants. User controls at the mobile-bridge level include adding additional participants, muting the device user, un-muting the device user, and exiting the conference call. Additionally, the moderator can have additional controls not available to other conference users. For example, muting a particular conference participant. The particular user and moderator controls associated with the mobile bridge can vary depending on the type of mobile bridge used. Additionally, the particular user and moderator controls available can vary depending on whether the conference is an audio conference, a video conference, or a combination thereof.","Enterprise network  typically includes a number of networked servers, computers, and other devices. For example, enterprise network  can connect one or more desktop or laptop computers  (one shown). The connection can be wired or wireless in some embodiments. Enterprise network  can also connect to one or more digital telephone phones .","Relay  serves to route messages received over PLMN  from mobile device  to corresponding enterprise network . Relay  also pushes messages from enterprise network  to mobile device  via PLMN .","Enterprise network  also includes an enterprise server . Together with relay , enterprise server  functions to redirect or relay incoming e-mail messages addressed to a user's e-mail address through enterprise network  to mobile device  and to relay incoming e-mail messages composed and sent via mobile device  out to the intended recipients within WAN  or elsewhere. Enterprise server  and relay  together facilitate a \u201cpush\u201d e-mail service for mobile device , enabling the user to send and receive e-mail messages using mobile device  as though the user were coupled to an e-mail client within enterprise network  using the user's enterprise-related e-mail address, for example on computer .","As is typical in many enterprises, enterprise network  includes a Private Branch eXchange (although in various embodiments the PBX can be a standard PBX or an IP-PBX, for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both)  having a connection with PSTN  for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. PBX  is coupled to PSTN  via DID trunks or PRI trunks, for example. PBX  can use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit-switched connections through PSTN  and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments, PBX  can be coupled to one or more conventional analog telephones . PBX  is also coupled to enterprise network  and, through it, to telephone terminal devices, such as digital telephone sets , softphones operating on computers , etc. Within the enterprise, each individual can have an associated extension number, sometimes referred to as a PNP (private numbering plan), or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from PBX  to PSTN  or incoming from PSTN  to PBX  are typically circuit-switched calls. Within the enterprise, for example, between PBX  and terminal devices, voice calls are often packet-switched calls, for example Voice-over-LP (VoIP) calls.","PBX  possesses an intermediate conferencing server capability, and generally can host a conference call with a predetermined maximum number of participants, for example 3 to 7 participants. PBX  is configured to allow the moderator to possess one or more moderator controls. For example, typical user controls at the intermediate conference server level include joining a conference call, muting the user, recording the conference call, application sharing, and un-muting the user. Additionally, the moderator can have additional controls not available to the conference participants. For example, muting a participant, un-muting a participant, and dropping one or more participants. The particular user and moderator controls associated with the intermediate conference server can vary depending on the type intermediate conference server used. Additionally, the particular user and moderator controls available can vary depending on whether the conference is an audio conference, a video conference, or a combination thereof.","System  includes one or more conference bridges . Conference bridge  can be part of enterprise network . Additionally, in some embodiments, conference bridge  can be accessed via WAN  or PTSN .","Conference bridge  generally is configured to host conference calls with a maximum number of participants numbering in the 100 s or more (for example, 1000). Conference bridge  is configured such that the user possesses a plurality of controls. Conference bridge  user controls can include joining a conference call, muting the user, exiting the conference call, creating side conferences, application sharing, etc. Additionally, the moderator can have additional controls that are not available to other participants of the conference. For example, muting one or more participants, speaking priority (i.e. when moderator speaks all participants are muted), dropping one or more participants, recording the transcript of the conference call, etc. Conferences hosted using conference bridge  typically have a larger maximum number of participants and a larger number of moderator controls. The particular user and moderator controls associated with the conference bridge can vary depending on the type conference bridge used. Additionally, the particular user and moderator controls available can vary depending on whether the conference is an audio conference, a video conference, or a combination thereof.","Enterprise network  can further include a Service Management Platform (SMP)  for performing some aspects of messaging or session control, like call control and advanced call processing features. Service Management Platform (SMP) can have one or more processors and at least one memory for storing program instructions. The processor(s) can be a single or multiple microprocessors, field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), or digital signal processors (DSPs) capable of executing particular sets of instructions. Computer-readable instructions can be stored on a tangible non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as a flexible disk, a hard disk, a CD-ROM (compact disk-read only memory), and MO (magneto-optical), a DVD-ROM (digital versatile disk-read only memory), a DVD RAM (digital versatile disk-random access memory), or a semiconductor memory. Alternatively, the methods can be implemented in hardware components or combinations of hardware and software such as, for example, ASICs, special purpose computers, or general purpose computers. SMP  is configured to connect different conference systems to create a heterogeneous conference, for example, a single teleconference, where participants can be joined to the conference via a mobile bridge and an intermediate conference server.","Device control system  can include one or more processors (not shown), a memory (not shown), and a data interface (not shown). The processor(s) can be a single or multiple microprocessors, field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), or digital signal processors (DSPs) capable of executing particular sets of instructions. Computer-readable instructions can be stored on a tangible non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as a flexible disk, a hard disk, a CD-ROM (compact disk-read only memory), and MO (magneto-optical), a DVD-ROM (digital versatile disk-read only memory), a DVD RAM (digital versatile disk-random access memory), or a semiconductor memory. Alternatively, the methods can be implemented in hardware components or combinations of hardware and software such as, for example, ASICs, special purpose computers, or general purpose computers. Device control system  can be implemented on a mobile device, a single computer, distributed across a plurality of computers, or some combination thereof.","Reference is now made to  which illustrates in detail mobile device  in which example embodiments can be applied. Note that while  is described in reference to mobile device , it also applies to mobile devices , , and . Mobile device  is a two-way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities, and the capability to communicate with other computer systems, for example, via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by mobile device , in various embodiments mobile device  can be a handheld device, a multiple-mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication, a smartphone, a mobile telephone, a tablet, or a PDA (personal digital assistant) enabled for wireless communication.","Mobile device  includes a rigid case (not shown) housing the components of mobile device . The internal components of mobile device  can, for example, be constructed on a printed circuit board (PCB). The description of mobile device  herein mentions a number of specific components and subsystems. Although these components and subsystems can be realized as discrete elements, the functions of the components and subsystems can also be realized by integrating, combining, or packaging one or more elements in any suitable fashion.","Mobile device  includes a controller comprising at least one processor  (such as a microprocessor), which controls the overall operation of mobile device . Processor  interacts with device subsystems such as a communication systems  for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network (for example WAN  and\/or PLMN ) to perform communication functions. Processor  interacts with additional device subsystems including a display  such as a liquid crystal display (LCD) screen or any other appropriate display, input devices  such as a keyboard and control buttons, persistent memory , random access memory (RAM) , read only memory (ROM) , auxiliary input\/output (I\/O) subsystems , data port  such as a conventional serial data port or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) data port, speaker , microphone , short-range communication subsystem  (which can employ any appropriate wireless (for example, RF), optical, or other short range communications technology), and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in  perform communication-related functions, whereas other subsystems can provide \u201cresident\u201d or on-device functions.","Display  can be realized as a touch-screen display in some embodiments. The touch-screen display can be constructed using a touch-sensitive input surface coupled to an electronic controller and which overlays the visible element of display . The touch-sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch-sensitive input device and processor  interacts with the touch-sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.","Communication systems  includes one or more communication systems for communicating with wireless WAN  and wireless access points and within the wireless network. The particular design of communication systems  depends on the wireless network in which mobile device  is intended to operate. Mobile device  can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.","Processor  operates under stored program control and executes software modules  stored in memory such as persistent memory  or ROM . Processor  can execute code means or instructions. ROM  can contain data, program instructions or both. Persistent memory  can contain data, program instructions, or both. In some embodiments, persistent memory  is rewritable under control of processor , and can be realized using any appropriate persistent memory technology, including EEPROM, EAROM, FLASH, and the like. As illustrated in , software modules  can include operating system software . Additionally, software modules  can include software applications .","In some embodiments, persistent memory  stores user-profile information, including, one or more conference dial-in telephone numbers. Persistent memory  can additionally store identifiers related to particular conferences. Persistent memory  can also store information relating to various people, for example, name of a user, a user's identifier (user name, email address, or any other identifier), place of employment, work phone number, home address, etc. Persistent memory can additionally store command translation programs. A command translation program is able to convert a generic command into a command (native command) recognized by different types of conference hosting systems. Persistent memory  can also store a conference map. In some embodiments, persistent memory  also stores a conference map. A conference map includes information pertaining to how the conference participants are joined to a particular conference. For example, a conference map would indicate that participant A is joined to the conference via a PBX and participant B is joined to the conference via a conference bridge.","Software modules , for example, device control system , or parts thereof can be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as RAM . RAM  is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. In some embodiments, different assignment of functions to the types of memory could also be used.","Software applications  can further include a range of applications, including, for example, an application related to a device control system, an e-mail messaging application, address book, calendar application, notepad application, Internet browser application, voice communication (i.e., telephony) application, mapping application, or a media player application, or any combination thereof. Each of software applications  can include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements (for example, text fields, input fields, icons, etc.) in the user interface (i.e., display ) according to the application.","In some embodiments, auxiliary input\/output (I\/O) subsystems  comprise an external communication link or interface, for example, an Ethernet connection. In some embodiments, auxiliary I\/O subsystems  can further comprise one or more input devices, including a pointing or navigational tool such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel, or one or more output devices, including a mechanical transducer such as a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on mobile device  (for example, receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call), or for other purposes such as haptic feedback (touch feedback).","In some embodiments, mobile device  also includes one or more removable memory modules  (typically comprising FLASH memory) and one or more memory module interfaces . Among possible functions of removable memory module  is to store information to augment interoperability between device control system  and different types of conference hosting systems. For example, memory modules  can contain one or more command translation programs. Another possible function of removable memory module  is to store information used to identify or authenticate a user or the user's account to wireless network (for example WAN  and\/or PLMN ). For example, in conjunction with certain types of wireless networks, including GSM and successor networks, removable memory module  is referred to as a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM. Memory module  is inserted in or coupled to memory module interface  of mobile device  in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network.","Mobile device  stores data  in persistent memory . In various embodiments, data  includes service data comprising information required by mobile device  to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network (for example WAN  and\/or PLMN ). Data  can also include, for example, scheduling and connection information for connecting to a scheduled call. Data  can include device control system data used by mobile device  for various tasks in both homogenous and heterogeneous conferences. For example, to add participants in a conference call, to provide moderator control over a conference call to mobile device  when mobile device  acts as a moderator device, to provide one or more controls to a user of mobile device  when participating in a conference call, etc.","Mobile device  also includes a battery  which furnishes energy for operating mobile device . Battery  can be coupled to the electrical circuitry of mobile device  through a battery interface , which can manage such functions as charging battery  from an external power source (not shown) and the distribution of energy to various loads within or coupled to mobile device . Short-range communication subsystem  is an additional optional component which provides for communication between mobile device  and different systems or devices, which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example, short-range communication subsystem  can include an infrared device and associated circuits and components, or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a BLUETOOTH communication module to provide for communication with similarly-enabled systems and devices.","A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations, including data and possibly voice communication applications can be installed on mobile device  during or after manufacture. Additional applications and\/or upgrades to operating system software  or software applications  can also be loaded onto mobile device  through the wireless network (for example WAN  and\/or PLMN ), auxiliary I\/O subsystem , data port , short-range communication subsystem , or other suitable subsystem such as . The downloaded programs or code modules can be permanently installed, for example, written into the program memory (for example persistent memory ), or written into and executed from RAM  for execution by processor  at runtime.","Mobile device  can provide three principal modes of communication: a data communication mode, a voice communication mode, and a video communication mode. In the data communication mode, a received data signal such as a text message, an e-mail message, Web page download, or an image file are processed by communication systems  and input to processor  for further processing. For example, a downloaded Web page can be further processed by a browser application, or an e-mail message can be processed by an e-mail message messaging application and output to display . A user of mobile device  can also compose data items, such as e-mail messages, for example, using the input devices in conjunction with display . These composed items can be transmitted through communication systems  over the wireless network (for example WAN  and\/or PLMN ). In the voice communication mode, mobile device  provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. In the video communication mode, mobile device  provides video telephony functions and operates as a video teleconference term. In the video communication mode, mobile device  utilizes one or more cameras (not shown) to capture video of video teleconference. Additionally, in some embodiments, mobile device  utilizes the one or more cameras to capture video. The video can be stored as one or more video data files in persistent memory , RAM , memory module , or any other data storage medium.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3C"],"b":["130","300","165","300","165","310","127","300","300","320","132","400","300","300","310","320"]},"Server  is configured to communicate with participant devices to ensure control interoperability between and among the different conference hosting systems. After a participant device receives a control from the user, device control system provides an associated one or more generic commands to server , using for example, application programming interface (API) calls, BOSS, dual tone multi-frequency (DTMF) digits, or other protocols. Server  is configured to receive the generic commands from one or more mobile devices participating in the conference and translate them to the native commands recognized by one or more conference hosting systems. The native commands could be expressed for example, as CLI commands, text commands to a port, XML-encoded commands or requests to a web service like SOAP, etc. In some embodiments, the translation into native commands occurs on the participant device.","Referring back to , collectively SMP , conference bridge , and PBX  is referred to as the enterprise communications platform, generally designated . It will be appreciated that enterprise communications platform  and, in particular, SMP , is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with PBX , conference bridge  and DID\/PRI trunks. Although SMP  can be implemented on a stand-alone server, it will be appreciated that it can be implemented into an existing control agent\/server as a logical software component.","Mobile device  has a device control system  and is in communication with enterprise network . In some example embodiments, device control system  also operates on mobile devices , , and , computers  and , digital phone , or any variation thereof. In some embodiments, device control system  is in communication with and operates as part of a conference call program installed on mobile devices , , , and , and other servers on enterprise network , for example, SMP . Additionally, in some embodiments, device control system  is integral to the conference call program.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","410","420","430","440"]},"Interface module  displays the user controls and enables selection of controls available to the user of the mobile device.  illustrates an example user controls graphical user interface (GUI)  generated by interface module , displaying controls  available on a user device. Controls  can include one or more controls, for example add participant, mute\/unmute, priority mute, join a participant, share, side conference, and exit. The above listing of controls is not inclusive, and can include other controls not listed. Additionally, the particular user controls available can vary depending on whether the conference is an audio conference, a video conference, or a combination thereof.","The add participant control allows the user to add an additional participant. The add participant control acquires a list of potential participants from a contact list associated with the user. The contact list can be stored in data storage module . User controls GUI  can display the potential list of participants to the user. In a heterogeneous conference, after the user designates which participant is to be added, mobile device  communicates with a server (for example, SMP ) to add the selected participant via one of the conference hosting systems included in the heterogeneous conference. The method of adding the additional participant is discussed below with reference to . The mute control mutes the user of the mobile device with respect to the rest of the conference. The priority mute control mutes all the participants when the user speaks. The join control allows the user to join one or more other conferences as a participant of those conferences. The share control causes device control system to automatically launch a shared application (for example, a presentation) among the participating mobile devices without each conference participant having to individually execute the application. The side conference command allows the user to enter into a separate conference with one or more participants of the existing conference. The exit conference control allows the user to leave the conference. The above listing of controls is not inclusive, and can include other controls not listed.","In this embodiment, controls  also displays one or more moderator controls  which are unavailable to the user. For example in this embodiment priority mute is unavailable to the user because the user is not the moderator, and is grayed out. In some embodiments not shown, controls  only displays controls that are available to the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["500","410","510","510"]},"Referring back to , after a particular control is selected, device control system  automatically generates an associated generic command via control module . In some embodiments, the selection of a control can cause device control system  to automatically generate a plurality of generic commands. Additionally, in some embodiments, device control system can automatically generate one or more generic commands independent of the user's selection of controls. For example, device control system can be configured to automatically attempt to join additional participants after the first attempt fails.","Control module  is configured to track what user controls are available to the user of the mobile device. After a control is asserted in relation to a participant coupled to the conference via a particular conference hosting system, control module  communicates with a server (for example, server ) via communication module  to execute the selected control. For example, if the moderator exercises a mute control over a participant, control module  would transmit this control to the server (in the form of a generic command), which would then re-transmit the mute control to the particular conference hosting system (in the form of a native command) which then mutes the participant.","In some embodiments control module  converts a received control from a mobile device participating in the conference into a generic command (or in some cases a plurality of generic commands). Additionally, the generic command can be automatically generated by the device control system (for example, automatic redial), using for example, API calls, BOSS, DTMF digits, or other protocols. The listing of controls is not inclusive, and can include other controls not listed. The control module  is configured to send the generic command to a server that translates the generic commands into one or more native commands recognized by one or more conference hosting systems. The server is configured to communicate with participant devices and conference hosting systems","In some embodiments, control module  translates the generic commands into one or more native commands recognized by one or more conference hosting systems. In this embodiment, the translation into native commands occurs on the participant device. The native commands could be expressed for example, as CLI commands, text commands to a port, XML-encoded commands or requests to a web service like SOAP, etc. Control module  identifies the conference hosting system to receive the command using a conference map stored in data storage module . Control module  then translates the generic commands into one or more native commands using one or more command translation programs stored in data storage module .","In a heterogeneous conference, the format of the controls can be different depending on how the participant is coupled to the conference. For example, referring to , a mute control to be exercised over participant C is formatted such that it is recognized by intermediate conference server . Whereas, the same mute control, sent to participant L coupled to the heterogeneous conference via conference bridge , can require a different format for conference bridge  to recognize the control. In some embodiments, server  receives generic commands from the user device and automatically formats them to conform with the native commands of the conference hosting systems coupled to the heterogeneous conference (for example via control module ). In some embodiments, device control system  places the controls in the appropriate format before sending them to the server, which then relays the controls to the appropriate conference hosting system. Additionally, in some embodiments the mobile device directly sends the properly formatted controls (via control module ) to the conference hosting systems that make up the heterogeneous conference. Additionally, in some embodiments, device control system can format the commands on the mobile device and send generic commands to the server for formatting commands. For example, the mobile device can be configured to format commands that are common, or require minimal processing, etc., and otherwise send generic commands to the server for proper formatting. Control module  can be coupled to interface module , communication module , and data storage module .","Communication module  is configured to transmit generic commands, via enterprise network , PLMN , WAN , or some combination thereof, to server  (for example, SMP ). Additionally, in some embodiments communication module  directly sends native commands to the conference hosting systems which make up the heterogeneous conference. In some embodiments, communication module  can store a record of the communications sent and received in data storage module . Communication module  can be coupled to interface module , control module , and data storage module .","Data storage module  can also include a database, one or more computer files in a directory structure, or any other appropriate data storage mechanism such as a memory. Data storage module  can store one or more generic commands recognizable by device control system . Data storage module  can also store one or more conference maps, and one or more command translation programs. A conference map includes information pertaining to how the conference participants are joined to a particular conference. A command translation program can be used by device control system  to translate a generic command into a native command of one or more types of conference hosting systems. Additionally, in some embodiments, data storage module  stores user profile information, including, one or more conference dial in telephone numbers. Data storage module  can also store identifiers associated with particular conferences. Data storage module  also stores information relating to various people, for example, name, place of employment, work phone number, home address, etc. In some example embodiments, data storage module  is distributed across a one or more network servers. Data storage module  can communicate with interface module , control module , and communication module .","Each of modules , , , and  can be software programs stored in a RAM, a ROM, a PROM, a FPROM, or other dynamic storage devices, or persistent memory for storing information and instructions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},"In step , a device control system receives a generic command (for example, API calls, BOSS, DTMF digits, or other protocols) from a mobile device participating in the conference. The generic command can be generated in response to an input control by the user of the mobile device. Additionally, the generic command can be automatically generated by the device control system (for example, automatic redial). The control associated with the generic command can be, for example, add participant, mute\/unmute, priority mute, join a participant, share, side conference, and exit. Additionally, the particular user and moderator controls available can vary depending on whether the conference is an audio conference, a video conference, or a combination thereof. The listing of controls is not inclusive, and can include other controls not listed.","In step , the device control system automatically identifies which of the one or more conference hosting systems, and in particular their associated mobile devices, are to receive the command. The device control system references a conference map stored in memory to identify one or more destinations for the command corresponding to the appropriate conference hosting system. For example, if participant A provides a command to create a side conference between participant A and participant B, the device control system references the conference map to identify how participant B is coupled to the conference. For example, participant B could be coupled via a PBX that operates using a particular computer language. In some embodiments, a plurality of conference hosting systems are identified as destinations for the command. For example, if a moderator were to select priority mute, each conference hosting system would have to receive and execute the command.","In step , the device control system automatically determines whether the generic command is recognizable to the identified one or more conference hosting systems. For example, the destination conference hosting system can be configured to recognize generic commands. If the device control system determines that the generic command is recognizable to the one or more identified conference hosting systems, it sends the command (step ), otherwise the device control system proceeds to step .","In step , the device control system automatically retrieves one or more command translation programs. The command translation programs can be used to convert the generic command into one or more native commands of the one or more conference hosting systems. The native commands can be expressed as, for example, CLI commands, text commands to a port, XML-encoded commands, or requests to a web service like SOAP, etc. The device control system references an associated memory to identify the correct command translation programs to convert the generic commands to the native commands of the conference hosting system.","In some embodiments not shown, if the appropriate command translation program is not found in the associated memory, the device control system is configured to access resources located on a server to download the appropriate command translation program. Additionally, device control system can be configured to forward the command in a generic format to a server and the server can convert the generic command into the native command of the conference hosting system and send the command to the conference hosting system. This is further explained in  below.","In step , the device control system translates the generic command into one or more native commands recognized by the one or more conference hosting systems. The device control system translates the generic commands using one or more command translation programs that translate the generic command into the one or more native commands recognized by the one or more conference hosting systems.","Additionally, in cases where the converted command travels between many intermediate systems that do not recognize the native command, the device control system can encapsulate the native command to ensure that it reaches the appropriate one or more conference-hosting systems. For example, the device control system can encapsulate the native command in one or more layers where each layer is correctly formatted to be recognizable to the intermediate systems between the mobile device and the command's destination. As the encapsulated command is routed through the intermediate systems, each intermediate system can be configured to remove the layer associated with it such that the encapsulated command is in a form recognizable by the receiving system or device.","In step , the device control system sends the command. The command can be sent to a server (for example, SMP ) which then distributes the command to the identified one or more conference hosting systems (for example, PBX , conference bridge , etc.). The identified one or more conference hosting systems can, for example, transmit the command to one or more associated mobile devices, automatically execute the command, or some combination thereof.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"165"},"In step , the server system receives a generic command (for example, API calls, BOSS, DTMF digits, or other protocols) from a mobile device participating in the conference. The generic command can be generated in response to an input control by the user of the mobile device. Additionally, the generic command can automatically be generated by the device control system (for example, automatic redial). The control associated with the generic command can be, for example, add participant, mute\/unmute, priority mute, join a participant, share, side conference, and exit. Additionally, the particular user and moderator controls available can vary depending on whether the conference is an audio conference, a video conference, or a combination thereof. The listing of controls is not inclusive, and can include other controls not listed.","In step , device control system automatically identifies which of the one or more conference hosting systems are to receive the command. Device control system references a conference map stored in an associated memory to identify the destination for the command. For example, if participant A provides a command to create a side conference between participant A and participant B, the device control system references the conference map to identify how participant B is coupled to the conference. For example, participant B could be coupled via a PBX that operates using a particular computer language. In some embodiments, a plurality of conference hosting systems are identified as destinations for the command. For example, if the generic command corresponded to a priority mute, each conference hosting system would have to receive and execute the command.","In step , the device control system automatically determines whether the generic command is recognizable to the identified one or more conference hosting systems. For example, the destination conference hosting system can be configured to recognize generic commands. If the device control system deter mines that the generic command is recognizable to the one or more conference hosting systems, it sends the command (step ); otherwise the device control system proceeds to step .","In step , the device control system automatically retrieves one or more command translation programs. The command translation programs can be used to convert the generic command into one or more native commands of the one or more conference hosting systems. The native commands can be expressed as, for example, CLI commands, text commands to a port, XML-encoded commands, or requests to a web service like SOAP, etc. The device control system references an associated memory to identify the correct command translation programs to convert the generic commands to native commands of the conference hosting system.","In some embodiments not shown, if the appropriate command translation program is not found in the associated memory, the device control system is configured to access resources located on a web server to download the appropriate command translation program.","In step , the device control system converts the command into one or more native commands recognized by the identified conference hosting system. The device control system translates the generic commands using one or more command translation programs that translate the generic command into the one or more native commands recognized by the one or more conference hosting systems.","Additionally, in cases where the one or more native command travel between many intermediate systems that do not recognize the one or more native commands, the device control system can encapsulate the one or more native commands to ensure that they reach the appropriate one or more conference hosting systems. For example, the device control system can encapsulate the one or more native commands in one or more layers where each layer is correctly formatted to be recognizable to the intermediate systems between the mobile device and the command's destination. As the encapsulated command is routed through the intermediate systems, each intermediate system can be configured to remove the layer associated with it such that the encapsulated command is in a form recognizable by the receiving system.","In step , the device control system sends the one or more native commands to the one or more conference hosting systems. The receiving one or more conference hosting systems can for example, transmit the one or more commands to one or more associated mobile devices, automatically execute the command, or some combination thereof.","Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore, the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.","Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system, mobile device architecture, server architecture, or computer programming language."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings showing example embodiments of the present application, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
