---
title: Method and system for managing a virtual actionable conversation
abstract: A social activity stream application for managing virtual actionable conversations allows participants in a conversation to request actions to be performed in various external systems. A request to perform an action in an external system is received from a conversation participant, and sent to the external system, in which the requested action may then be performed. In this manner, conversation participants may use a single application to monitor and request actions in multiple external systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751590&OS=08751590&RS=08751590
owner: Neudesic, LLC
number: 08751590
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110816
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention relates to methods and systems for managing virtual actionable conversations related to events and\/or activities that occur within external systems. The invention further relates to methods and systems for causing actions within the external systems based on action requests that occur during the conversations.","Enterprise software to manage workflow within a business enterprise is generally well-known in the art. More recently, social networking has become a popular way for people to communicate and keep in touch with one another outside of a business environment. But many of the features and advantages of social networking have not yet been efficiently integrated into a business environment.","For example, social networking services are online, internet-based services in which users can create a profile and link to other users, thereby creating a social network. Through the social networking service, users are able to quickly share information with others in their network. Users are able to have virtual conversations using the social networking service, in which a user posts a comment, and others within the network respond to the comment. In this manner, the exchange of information between members of a social network is extremely convenient.","Enterprise software, on the other hand, is generally used to manage workflow within a business enterprise for facilitating collaboration between employees and for coordinating business processes. Using such systems, employees are able to share documents, access information, review documents, approve projects, manage and track tasks, etc. Such systems are typically accessed through a user interface, such as a web-based application accessed through a browser.","But there is no system known to the inventors of the present invention in which the conversation management associated with social networking is efficiently integrated with the business project management features associated with enterprise software, such that a business system communicating with the enterprise software performs actions based on requests initiated from participants via a virtual conversation taking place outside of the business system. We call this type of conversation a virtual actionable conversation, since the conversation takes place over a network, and allows participants to request actions to be performed in a system external to the conversation. It is desirable to merge the features of social networking with the features of enterprise software to facilitate such virtual actionable conversations.","A social activity stream application for managing virtual actionable conversations allows users, or subscribers, of the application to request actions to be performed in various external systems without having to access each of the external systems separately. A request to perform an action in an external system is received from a conversation participant, and sent to the external system, in which the requested action may then be performed. In this manner, conversation participants may use a single application to monitor and request actions in multiple external systems.","In accordance with a first aspect of the present inventions, a method of managing a virtual actionable conversation between a plurality of subscribers is provided. The method includes steps of: receiving, via a computer network, notice of an occurrence of an event in an external system; determining the event meets a threshold requirement; creating an electronic activity record corresponding to the event; identifying subscribers associated with the event, the subscribers comprising a first subscriber; sending, to the subscribers over the computer network, information corresponding to the activity record; and receiving, from the first subscriber over the computer network, in response to the information sent, a request for a data feed. The method may further include receiving, from a second subscriber, over the computer network, a request for the data feed.","In accordance with the first aspect of the present inventions, the method also includes sending the data feed over the computer network to the first subscriber, the data feed comprising 1) the information corresponding to the activity record and 2) an action link for requesting an action to be performed in the external system. The action link may be related to the event.","In accordance with the first aspect of the present inventions, the method further includes: receiving, over the computer network, an indication that the action link was activated by the first subscriber; sending, in response to the indication, a request to the external system to perform the action; receiving data from the external system confirming the action was performed in response to the request sent to the external system; and updating the activity record to reflect the action was performed. The method may also include sending, via the computer network, an updated data feed to the first subscriber, the updated data feed including information corresponding to the updated activity record.","In accordance with a second aspect of the present inventions, a system for managing a virtual actionable conversation between a plurality of subscribers is provided. The system includes: a server, a computer network, and a client computer in electronic communication with the server through the computer network. The server is programmed to perform the steps recited above. The client computer may be a mobile device.","In accordance with a third aspect of the present inventions, a method of managing a virtual actionable conversation between a plurality of subscribers is provided. The method includes monitoring, via a computer network, activities occurring in an external system, the activities comprising a first activity. The external system may be at least one of: an enterprise resource planning system; a customer relationship management system; an accounting system; a travel system; an expense reporting system; a timekeeping system; a human resources system; and a workflow management system. The method may further include monitoring activities occurring in a second external system.","In accordance with the third aspect of the present inventions, the method further includes determining the first activity meets a threshold requirement; creating an activity record associated with the first activity; and associating an action link with the activity record, wherein activation of the action link initiates a request for an action to be performed in the external system. The action link may be a link configured to cause at least one of the following actions to be performed in the external system: approve; reject; accept; reassign; share; and complete. The method may also include associating a second action link with the activity record. The method may include determining which one of a plurality of action links to associate with the activity record.","Still further, in accordance with the third aspect of the present inventions, the method includes routing, through the computer network, the activity record and the associated action link to a first subscriber for display. The method may include a step of determining the first subscriber is associated with the first activity. This determination may be based at least in part on input from the first subscriber. The input from the first subscriber may include at least one of: identification of an external system in which the first subscriber is interested; identification of an external system event in which the first subscriber is interested; and an event associated with one or more of the other subscribers.","In accordance with the third aspect of the present inventions, the method further includes determining the first subscriber activated the action link; and routing to the external system, through the computer network, a request for the action to be performed by the external system. The method may include creating a uniquely identifiable data structure associated with the first activity. Routing the request to the external system may thus include attaching the request to the uniquely identifiable data structure.","In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present inventions, a method of using a system for managing a virtual actionable conversation between a plurality of subscribers is provided. The method includes providing subscription parameters to a server to create a subscription to the system; receiving, through a user interface, a data feed tailored to the parameters, the data feed including an action link for causing an action to occur in an external system; activating the action link; and receiving, from the server, an updated data feed reflecting the action was performed by the external system. At least part of the method may include using a mobile device.","The above exemplary methods and systems allow users to request actions to be performed in multiple external systems. In this manner, such methods and systems may increase employee efficiency and productivity because employees are able to monitor activities and events and request actions in several external systems through a single application that is in communication with those external systems.","An Actionable Conversation System (ACS) enables users to act on virtual conversations resulting in the initiation, continuation, or completion of business processes within one or more external systems. These business processes could have been initiated, continued, or completed in each of the one or more external systems separately. Thus, the ACS is a convenient way for a user to interact with several external systems through a single application.","A system  including the ACS  is depicted in . The ACS  is in communication with a plurality of users  (U, U, U. . . U), and a plurality of external systems  (XS, XS, XS. . . XS). It should be well understood that the system  may include any number of users , including only one user. Similarly, the system  may include any number of external systems , including only one external system. The ACS  and the external systems  may be installed on a server  and accessed via a company's network  (shown in ). The users  may be the employees of the company, or other authorized users.","The external systems  may be business enterprises that are used by the company. For example, the external systems  may include accounting systems, expense reporting systems, travel systems, customer relationship management systems, timekeeping systems, enterprise resource planning systems, workflow management systems, human resources systems, or the like.","The ACS  includes a user interface  associated with each user , a routing subsystem , an activity database , and an external system adapter  associated with each external system . A user  accesses the ACS  using a client computer  (shown in ) configured to display the user interface . The client computer  may be a desktop computer or a mobile device, such as a laptop computer, smart phone, PDA, electronic tablet, netbook, mobile internet device, ultra-mobile PC, or the like. One of the advantages of the ACS  is that a user  is able to access all of the external systems  on a mobile device by using the ACS . Thus, even though the external systems  may not be directly accessible via a mobile device, a user is able to monitor each of the external systems  by accessing the ACS  via a mobile device.","The user interface  makes action links available to a user  within a conversation. The ACS  determines which action links are appropriate for the conversation and the user interface  displays those action links to the user . The user interface  is configured such that the user  is able to select\/activate one of the displayed action links. For example, the user  may click on a desired action link using a mouse, stylus, touch screen, or the like. In response to the user's selection\/activation of one of the action links, the user interface  may provide an indication of which action link was selected\/activated. For example, the user interface  may highlight a radio button next to the selected\/activated action link, change the color of the text of the selected\/activated action link, highlight the text of the selected\/activated action link, or the like.","Examples of user interfaces are shown in . The user interface  depicted in  includes a comment  and three options of action links  that the user viewing the user interface  may choose. In particular, the user viewing the user interface  may choose \u201caccept,\u201d \u201creject,\u201d or \u201creassign.\u201d","The user interface  depicted in  includes a comment , two options of action links  that the user viewing the user interface  may choose, and a preview of a document  attached to the conversation. In this example, the user viewing the user interface  may choose either \u201capprove\u201d or \u201creject.\u201d","Referring back to , the routing subsystem  of the ACS  routes actions from either the user interface  or external systems  to the appropriate end point. An end point may be an external system , or a user . For example, if one of the users  initiates an action by selecting one of the action links in the user's corresponding user interface , the routing subsystem  determines which of the external systems  the initiated action corresponds to. The routing subsystem  then routes the action to the appropriate external system .","The activity database  stores all conversations, whether the conversation is actionable or not. Any activity that has occurred or is pending in the ACS  is stored in the database . The activity database  also stores the necessary information needed to route actions between endpoints. For example, in order to determine which of the external systems  an initiated action corresponds to, the routing subsystem  may access information stored in the activity database . The activity database  may also keep track of which user  initiated each action.","The external system adapters  receive and send actions to external systems . The external system adapters  translate data to and from the format required by the external systems . Each of the external systems  communicates with the ACS  through its own external system adapter . In this manner, each of the external system adapters  is customized to communicate with their respective external systems . For example, if one of the external systems  is an accounting system, the external system adapter  corresponding to the accounting system is configured to facilitate communication from the ACS  to the accounting system by translating data from the ACS format to the format required by the accounting system. Similarly, an external system adapter  corresponding to a travel system facilitates communication from the travel system to the ACS  by translating data from the travel system format to the ACS format. More specifically, the external system adapters  facilitate communication between the application programming interface (API) of the ACS  and the APIs of the external systems .","An actionable conversation can be manually initiated by a user  or automatically initiated by the ACS . When an event or activity in one of the external systems  is detected, and the ACS  determines that the event or activity warrants a conversation, the ACS  will call the API to initiate a conversation. The conversation includes supporting information about the source of the event or activity so that the event or activity can be identified in the ACS . Supporting information may include, for example, one or more of the following: the name of the external system in which the event or activity occurred, a record ID number of the event or activity, the type of event or activity, names of users associated with the event or activity (e.g., the name of a user that generated the event or activity), dollar amounts associated with the event or activity, or the like. Communication between the API and the external system  is facilitated by the external system adapters . Thus, the ACS  may automatically initiate a conversation without user intervention, and the conversation may be between a user  and an external system .","An example of a method  of managing a virtual actionable conversation is depicted in . It should be well understood that communications between the external systems  and the ACS  and between the users  and the ACS  occur via the computer network  (see ). A client computer  is in communication with a server  through the computer network , as shown in , and the ACS  and external systems  are installed on the server . In this manner, the server  is programmed to execute the steps of the method  depicted in .","First, in step , one of the external systems  generates an event. For example, the external system  may be an expense reporting system, and the event may be that the expense reporting system generated an expense report. In another example, the external system  may be a travel system, and the event may be that a new travel request has been created by a user of the travel system. In a still further example, the external system  may be a customer relationship management system, and the event may be that a new support request or access request has been created by a user of the customer relationship management system.","The ACS  may actively monitor events occurring in all of the external systems , and\/or may be configured to receive notifications from external systems  as events occur. Thus, when the event is generated in step , the external system adapter  in the ACS  receives notice that the event has occurred (step ). In particular, the external system adapter  that receives the notification is the external system adapter  that corresponds to the external system  that generated the event. Alternatively or additionally, the external system adapter  may detect the event.","After receiving the notice, the ACS  determines whether the event meets a threshold requirement (step ). For example, the ACS  determines whether any of the users  are interested in, or need to be notified of, the event. In another example, if the ACS  determines that the event is actionable (e.g., that the event requires some further action to be performed in the external system ), then the event meets a threshold requirement. In a specific example, if the event is an expense report generated by an expense reporting system, the ACS  may determine that one of the users  is responsible for approving or rejecting the expense report, and therefore, that the generated expense report meets a threshold requirement.","This determination in step  is based at least in part upon subscription parameters provided by each user , also referred to herein as \u201csubscribers.\u201d Each subscriber  to the ACS  inputs subscription parameters to create a subscription to the ACS . For example, subscribers may input the identification of an external system in which the subscriber is interested, identification of an external system event in which the subscriber is interested, an event associated with one or more of the other subscribers, or the like. In a specific example, a user  that is responsible for approving travel requests may subscribe to the feed of the travel system, which is one of the external systems  in communication with the ACS . In another specific example, if user Uis user U's supervisor, then user Umay subscribe to user U's feed in order to monitor events and activities associated with user U. In general, if the characteristics of the event match at least one subscription parameter provided by at least one subscriber , then the event meets a threshold requirement.","If the event does not meet a threshold requirement, then a conversation is not initiated and the process ends at step . For example, if there is no required action associated with the event, or if the person required to perform a required action is not a subscriber to the ACS , then the event may not meet a threshold requirement.","If the event does meet the threshold requirement, then the method continues to step , where the ACS  creates an electronic activity record corresponding to the event. A uniquely identifiable data structure associated with the event may be created and included in the activity record. Each activity record has it's own uniquely identifiable data structure so that each activity record is uniquely identifiable. The uniquely identifiable data structure may also be referred to as a unique key, a globally unique identifier, a correlation identifier, or the like. This uniquely identifiable data structure is later used to submit a requested action back to the external system , as explained in more detail below.","The ACS  then determines, in step , which subscribers  are associated with the event. This determination in step  depends on whether a subscriber's subscription parameters match characteristics of the event. For example, if the event is the creation of a document that needs to be approved, the ACS  would determine that the subscriber required to approve the document is one of the subscribers associated with the event.","Next, in step  the ACS  sends, to the subscribers identified in step , information corresponding to the activity record. In response to this information, one or more of the subscribers  may send a request for a data feed in step . In response to this request from the subscriber , the data feed is sent to the subscriber  for display in step . Thus, the subscriber  receives, through the user interface , a data feed tailored to the subscription parameters that the subscriber  previously provided. For example, a user subscribed to the feed for the external system \u201ctravel\u201d would receive a data feed that includes all of the events that occur within and in response to the \u201ctravel\u201d system. The data feed includes the information corresponding to the activity record and may include at least one action link for requesting an action to be performed in the external system . The action link may be related to the event. The action links may be for requesting actions such as \u201capprove,\u201d \u201creject,\u201d \u201creassign,\u201d \u201creview,\u201d \u201csubmit,\u201d \u201cassign,\u201d \u201ccomplete,\u201d \u201caccept,\u201d \u201cshare,\u201d or the like.","The external systems  determine which actions are available for a particular event. Based on this determination by the external systems , the external system adapters  or the API of the ACS  dynamically determine which action link(s) to associate with the activity record. For example, if the event is that a travel request has been received by a travel system, the external system adapter  or the API associated with the travel system would tell the ACS  that the available actions for this event are \u201capprove,\u201d \u201creject,\u201d and \u201creassign.\u201d Thus, the ACS  is configured to associate \u201capprove,\u201d \u201creject,\u201d and \u201creassign\u201d action links with the travel request.","Then, in step , the subscriber  activates one of the action links presented in the data feed, and the ACS  receives, via the computer network, an indication that the action link was activated by one of the subscribers . The subscribers  may access their data feeds and select\/activate a desired action using their desktop computer or a mobile device. This is significant because directly accessing individual external systems  and initiating desired actions in those external systems  may not be possible through mobile devices. That is, the ACS  makes it possible to initiate actions in external systems  by using a mobile device that, without the ACS , may not be capable of accessing the external systems .","The ACS  then sends a request to the appropriate external system  to perform the action by routing the initiated action through the external system adapters  to the appropriate external system  in step . The request may be attached to the uniquely identifiable data structure that was created and included with the activity record in step .","In step , the requested action is performed by the external system . The ACS  then receives data from the external system  in step , confirming the action was performed in response to the request sent to the external system . Finally, in step , the ACS  updates the activity record and the data feed to reflect that the action was performed. The updated data feed may then be sent, via the computer network , to the subscriber  that initiated the action. The updated data feed may include information corresponding to the updated activity record.","Referring now to , another example of a method  of managing a virtual actionable conversation is depicted. In this embodiment, the data feed is automatically sent to the subscribers  based on the subscription parameters provided by the subscribers . In other words, the subscribers  do not receive information about an event and then request a data feed related to the event, as in steps  and  depicted in .","Similar to the method  described above, it should be well understood that, in the method  depicted in , communications between the external systems  and the ACS  and between the users  and the ACS  occur via the computer network . For example, the ACS  monitors activities and events occurring in the external systems  via the computer network . Alternatively or additionally, the ACS  may receive a notification via the computer network  of an activity or event that has occurred in one of the external systems .","The first step  in the method  depicted in  is that one of the external system adapters  determines (e.g., by monitoring, by receiving notification, or by some other method) that an activity has occurred in one of the external systems . For example, the external system  may be an expense reporting system, and the activity may be that the expense reporting system generated an expense report. In another example, the external system  may be a travel system, and the activity may be that a new travel request has been created by a user of the travel request system. In a still further example, the external system  may be a customer relationship management system, and the activity may be that a new support request or access request has been created by a user of the customer relationship management system.","Next, in step , the ACS  determines whether the activity meets a threshold requirement. For example, the ACS  determines whether any of the users  are interested in, or need to be notified of, the activity. In another example, if the ACS  determines that the event is actionable (e.g., that the event requires some further action to be performed in the external system ), then the event meets a threshold requirement. In a specific example, if the activity is an expense report generated by an expense reporting system, the ACS  may determine that one of the users  is responsible for approving or rejecting the expense report, and therefore, that the generated expense report meets a threshold requirement.","This determination in step  is based at least in part upon the subscription parameters provided by each subscriber . The subscription parameters provided by each subscriber  are discussed in more detail above. In general, if the characteristics of the activity match at least one subscription parameter provided by at least one subscriber , then the activity meets a threshold requirement.","If the activity does not meet a threshold requirement, then a conversation is not initiated and the process ends at step . For example, if there is no required action associated with the activity, or if the person required to perform a required action is not a user  of the ACS , then the activity may not meet a threshold requirement.","If the activity does meet the threshold requirement, then the method continues to step , where the ACS  creates an electronic activity record corresponding to the activity. Similar to the method  previously discussed, a uniquely identifiable data structure associated with the activity may be created and included in the activity record.","In step , the ACS  associates at least one action link with the activity record. The procedure for determining which action link(s) to associate with the activity record is discussed in more detail above with reference to .","Next, in step , the activity record and the associated action link are routed to one or more subscribers . The ACS  determines which of the subscribers  should receive the activity record and associated action link based upon the subscription parameters previously provided by each subscriber . In general, if the characteristics of the activity meet at least one of the subscription parameters provided by a subscriber , then the ACS  determines that the subscriber  should receive the activity record and the associated action link. The activity record and associated action link may be displayed in the subscriber's data feed.","Then, in step , the ACS  determines that one of the subscribers  activated one of the action links presented in the data feed. The subscribers  may access their data feeds and select\/activate a desired action using their desktop computer or a mobile device.","The ACS  then routes the requested action to the appropriate external system  through the corresponding external system adapter  in step . The request may be attached to the uniquely identifiable data structure that was created and included with the activity record in step .","An example of a method  that takes place during a particular example of an actionable conversation is depicted in . First, at step , John Smith wants to get a travel request approved. At step , John Smith accesses the travel system and inputs his travel request into the travel system. The travel system is one of the external systems  in communication with the ACS . Thus, the external system adapter  corresponding to the travel system detects that a new travel request has been entered into the travel system at step . The external system adapter  also determines, at step , that this event is significant to the ACS  (i.e., that the new travel request entered into the travel system meets a threshold requirement). The external system adapter  of the ACS  then creates an activity record at step . The activity record is designated as a travel request for approval and includes a uniquely identifiable data structure. Because the activity record is designated as a travel request for approval, the ACS  dynamically associates the action links of \u201capprove,\u201d \u201creject,\u201d and \u201creassign\u201d with the activity record. Mary Jane is John Smith's manager, and therefore, is subscribed to John Smith's travel request approval feed. Thus, at step , Mary Jane will see this travel request on her data feed and can act on it. Because Mary Jane is presented with the action links and she approves of the request, she activates the \u201capprove\u201d action link in step . Significantly, Mary Jane is able to view her data feed and activate the desired action link via a mobile device. The \u201capprove\u201d action is routed back to the travel system through the corresponding external system adapter  of the ACS  at step . Finally, the original travel request is marked as \u201capproved\u201d in the travel system at step .","Mary Jane could also request actions in several other external systems through the ACS . For example, in addition to approving John Smith's travel request, Mary Jane could also review and approve\/reject a budget report generated by an accounting system that is in communication with the ACS , reassign a task to another employee through a workflow management system that is in communication with the ACS , approve an order for new parts when inventory goes below a certain level through an enterprise resource planning system that is in communication with the ACS , and the like. In this manner, the ACS  is advantageous in that a user is able to communicate with and request actions in several external systems through the ACS  by accessing only the ACS . In other words, the user does not have to access each external system separately.","Although particular embodiments have been shown and described, it should be understood that the above discussion is not intended to limit the scope of these embodiments. Various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the claims. Thus, embodiments are intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents that fall within the scope of the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing and other aspects of embodiments are described in further detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
