---
title: Systems and methods for utilizing and searching social network information
abstract: Methods and systems for indexing, storing, recalling and displaying social network user profiles, event calendar postings and user feed postings are described. A single, discrete set of keywords, can be utilized and assigned to both user profiles and postings and can operate as a method of indexing. The assignment of these keywords may allow users to control the display of calendar and feed content by matching assigned posting keywords to assigned profile keywords via a matching algorithm. Matched event-related postings may also be automatically displayed in a user's calendar. Searches of profiles and postings may also be performed by constructing queries using the same set of discrete keywords attached to profiles and postings. Users may have the ability to control the display of specific profile information and postings via privacy settings, which utilize unique methods of tracking relationship segmentation and social distance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08667009&OS=08667009&RS=08667009
owner: Saambaa LLC
number: 08667009
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120120
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part application of PCT Application No. PCT\/US2010\/042580 filed Jul. 20, 2010, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/227,376 filed Jul. 21, 2009 and Provisional Application No. 61\/348,213 filed May 25, 2010; this application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/452,061 filed Mar. 11, 2011, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.","Conventionally, users of social networking websites connect with other users by posting information about themselves to the network for access by other users. For example, a user may post interests, events, needs, requests, status updates, contact information, and so forth. Users may contact each other and\/or review information about each other through a mutually-accepted bidirectional social connection, or in some cases a unidirectional connection based on privacy settings configured by a user.","Large social networking websites have developed systems for tailoring connections between various users, including event calendars, posting feeds, (a.k.a. \u201cnews feeds\u201d) and search functionality. However, in many cases it is difficult for users who do not share a direct relationship with one another to connect or view accurate information and postings concerning mutual interests or needs. This is primarily related to the way social networks allow users to store and access user profile and posting data. There is a need for improved systems and methods of indexing, storing, recalling and displaying data relating to user profiles and postings, and improved systems and methods to allow users to easily and accurately search or receive information concerning mutual interests or needs.","The invention provides systems and methods for utilizing and searching social network information. Various aspects of the invention described herein may be applied to any of the particular applications set forth below. The invention may be applied as a standalone system or as a component of an integrated software solution searching information or as a component of a social networking site. The invention can be optionally integrated into existing business and social networking processes seamlessly. It shall be understood that different aspects of the invention can be appreciated individually, collectively or in combination with each other.","In one embodiment of the invention, a method of displaying social network information is provided. The method includes steps of creating a central keyword database having a plurality of pre-defined keywords organized into categories and tagging a user profile of a user with at least one keyword from the central keyword database for associating users with keyword descriptors. In addition, the method includes tagging at least one posting with at least one keyword from the central keyword database for associating the posting with keyword descriptors and applying an automatic matching algorithm to find postings that match the user profile and allow those postings to display in an event calendar, news feed or in search results. The matching algorithm may match keywords associated with the posting and keywords associated with the user and whether the posting is displayed in a user's event calendar, news feed or within search results may depend on privacy settings for a particular user's profile.","In one embodiment, a method of displaying social network information customized to interests of a user comprises creating a central keyword database having a plurality of pre-defined keywords organized into categories; tagging a user profile of the user with at least one keyword from the central keyword database for associating users with profile keyword descriptors; tagging an posting within a social network with at least one keyword from the central keyword database for associating postings with posting keyword descriptors; applying a plurality of matching criteria to the user profile and the posting, wherein the plurality of matching criteria comprises privacy settings of user profiles and privacy settings of postings; and displaying to an event calendar or news feed of the user the posting if matched by the plurality of matching criteria to the user profile of the user, wherein the matching criteria provides the user with postings customized to interests of the user.","Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following discussions, it is appreciated that throughout the specification, discussions utilizing terms such as \u201cprocessing,\u201d \u201ccomputing,\u201d \u201ccalculating,\u201d \u201cdetermining,\u201d or the like, may refer in whole or in part to the action and\/or processes of a processor, computer or computing system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulate and\/or transform data represented as physical, such as electronic, quantities within the system's registers and\/or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the system's memories, registers or other such information storage, transmission or display devices. It will also be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the term \u201cusers\u201d referred to herein can be individuals as well as corporations and other legal entities. Furthermore, the processes presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer, processing device, article or other apparatus. An example of a structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition, embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular processor, programming language, machine code, etc. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages, machine codes, etc. may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.","Other goals and advantages of the invention will be further appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and accompanying drawings. While the following description may contain specific details describing particular embodiments of the invention, this should not be construed as limitations to the scope of the invention but rather as an exemplification of preferable embodiments. For each aspect of the invention, many variations are possible as suggested herein that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. A variety of changes and modifications can be made within the scope of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof.","All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.","In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, procedures, components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention. Various modifications to the described embodiments will be apparent to those with skill in the art, and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments. The invention is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments shown and described.","The present invention relates generally to the indexing, storage, recall and presentation of information in a social network, and more particularly to systems and methods for indexing, storage and presentation of user profiles, postings, and scheduled events. As described herein, a posting may be related to an event, general message, jobs, service providers, dates, support groups, student needs, etc., and may contain any type of content, as desired by the user or maintained by the system. A posting may be created by a user, or imported by the system from outside the system (a.k.a. \u201csystem generated\u201d posts.) System generated posts may be generated from information obtained from third party sources or other social networks. For example, system generated posts may be generated from information from a website which sells event tickets, a website which hosts sporting events, or a group buying website.","A system and method for indexing, storing, recalling and displaying social network user profiles and postings is provided. A social network can have a central keyword database, which organizes a finite set of keywords into various categories, which are then used to index user profiles and postings, some of which can be event postings. Postings may also be message postings, job postings, request postings, question postings, statement postings, news postings, etc. These categories may have unique classifications which affect calendar matching, feed matching, and search algorithms. A user of a social network, here referred to as the \u201cviewing user,\u201d can describe themselves in multiple ways through the selection of specific keywords which come from the central keyword database. Such keywords are referred to herein as \u201cprofile keyword tags.\u201d A viewing user may select such profile keyword tags from a keyword database which describes himself\/herself upon first signing up for an account, or at any time while using the system. Users, here referred to as \u201cposting users,\u201d may also post items into the social network (e.g., event postings, job postings, request postings, question postings, statement postings, news postings, etc). These postings which are submitted by posting users, or are system generated, can be tagged by selecting keywords from the same central keyword database. These tags are referred to herein as \u201cposting keyword tags.\u201d","Viewing users can configure a smart-calendar engine so their calendar may be automatically populated with event-related postings using a matching algorithm that, among other things, takes into account event-related posting keyword tags which match the viewing user's profile keyword tags. Viewing users can also configure a smart-feed engine so their news feed automatically populates with postings using a matching algorithm that, among other things, takes into account posting keyword tags which match the profile keyword tags of the viewing user. \u2018Posting users can also configure a syndication engine which will push the user's posting into other distribution channels such as email, text message, Facebook, Twitter, and various instant message clients. Viewing users can perform accurate searches of postings and profiles by constructing search queries in a search engine using keywords from the central keyword database. Users can maintain privacy by segmenting their relationships and controlling the viewing of posts and profile information by both relationship segmentation and social distance. Users beyond one-degree from each other can see the path of relationship by viewing a relationship map. In addition, privacy settings may be based on certain characteristics or profile keyword tags of a user. Thus, a user may control and maintain privacy by limiting their postings or certain aspects of their profiles to be viewable only by users that match certain characteristics or keyword tags. These functions are all described in more detail below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","101","102","104","103","104","104","101","102","101","101"]},"Any user  in the social network may use the news feed, calendar and search functionality of the social network and become the viewing user or become the posting user as the poster of items within the social network. In some embodiments, the viewing user and the posting user may be the same users, for example, for purposes of reviewing a personal posting.","The social network provider  may include functions and capabilities such as a smart-calendar engine , smart-feed engine , search engine , syndication engine , storage  module, interface  module, each further described below, or other functionality. The social network information system (or social network provider)  may be coupled to a server and database  which can store the social network information and run the various engines.","As shown in , a smart-feed engine  is coupled to the social network provider . The smart-feed engine  utilizes profile keyword tags selected for a particular user (e.g., the viewing user ) to control the items displayed within the news feed (or \u201csmart-feed\u201d) of a user such as the viewing user using an algorithmic matching system that, among other things, evaluates different classifications of keywords within postings. Examples of a viewing user may include a user, an association of users, members of an event, students in a class, members of a club and the like. According to some embodiments, the viewing user may be coupled directly via the user device  to the smart-feed engine . According to other embodiments, the smart-feed engine  comprises a module associated with the social network provider .","A smart-calendar engine  is coupled to the soial network provider . The smart-calendar engine  utilizes profile keyword tags selected for a particular user (e.g., the viewing user ) to control event-related items displayed within the calendar of a user such as the viewing user using an algorithmic matching system that, among other things, evaluates different classifications of keywords within event postings. According to some embodiments, the viewing user may be coupled directly via the user device  to the smart-calendar engine . According to other embodiments, the smart-calendar engine  comprises a module associated with the social network provider .","A syndication engine  is coupled to the social network provider . The syndication engine  pushes postings for a particular user (e.g., the posting user ) into distribution channels such as email and text message, as well as social network accounts belonging to posting user such as Facebook, Twitter, or various instant message clients. Examples of a posting user may include a user, an association of users, members of an event, students in a class, members of a club and the like. According to some embodiments, the posting user may be coupled directly via the user device  to the syndication engine . According to other embodiments, the syndication engine  comprises a module associated with the social network provider .","A search engine  is coupled to the social network provider . The search engine  utilizes keywords selected from the central keyword database  by a particular user (e.g., the viewing user ) to form a search query to search for users'  profiles, posting users' postings and system generated postings using an algorithmic matching system that, among other things, evaluates different classifications of keywords within profiles and postings. According to some embodiments, the viewing user may be coupled directly via the user device  to the search engine . According to other embodiments, the search engine  comprises a module associated with the social network provider .","Referring now to , a block diagram of storage  and interface  modules of an exemplary social network provider, such as the social network provider  shown in , is shown. Storage  may include a profile database  for storing data associated with each of the users, such as the user  associated with user device . When a user  subscribes to services provided by the social network provider , a user profile may be generated for user . For example, the user  may select descriptive keywords to be the user's profile keywords from the central keyword database , privacy settings, provide links to social networks they belong to, provide work information, provide contact information, or group other users  according to one or more categories. When the user  adds additional information to the user's profile, such as adding additional contacts, the user's profile in the profile database  may be updated with the information added. The user's profile may be stored, modified, added, and so forth to any storage medium. Fewer or more components may comprise the social network provider  or components of storage  and interface  and still fall within the scope of the various embodiments.","According to some embodiments, certain components of the user's profile may be created outside of the social network environment and provided to or accessed by the social network provider . Alternatively, the profile database  may be located remotely and accessed by the social network provider .","The social network provider  may also include an interface  which may have a display engine\/GUI  and a communications interface  for communicating with users , such as via the user device  described herein, over the network . The user device  communicates various types of information, such as keyword selections, privacy setting selections, groupings of other users , and so forth, to the interface  via the communications interface . Any type of communications interface  is within the scope of various embodiments.","A central keyword database  provides users method of tagging profiles and postings, including event postings, with an identical, finite set of keywords, which are organized into categories. For example, the keyword \u201cpainter\u201d can be associated with a service provider, an artist or a job posting depending on the context of the user's actions. By organizing the same keyword under different categories within the central keyword database , users  can accurately tag their profiles and postings to ensure relevant searching or viewing by viewing users . It should also be noted that system generated postings can be similarly tagged with keywords from the central keyword database  to ensure relevant searching or viewing by viewing users . Furthermore, different categories may have different classifications which affect matching algorithms used by the smart-calendar engine , smart-feed engine  and search engine .","A viewing user may select a series of profile keywords for their profile which describe activity interests, and a posting user may subsequently select a series of posting keywords to describe an activity, some of which may match the viewing user's profile keywords. For example, a viewing user may select the keyword \u201cTriathlete\u201d which describes his or her activity interests. The viewing user will therefore have \u201cTriathlete\u201d stored as one of his profile keywords. A different posting user may subsequently post or schedule an event for a triathlon practice, for example, giving a specific date and time for the event and attaching the keyword \u201cTriathlete\u201d to the posting. Because the viewing user's profile keyword matches the \u2018posting keywords, the viewing user may see the event posting via the smart-calendar engine or smart-feed engine. A viewing user may also see the event via the search engine\u2019. The posting user may be able to set certain privacy settings such that even if some keywords selected for the posting by the posting user from the central keyword database  are identical and stored under identical categories, a viewing user may not be able to view the posting because the matching algorithm recognized the posting was not appropriate. For example, the posting user may limit the event to be viewable or searchable by users who are designated as his friends, or within a certain location, or a certain social distance, or by assigning certain posting keywords which in turn exclude a viewing user, even though one of the posting keywords may match the viewing user's profile keywords, etc.","A relationship database  may be provided for storing relationship data about each user . In various embodiments, the viewing user can specify relationships with one or more users  of the social network via the user profile, or by any other means. The viewing user can segment relationships by assigning categories, groups, lists, networks, and so forth to one or more users  with which the viewing user has a relationship. The relationship, for example, may specify that the user  is a business relationship, family relationship, and so forth. Any type of relationship may be specified. The relationship database  may also provide a means for a viewing user to track a path of social connections between the viewing user and other users  which have a relationship distance greater than one-degree from the viewing user ","A display engine\/GUI  may also be provided by the interface . The display engine\/GUI  displays one or more items posting information, profile information, and so forth to users . Users  can interact with the social network provider  via the display engine\/GUI . For example, users  can select keywords from the central keyword database , select privacy settings, access their own user profile, access other users'  information available via the social network provider , and so forth, via the display engine\/GUI . The smart-calendar, smart-feed and search engine results may be displayed in fields within the display engine\/GUI .","A posting database  is provided for storing data associated with a posting user's postings, and system generated postings, into storage , and linking such data to the posting user's profile in the profile database . When a posting user elects to publish an item with posting keyword tags for viewing by viewing users in the calendar or news feed of the social network provider , a posting may be generated and stored in the posting database . For example, the posting user may post an event, job posting, question, request for service provider, request for a date, and so forth, select descriptive keywords to tag the posting from the central keyword database , provide additional relevant information concerning the posting, select privacy settings including limits on social distance and relationship segmentation, and provide contact information for at least one other viewing user to see. When the posting user adds information to or modifies information in the posting, such as location information, the posting database  may be updated with the information added. Postings may be stored, modified, added, and so forth to any storage medium.","Although the social network provider  is described as being comprised of various components including a smart-calendar engine , a search engine , smart-feed engine , syndication engine , and storage  and interface  components (which may include a profile database , a communications interface , a central keyword database , a relationship database , a display engine\/GUI , and a posting database ), fewer or more components may comprise the social network provider  and still fall within the scope of various embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","203","301","302","303","203","303","301","302","201","206"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","401","303","203","303","101","301","302","108","101","301","101","302"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","101","500","501","502","203","101","500","503","503"],"i":["a","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","101","607","101","606","101","603","203","608","603","101","101","601","603","603","605","101","608","104","101","607","601","203","607","607","602","101","607","104","105","607","101","606","601","101","601","101","607","101","603","105","101","607","101","608","607","101","606"],"i":["b ","a ","a ","a","a ","a ","b ","b ","a ","b","a","a ","b ","a ","a "]},"For example, in , the viewing user , Matt, may tag his profile in multiple ways by selecting keywords from a central keyword database  to be associated with his user profile . Such profile keywords  may reflect Matt's interests, activities, characteristics, or other aspects related to or about Matt, viewing user . For example, Matt may indicate his interests in \u201cPoker\u201d, \u201cOpera\u201d, \u201cSurfing\u201d, \u201cHang Gliding\u201d or \u201cPoetry\u201d by selecting such keywords from the central keyword database  to be included in his profile keywords . Matt may also indicate that he is of \u201cBrazilian\u201d descent. In other instances, the same profile keyword \u201cBrazilian\u201d may indicate that Matt is interested in \u201cBrazilian\u201d food or \u201cBrazilian\u201d culture, depending on the category of the keyword. Matt may also indicate that he is a student at Stanford, by selecting the profile keyword \u201cStudent: Stanford U\u201d or that he is enrolled in or has previously taken the \u201cFinance \u201d class. Further information on \u201cFinance \u201d may be available in a description, including information about the class, the class type, or that the class is taught by \u201cProfessor Jones\u201d. It can be appreciated that numerous other profile keywords  can be chosen from the central keyword database  by Matt , including but not limited to \u201cGraphic Design\u201d, \u201cC++Software Engineer\u201d, or \u201cSingle\u201d.","The posting user , Erika, may post to a social network certain event postings, job postings, request postings, question postings, statement postings, news postings, etc. In , an example of an event posting \u201cWe are playing 5-card stud tonight!\u201d is shown. Erika may set certain privacy settings for the posting. For example, Erika may limit the posting  to be viewed by only Erika's friends, or only friends of friends (i.e. 2-degree friends), or only those who are students at Stanford, etc. Erika's posting may be assigned keywords from the central keyword database  to the posting. Such keywords assigned to the posting are \u201cposting keywords.\u201d A matching algorithm may then match the profile keywords of viewing users to posting keywords of postings. In one embodiment, when a posting is matched to a viewing user, the viewing user may view the posting in his or her smart-feed . In this example, because Matt's profile keyword \u201cPoker\u201d matches Erika's posting keyword, Matt is notified of Erika's posting  via his smart-feed .","It should be noted that a user  may not need to manually select profile keywords  from the central keyword database  to tag their profile , and that this process can be accomplished through automated means regardless of whether the keyword(s)  are specifically mentioned in the profile. It should also be noted that a posting user may not need to manually select posting keywords from the central keyword database  to tag their posting , and that this process can be accomplished through automated means regardless of whether the keyword(s) are specifically mentioned in the posting. It should be further noted that a viewing user's smart-feed  is not the only place where a posting  matched by the smart-feed engine  becomes displayed for the viewing user , and the display may be inside or outside the social network  environment, may be displayed as a result of a search, in the user's smart-calendar or through other means not specifically described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","701","101","606","101","702","702","203","704","705","706","707","104","101","606","101","105","101","603","203","203"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","b","a "]},"For example, the posting user , Erika, may create an event posting . The title  may be \u201cWe are playing 5-card stud tonight.\u201d Erika may select posting keyword tag  \u201cPoker\u201d from the central keyword database  to be associated with the posting . Erika may select a date  to be \u201cMar. 23, 2009\u201d, may select a time  to be \u201c9:30 pm\u201d and the location  to be \u201cTrump Casino.\u201d Erika may set privacy settings  such that only users with a social distance of two degrees or less may see the posting. Other options may include limiting the viewing to friends directly connected to Erika, or to hide the posting from business contacts, or to limit it to certain specific users or groups. As described above, the matching algorithm may determine whether any viewing users match the posting , taking into account profile keywords , posting keywords , and other privacy settings. In addition, in cases where a posting  has multiple keywords  attached, the matching algorithm may take into account certain groupings of these keywords  as part of the matching process. For example, in scenario A, if a posting  is tagged with a group of three keywords , the matching algorithm may only match the posting to a viewing user if the viewing user has all three posting keywords  as profile keywords . Alternatively, in scenario B, if a posting  is tagged with a different group of three keywords , the matching algorithm may match the posting  to a viewing user if the viewing user has any one of the three posting keywords  as profile keywords . In addition, the matching algorithm could take into account any combination of scenarios A and B and with any number of posting keywords . The matching algorithm may take into account keyword groupings for the smart-feed engine , smart-calendar engine  and the search engine . In the case of the smart-feed engine , if the matching algorithm matches a posting to a viewing user, then the viewing user may view the matching posting in his or her smart-feed . It should be noted that the exemplary environment  represents an event-related posting, and other types of postings may not require the same data input.","In another example, the system may generate a posting from a third party website. For example, a group buying website may post opportunities for discounts for a certain purchase which would only be available if enough people buy. The group buying website may additionally have this post posted as a system generated post within the system\u2014and matched to users with specific interests or specific profile keyword tags.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","607","101","105"],"i":"a "},"In the exemplary screen shot, the smart-feed display contains postings , which contain data relevant to an event-related posting, or any other kind of posting which may be available such as a job posting, news posting, etc. In one embodiment, the posting contains information such as social distance  between the viewing user and posting user , the number of common first-degree relationships (\u201cfriends\u201d)  between the viewing user and posting user , the ability search other postings  by the posting user , keyword posting tag(s)  from the central keyword database  selected by the posting user , event date, time and location information , number of friends attending  and the ability to view additional details or join the event .","In certain embodiments, the posting modules  can have advertisements  posted along side each posting . These advertisements  may be targeted by posting tag keywords  attached to the posting.","The smart-feed may contain a sorting function  which allows a viewing user to sort the smart-feed by date\/time, posting user name, social distance  of the posting user, the number of common first-degree relationships (\u201cfriends\u201d) , chronological posting order, geographic distance of event, or other data points associated with the posting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","101","907","101","909","101","903","203","908","101","901","903","903","905","101","908","104","101","907","901","203","907","902","101","907","104","902","203","105","907","101","909","901","101","901","101","907","101","903","101","101","105","907","101","908","907","101","906"],"i":["b ","a ","a ","a ","a ","b ","b ","a ","b","a","a ","a ","b","a ","a "]},"It should be noted that a user  may not need to manually select keywords  from the central keyword database  to tag their profile , and that this process can be accomplished through automated means regardless of whether the keyword(s)  are specifically mentioned in the profile. For example, certain keywords  from the central keyword database  may be assigned based on a user's information from other social networks, an uploaded resume, other keywords that the user has selected or that have been tagged to the user's profile, etc. It should also be noted that a posting user may not need to manually select keywords from the central keyword database  to tag their posting , and that this process can be accomplished through automated means regardless of whether the keyword(s) are specifically mentioned in the posting. It should be further noted that a viewing user's smart-calendar  is not the only place where a posting  matched by the smart-calendar engine  becomes displayed for the viewing user , and the display may be inside or outside the social network  environment. A smart-calendar engine  determines if \u2018posting  should be matched to a viewing user's smart-calendar  based on a matching algorithm which, among other things, may take into account the privacy settings  of the posting user , the privacy settings  of the viewing user , the keywords with which the posting  is tagged and how those keywords relate to the viewing user's keywords , the degree relationship (social distance) between the viewing user and the posting user , and\/or location of the user relative to location of the event posting (or any combination or subset of the foregoing). It should be understood that any combination of the foregoing factors may be utilized by the matching algorithm. For example, the matching algorithm may only take into account a user's degree relationship (social distance) with another user and may not factor in other variables, such as keyword matching. Thus, a viewing user may also choose to receive event postings posted by other users having a certain relationship with the viewing user (e.g., a first degree relationship) in their smart-calendar  regardless of keyword matching.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["1000","1001","101","906","101","101","1002","1002","203","1004","1005","1006","1007","104","101","906","101","101","106","101","903","203","101","106"],"i":["a ","b","b ","a ","a ","b","a ","a "]},"For example, the posting user , Erika, may create an event posting . The title  may be \u201cWe are playing 5-card stud tonight.\u201d Erika may select posting keyword tag  \u201cPoker\u201d from the central keyword database to be associated with the posting . Erika may select a date  to be \u201cMar. 23, 2009\u201d, may select a time  to be \u201c9:30 pm\u201d and the location  to be \u201cTrump Casino.\u201d Erika may set privacy settings  such that only users with a social distance of two degrees or less may see the posting. Other options may include limiting the viewing to friends directly connected to Erika, or to hide the posting from business contacts, or to limit it to certain specific users or groups. As described above, the matching algorithm may determine whether any viewing users match the posting , taking into account profile keywords, posting keywords, and other privacy settings (or any combination or subset of the foregoing). If the matching algorithm matches a posting to a viewing user, then the viewing user may view the matching posting in his or her smart-calendar  through the smart-calendar engine .","It should be noted that the exemplary environment  represents an event-related posting, and other types of postings may not require the same data input.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","101","1101","101","1101","104","107","107","1101","101","1102","1104","1106","101","1105"],"i":["b ","b ","b ","b "]},"It should be noted that the exemplary posting  represents an event-related posting, and other types of postings may use the syndication engine.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","203","1201","1203","108","1201","101","203","108","201","203","1202","1203","101","203","108","206","203","1204"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1300","101","1302","203","104","1302","203","104","101","1303","203","1305","108","1306","1306","1306","101"],"i":["b ","a ","b. "]},"For example, viewing user \u201cMatt\u201d may construct a query by choosing keywords from the central keyword database \u201cLatin America\u201d and \u201cVolunteer tourism.\u201d Matt may then adjust certain filters such as geographic distance, social distance, time, date, etc. The query may be processed by the search engine  to produce results  which find postings which match the search query, as shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","101","1401","203","1402","101","101","101","101"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1500","101","1302","203","104","101","1503","203","1505","108","1506","1506","1506","101"],"i":"a "},"For example, viewing user \u201cMatt\u201d may construct a query using keywords from the central keyword database \u201cParaplegic\u201d and \u201cHand cycling.\u201d Matt may then adjust certain filters such as geographic distance, social distance, time, date, etc. The query may then be processed by the search engine  to produce results  which find profiles which match the search query, as shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1600","101","1601","203","1602","101","101","101","101"],"i":["a ","a ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 15"],"b":["1700","1701","101","1704","204","205","101","1702","1703","1074","101","101","1701","101","1701","1701","1700","104"],"i":["a ","a ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1800","101","1801","1802","204","1803","1804","1805","101","1802","1801"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1900","101","1902","1903","1904","101","1901","203","101"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["2000","105","101","101","2001","2003","2005"],"i":["a ","a "]},"A user may select \u201cCustomized settings\u201d or \u201cAdvanced Options\u201d  to adjust specific calendar matching criteria (as described further below). A user may select \u201cFriends' Activities\u201d  in order to view all events their friends (or social network connections) have joined or formed, provided their friends have privacy settings which permit those events to be viewed. A user may also view \u201cSuggested Activities\u201d  to see all matched results. Various category filters  also allow filtering by main categories (e.g., Entertainment, Sports & Athletics, Recreation, Arts & Culture, Lifestyle, etc.) and allow a user to select sub-categories (e.g., Social\/Nightlife, Music, Movies & Film, Dancing, Playing Cards, Video Games, Tabletop Games, etc. within the category of Entertainment).","In the exemplary screen shot in , the smart-calendar display contains posting results , which contain data relevant to an event-related posting. In one embodiment, the results contain information such as social distance  between the viewing user and posting user , the number of common first-degree relationships (\u201cfriends\u201d) between the viewing user and posting user , the ability search other postings by the posting user , keyword posting tag(s)  from the central keyword database  selected by the posting user , event date, time and location information , number of friends attending  and the ability to view additional details or join the event.","In certain embodiments, a user may accumulate points based on the number of activities or events that a user joins or creates. The points may accumulate according to interest. For example, a user may be able to accumulate volleyball points if the events are related to volleyball, baseball card collecting points for events related to baseball collecting etc. Once the user achieves a certain number of points, the user may receive some sort of indication (for example, a larger custom profile icon pertaining to that interest or an article of clothing which displays their favorite activity icon). A user may be able to access certain offers after achieving a certain point threshold as well. For instance, a user may be able to receive virtual currency in return for passing certain point accumulation thresholds. This virtual currency may be used to purchase items on the social network, or potentially on other social networks or systems such as game networks, or even for the purchase of physical goods. The user may also be able to accumulate enough points to earn coupons or discounts for the purchase of goods or services from partner businesses which have formed agreements with the social network.","In certain embodiments, the user may receive coupons or discounts for joining an activity or event which has been posted in the system by partner businesses which have formed agreements with the social network. These coupons or discounts could be used for the purchase of goods or services from partner businesses. In some cases, users may receive coupons or discounts for joining activities and events from system generated postings or from businesses which have not specifically partnered with the social network.","In certain embodiments, the posting results  can have advertisements posted along side each result . These advertisements may be targeted by using posting tag keywords attached to the posting.","The smart-calendar may contain a sorting function  which allows a viewing user to sort the smart-calendar by date\/time, posting user name, social distance of the posting user, the number of common first-degree relationships (\u201cfriends\u201d), chronological posting order, geographic distance of event, only events the viewing user is attending, or other data points associated with the posting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["2100","2101","2102","2103","2104","2105","2106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["2201","2202","2203","2204","2201","2202","2203","2204","2201","2202","2203","2204"]},"Various other types of data may also be aggregated. For example, a number may be generated by the total number of historical posts generated by the user , a number may be generated by the total number of current activities (not expired) the user has created or joined  (selecting this button may produce filtered results of \u201cmy posts\u201d with only current activities the user has created or joined), a number may be generated by the total number of friend requests that the user has outstanding , and a number may be generated by the total number of friend suggestions the user has outstanding .","A dashboard may also include a map  that displays pins of calendar activities on a map at a location of a certain activity. A \u201cFriends' Activities\u201d tab  may display calendar results from a Smart Calendar for a user's friends' activities. A user may also be able to be alerted if friends join an event\u2014for example, if the user clicks on a posting, a posting details page may be launched. Further, a link to a Smart Calendar may be provided. A \u201cSuggested Activities\u201d tab  may also be available to display a user's keyword matched activities from other users within a social distance of X degrees from the user, or other suggestions from the system. When selected, the map view may change to show activities suggested. Clicking on (or mousing over) a particular pinned location on a map may produce a pop-up or bubble with information relating to the posting such as keywords matching, date\/time, or other information relating to the posting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIGS. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 23","FIG. 23"],"b":["24","25","2300","2301","2300","2301","2300","2301","2300","2301"]},"The wheel selection may also be organized into primary categories and subcategories. For example, the left wheel may include various primary categories for activities (such as Sports, Entertainment, Recreation, Lifestyle) as discussed above, and the right wheel selection may be dynamically loaded with options based on subcategories within the primary categories. For example, upon selecting \u201cSports\u201d in the left wheel , various sports options such as \u201cBasketball\u201d, \u201cTennis\u201d, \u201cSoccer\u201d, and \u201cFootball\u201d may be loaded in the right wheel , and made available for the user to select from.","As shown in , the system may automatically generate an activity description from the posting user's wheel selections. For example, if the user selects \u201cGo\u201d and \u201cSurfing\u201d, the system may automatically generate a description  of \u201cGoing Surfing.\u201d Similarly, the system may automatically generate a description  of \u201cAttending Lecture\u201d from wheel selections of \u201cAttend\u201d and \u201clecture\u201d, or \u201cGetting Dinner\u201d from wheel selections of \u201cGet\u201d and \u201cDinner\u201d, or \u201cSeeing a band\u201d from wheel selections of \u201cSee\u201d and \u201cBand.\u201d It can be appreciated that various types of activity descriptions  may be automatically generated from the various wheel selection combinations that are possible. In addition, the user may also be able to input other fields for the event posting such as a more detailed description , location , an event time , and may invite other viewing users to participate in the event in .","Based on the wheel selections and other information that is provided by the posting user, the system may automatically associate certain keyword tags from the central keyword database for the event posting. The system may be able to analyze various English words and phrases added to the posting description by posting user, whereby the wheel selection acts as a filter to improve this analysis, allowing for the mapping to focus on a more narrow range of possible choices to correctly generate certain keyword tags. In doing so, the system may need to take into account tense, plurality, misspelling, and other factors. Because the event posting may be associated with various posting keyword tags, the event posting may be displayed for various viewing users in a smart-feed, as a result of a search, in the user's smart-calendar or through other means as discussed above.","In , the system may automatically generate location selections from the posting user's wheel selections. For example, if the user selects \u201cGet\u201d and \u201cCoffee\u201d, the system may automatically generate several choices of nearby coffee shops for the posting user to choose from. In addition, the user may also be able to use a search function to search for other locations within a database. Alternatively, the user may be able to input a location name and address if the location is not available in the search results or automated options offered. The system may choose to present the automatically generated choices in a certain order, for example, by highlighting sponsored results on top or in some other manner.","As shown in , if the user inputs an additional description into the input field , the system may automatically suggest one or more interests (or profile keyword tags)  to be mapped to the user's profile. The user may be given an option with buttons  to be able to add the interest (or profile keyword tag) to the user's profile. Further, the system may leverage the user's wheel selections to improve the interest (or profile keyword tag) suggestions. For example, if the user selects \u201cWatch\u201d and \u201cMovie\u201d using the wheel selections and enters a description into input field , the system may then analyze description content for movie-related interests (thus reducing false-positive matches that could produce interests not related to movies). The user may also input a location into field , a time into field , and invite other users in field .","As shown in , in creating a posting, the posting user may also create an opportunity for automatic interest matching or other forms of advertisements. As described above, a posting user's wheel selections may allow the system to generate a posting description , such as \u201cSeeing a band\u201d for example. Based on the user's wheel selections (and\/or based on the user's other input fields such as the description , location , time , invited friends , etc.), the system may also identify or suggest other events, destinations, interests, etc. For example, the system may be able to semantically identify \u201cReggae Music\u201d as an interest and allow the posting user an option to add it to the posting user's profile keyword tags. If other invited users  make plans to attend the event as well, the system may also give those users the option to add the interest \u201cReggae Music\u201d to such viewing user's profile keyword tags, as appropriate. It may also be possible to generate other advertisements based on the user's wheel selections (and\/or based on the other input fields).","It can be appreciated that various types of postings may be created using the mobile interface (using wheel selection for the hierarchy of category selections) as described above. For example, in addition to event postings, the user may create other postings such as message postings, job postings, request postings, question postings, statement postings, news postings, etc. in various categories as selected by the wheel selections. There may also be varying numbers of wheels representing different category levels. For example, there may be only one wheel, or three wheels, four wheels, five wheels, etc.","All concepts of the invention may be incorporated or integrated with other systems and methods for utilizing social network information, including but not limited to those described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007\/0174304 (Shrufi et al.) published on Jul. 26, 2007 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008\/0040673 (Zuckerberg et al.) published on Feb. 14, 2008, which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.","While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention will be obtained by reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative embodiments, in which the principles of the invention are utilized, and the accompanying drawings of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"300"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"500"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"700"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"800"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":"900"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":"1000"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":"1100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":"1200"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"1300"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":"1400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":"1500"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":"1600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":"1700"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":"1800"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":"1900"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":"2000"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":"2100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 23","b":["24","25","26","27"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
