---
title: Method and system for measuring wireless link quality
abstract: The present disclosure discloses a method and network device for measuring wireless link quality. The disclosed network device retrieves a plurality of packet transmission data corresponding to a plurality of transmission rates at which packets are transmitted over a wireless link between two wireless nodes in a wireless network. The network device also determines a wireless link quality metric value corresponding to the wireless link at least based on at least an average throughput associated with the plurality of transmission rates. The wireless link quality metric value can be further based on a maximum throughput corresponding to a hardware component in at least one of the two wireless nodes. The wireless link quality metric value can be used in monitoring or managing the wireless network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215609&OS=09215609&RS=09215609
owner: ARUBA NETWORKS, INC.
number: 09215609
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121016
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present disclosure relates to wireless link quality measurement in wireless networks. In particular, the present disclosure relates to improved estimation of link quality for a wireless link between two wireless nodes when the wireless link environment changes in a wireless network.","Wireless networks aim to provide reliable connectivity for user and high end-to-end throughput performance. Routing is one of the most important factors affecting connectivity and throughput in wireless networks, especially in multi-hop wireless mesh networks. Routing establishment depends on metric values associated with each routing path. The metric typically considers many comprehensive factors, such as hop count, delay time, and link quality. For a wireless network, the hop count and the delay time are relatively easy to measure. On the other hand, the link quality is complicated and difficult to measure, because wireless link environment often is influenced heavily by reliability and interference.","One conventional way of estimating wireless link quality uses the measured packet delivery ratio to represent the link quality of a particular wireless link. To support link quality measuring, unicast probing packets are usually used to probe link's packet delivery ratio.","However, link quality estimation based on the packet delivery ratio cannot reflect how busy the link environment is. Since the physical layer has built-in mechanisms to avoid transmission conflicts, the packet deliver ratio may be quite high, even though the link environment is very poor.","Moreover, the conventional way of estimating wireless link quality does not consider the influence of transmission rate on the link quality. For example, assuming that at the beginning of data transmission, payload packets are transmitted at a high transmission rate. Subsequently, the link environment deteriorates. Accordingly, the transmission rate is adjusted to a lower transmission rate. On the other hand, the packet delivery ratio at a low transmission rate may be higher than at the packet delivery ratio at a high transmission rate. As a result, when the link environment becomes worse, the estimation of link quality using conventional way can actually get better instead of reflecting the worsened link environment. Under these circumstances, the conventional assessment of wireless link quality cannot accurately measure the actual wireless link quality.","In the following description, several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding. While the context of the disclosure is directed to channel scanning in discovery stage of fast roaming in wireless network, one skilled in the relevant art will recognize, however, that the concepts and techniques disclosed herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details, or in combination with other components, etc. In other instances, well-known implementations or operations are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of various examples disclosed herein. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.","Overview","Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to wireless link quality measurement in wireless networks. In particular, the present disclosure relates to improving estimation of link quality for a wireless link between two wireless nodes when the wireless link environment changes in a wireless network.","According to embodiments of the present disclosure, wireless link quality is calculated based on throughput estimation, which takes into account changes in transmission rates. The transmission rate is capable of being self-regulated. Specifically, when the link environment changes, such as RSSI altering, signal interference, etc., the transmission rate will make corresponding adjustment automatically. Thus, the selection of transmission rate in part reflects quality of the current link environment.","In some embodiments, the disclosed method estimates packet delivery ratio with unicast probing packets and normal traffic packets. Whether a network device shall send unicast probing packets may depend on existence of normal payload packets. In some embodiments, the uncast probing packets are sent only when no normal payload packets are to be transmitted.","To estimate wireless link quality, the network device first samples packets' transmission information at each of a plurality of transmission rates. Next, the network device calculates packet delivery ratio with respect to each transmission rate, and estimates average throughput at least based on transmission rates and related packet delivery ratio in current environment. Then, the network device calculates wireless link quality percentage as an \u03b1\/\u03b2 ratio, where \u03b1 indicates the estimated average throughput in current environment, and \u03b2 indicates maximum valid throughput in the ideal environment.","With the solution provided herein, a disclosed network device retrieves or samples a plurality of packet transmission data corresponding to a plurality of transmission rates at which packets are transmitted over a wireless link between two wireless nodes in a wireless network. The network device then determines a wireless link quality metric value corresponding to the wireless link at least based on (a) an average throughput associated with the plurality of transmission rates and (b) a maximum throughput corresponding to a hardware component in at least one of the two wireless nodes, wherein the average throughput is determined based in part on a plurality of packet delivery ratios. The wireless link quality metric value calculated according to the present disclosure can accurately reflect real-time link quality despite of changes in link environment and varied packet transmission rates as a result of network physical layer's conflict avoiding mechanism. Such wireless link quality metric may be used in either monitoring or managing the wireless network.","Computing Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","110","130","138","130","100","136","110"]},"Moreover, the plurality of wireless nodes - may be interconnected to each other via wireless links or wired connections. For example, in , through various wireless links, wireless node  is connected to wireless nodes  and ; wireless node  is connected to wireless nodes  and ; wireless node  is connected to wireless nodes , , and ; wireless node  is connected to wireless nodes  and ; wireless node  is connected to wireless nodes ,  and ; etc.","Each wireless link between two wireless nodes can be measured by a wireless link quality metric. For illustration purposes only, in , the wireless link between wireless nodes  and  is associated with link metric ; the wireless link between wireless nodes  and  is associated with link metric ; the wireless link between wireless nodes  and  is associated with link metric ; etc.","When a packet to destination digital device  is received from source digital device  by wireless node , wireless node  dynamically selects a network device at the next hop to forward the packet. For example, wireless node  may compare link metric  with link metric . If link metric  indicates a better quality, wireless node  will select wireless node  as the next hop and forward the packet to wireless node . Therefore, accurate and reliable wireless link quality estimation results in better routes being selected for transmission of packets.","The network depicted in  may operate on a private network including one or more local area networks. The local area networks may be adapted to allow wireless access, thereby operating as a wireless local area network (WLAN). Moreover, the network may include a wired or wireless distribution system. In some embodiments, the network may be a wireless mesh network,","In addition, network depicted in  may include multiple network control plane devices, such as network controllers, switches, routers, etc. Network control plane devices can provide functions, such as creating and enforcing network policies, providing adaptive radio management, intrusion prevention, quality of service, and\/or mobility, etc.","Packet Transmissions in Varied Link Environments",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-2C","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["210","212","210","212","222","210","232","212","212","232","234"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["210","212","210","212","222","210","240","212","212","240","212","210","242","212","242","212","210","242","244","246","212","212","248"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 2C","FIG. 2C"],"b":["210","212","210","212","222"]},"In this example, the initial link environment is good. Thus, initially sender device  sends data packet   at a high transmission rate to receiver device  at time point t, receiver device  will receive data packet  successfully at time point tand sends back an acknowledgement message, e.g., ACK , at time point t. ACK  is received by sender device  at time point t.","For illustration purposes only, assuming that the link environment deterioration  occurs between time point tand time point t. As a result, data packet   is transmitted at a low transmission rate to receiver device  at time point t. After receiver device  receives data packet   at time point t, receiver device  sends an acknowledgement message, e.g., ACK , at time point t. The acknowledgement message is received successfully by sender device . Thus, the packet delivery ratio remains high as a result of successful delivery of data packets at an adjusted lower rate. However, the high packet delivery ratio is not indicative of a good link environment in this case.","Wireless Link Quality Measurement",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["350","360","340","370"]},"In , the link quality measuring mechanism estimates the node-to-node link quality in wireless networks. In some embodiments, the process of link quality estimation can be completed in a wireless node that sends the packets.","After a packet is transmitted, data related to the packet transmission will be entered into LQS , which computes statistical information of the packet transmission data. Such packet transmission data may include, but is not limited to, transmission rate, the number of retransmissions, backoff time from previous transmissions when applicable, succeed or fail outcomes, etc. In some embodiments, the packet can be a data packet including payload information. In other embodiments, the packet may be a unicast control packet including a probing message. In some embodiments, LQS  samples packet transmission data at various transmission rates, such as, rate  , rate  , . . . rate K .","LQE  integrates information of transmission data at various transmission rates as provided by LQS , and estimates the wireless link's quality using formulas described later in this disclosure. In some embodiments, LQE  may be used on-demand. The on-demand request can be received from, for example, user display , or route selection mechanism . In some embodiments, a network administrator may want to monitor the link quality on a user interface, or check on the link quality of a particular wireless link. The network administrator will be able to receive wireless link quality estimation provided by LQE  through user display . In other embodiments, a wireless node may need to update its routes, for example, when network topology changes. In order to do so, the wireless node can request link quality estimations from LQE  via route selection mechanism .","A. Link Quality Statistics","For each transmission rate, there can be a storage used to store statistics information within a packet statistics period (PSP). In some embodiments, LQS  only stores the statistics information corresponding to the latest transmission period of time, which can be PSP. In particular, a continuous transmission timeline within PSP can be divided into a plurality of small transmission time slices. LQS  may use one memory unit to store the packet transmission result within each small transmission time slice. LQE  will choose all of the memory units within the PSP to calculate the packet delivery ratio.","After each packet is transmitted, LQS  will perform statistical calculation of the transmission result. For example, LQS  can calculate statistical information, such as transmission rate, the number of retransmissions, backoff time from previous transmissions when applicable, succeed or fail outcomes, etc.","In addition, LQS  will index the memory unit by transmission rate and\/or transmission time. After calculating the transmission result, LQS  adds the transmission result to a corresponding counter in the indexed memory unit based on the transmission rate and\/or transmission time associated with the current packet transmission.","Note that, the transmitted packets can be either normal traffic packets , or unicast probe packets . In some embodiments, when there is no normal traffic packet  to be transmitted over the wireless link, the wireless node may send a unicast probing packet  to test the link quality during that particular period. By sampling a combination of normal packets and unicast probing packets, the wireless link quality measuring mechanism based on LQS  and LQE  usually work well even in the absence of active traffic over the link, and thus providing dynamic real-time estimation of the wireless link quality.","More specifically, each wireless node may maintain a timer, which triggers the unicast packet probing mechanism. The timer may be pre-configured by a network administrator based on the network environment, topology, conditions, etc. When the pre-configured time set by the timer expires, the sending wireless node checks whether any traffic packets have been transmitted during the last time slice or PSP. If no traffic has been transmitted, the sending wireless node will send a plurality of unicast probe packets to the receiving wireless node of the wireless link.","The number of unicast probe packets and the transmission rates at which they will be sent can be determined at least in part based on previous transmission results stored in the memory units. In some embodiment, the wireless link quality measuring mechanism will determine a total number of unicast probing packets to be transmitted to the receiving wireless node, how many groups the unicast probing packets will be transmitted, how many unicast probing packets will be transmitted within each group, the transmission rate at which each group of the unicast probing packets will be sent, etc.","B. Link Quality Estimation","The link quality estimation by LQE  as disclosed herein is based on throughput estimation. The hardware transmission rate indicates the hardware's maximum ideal throughput. However, the real throughput is usually lower than the hardware transmission rate. For example, when the hardware transmission rate is 300 Mbps, the real valid throughput may be merely 220 Mbps even in an ideal link environment. Therefore, LQE  uses the valid throughput instead of the hardware transmission rate to estimate wireless link quality metrics.","The link quality estimation disclosed in the present disclosure maintains a corresponding valid throughput for each hardware transmission rate. The valid throughput indicates the maximum throughput with a specific hardware transmission rate in an ideal environment.","Moreover, in some embodiments, the valid throughput estimation is performed based on the assumption that there is no contention on wireless transmission channel, and thus the wireless node sends maximum transmission units (MTU).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"sub":["IFS ","PH ","payload ","IFS ","PH ","payload "],"b":["415","425","435","415","410","425","420","435","430"]},"For a specific hardware transmission rate, the valid throughput estimation is calculated according to the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["Throughput","valid"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["MTU","bytes","bits"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u00d7","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mn":"8"},{"msub":[{"mi":["t","IFS"]},{"mi":["t","PH"]},{"mi":["t","payload"]}],"mo":["+","+"]}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["IFS ","PH ","payload ","IFS ","PH ","payload "]},"Specifically, the transmission time of the payload tcan be determined as the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["t","payload"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["L","payload"]},{"mi":["R","hardware"]}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["payload ","hardware "]},"By applying the above equations to various hardware transmission rates and wireless modes, the link quality measuring mechanism can acquire valid throughputs, which correspond to each related transmission rate per wireless mode.","For illustration purposes only, assuming that there are K different transmission rates. At each transmission rate, the storage or database records the packets transmission information within the PSP. Because retransmitted packets consume bandwidth of wireless channels, should the retransmitted packets failed to be delivered successfully, the failure will be accounted as a transmission failure. For instance, when transmitting a packet, a wireless node retries 4 times and finally succeeds at the transmission on the 4th retransmission. In this example, for the purpose of calculating link quality metrics, unlike conventional methods, the link quality measuring mechanism will treat the original packet transmission and the 4 subsequent retransmissions of the same packet as if 5 distinct packets have been transmitted over the wireless channel with 1 packet successfully delivered and 4 packet delivery failures.","The following formula is used to calculate total packets number within PSP:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["N","sum"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["S","i"]}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["F","i"]}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i ","i "]},"Usually the numbers of the transmission packets at each transmission rate is not the same within the PSP. Thus, a greater number of packets transmitted at a specific transmission rate usually is associated with a higher weight. Accordingly, numbers of transmission packets are used as a weighing factor when calculating the average throughput. The weights are represented by \u03b1below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","i"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["S","i"]},{"mi":["F","i"]}],"mo":"+"},"msub":{"mi":["N","sum"]}}}}}},"In the present disclosure, packet delivery ratio is calculated with respective to each of the different transmission rates at which packets are transmitted. Furthermore, the packet delivery ratio in the i transmit rate is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["E","i"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["S","i"]},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["S","i"]},{"mi":["F","i"]}],"mo":"+"}}}}},"br":{},"sub":"i "},"When transmitting each packet, the sender wireless node chooses a transmission rate as it deems most appropriate. As a result, the valid throughput corresponding to the transmission rate can approximately represent real maximum throughput in the current link environment, even though the traffic is very low.","The average throughput depends on valid throughputs at various transmission rates, while packet delivery ratio is considered. The average throughput can be estimated by the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","avg"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"R","mrow":{"mi":"vaid","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"i"}}},{"mi":["E","i"]},{"mi":["\u03b1","i"]}],"mo":["\u00d7","\u00d7"]}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i ","i "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","avg"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"K"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"R","mrow":{"mi":"vaid","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"i"}}},"mo":"\u00d7","mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["S","i"]},{"mi":["N","sum"]}]}}}}}}}},"Finally, the disclosed link quality measuring mechanism calculates the wireless link quality by computing a ratio between the average throughput and the maximum ideal throughput.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"Link_quality","mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["R","avg"]},{"mi":["R","max_valid"]}]},"mo":"\u00d7","mn":"100"}}}},"br":{},"sub":["avg ","max",{"sub2":"\u2014"},"valid "]},"In some embodiments, the throughput-based link quality measuring mechanism as disclosed in the present disclosure estimates the average throughput in the current link environment. In some embodiments, the throughput-based link quality measuring mechanism can also expect real throughput in the current link environment to facilitate route selection as needed in, for example, wireless mesh networks.","Experiment Results of Wireless Link Quality Metric",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["610","620","630","640","650"]},"In the depicted example, the sending wireless node and the receiving wireless node were initially configured to work on IEEE 802.11a mode, and to form a wireless distribution system (WDS) link. Then, the current link environment of the WDS link is artificially changed such that the transmission rate is adjusted gradually from a low transmission rate to a high transmission rate. For each adjusted transmission rate, the system records a link quality percentage of the sending wireless node, tests the maximum throughput from the sending wireless node to the receiving wireless node, and records the real throughput in specific transmission rates. The obtained results are illustrated in the table in .","The item Expect IPUT is calculated by:\n\nExpect_IPUT=\u00d7link_quality\u00d7100\n\nwhere Ris ideal maximum throughput. In the example illustrated in , the ideal maximum throughput is 28.00 Mbps. From the table illustrated in , the system can extract wireless link quality metric values, including but not limited to, link quality percentage; expect throughput; real throughput; etc.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["610","620","640","630"]},"Processes for Measuring Wireless Link Quality in Wireless Networks",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"]},"First, the disclosed network device determines whether normal traffic packets are received during a packet statistical period (PSP) (operation ). If not, the network device transmits a plurality of unicast probing packets at multiple transmission rates on the wireless link (operation ). In some embodiments, the unicast probing packets are transmitted in groups. Further, the network device determines one or more of: (i) a total number of unicast probing packets to be transmitted to a wireless node, (ii) a total number of groups that the unicast probing packets are transmitted in, (iii) numbers of unicast probing packets to be transmitted within each group, and (iv) transmission rates at which each group of the unicast probing packets is to be sent. Also, note that, the transmission rate at which a packet is transmitted may be adjusted in response to a link environment change (for example, as influenced by interference level, channel load, etc.) on the wireless link.","If normal traffic packets are received or after unicast probing packets are transmitted, the network device next samples packet transmission data at multiple transmission rates (operation ). In some embodiments, the sampled packet transmission data includes one or more of: a packet delivery ratio, a packet transmission rate, a total number of retransmissions, a backoff time from previous transmissions, and a transmission outcome.","Moreover, the network device may optionally store the packet transmission data (operation ). Specifically, the network device may divide the PSP into multiple transmission time slices, and store the packet transmission data corresponding to each transmission time slice in a unique storage unit. Furthermore, the network device can index the storage units based on packet transmission rate or packet transmission time, or both (operation ).","Also, the network device can retrieve packet transmission data at multiple transmission rates within PSP (operation ). In some embodiments, the network device retrieves the packet transmission data in response to an inquiry received via a user interface. In other embodiments, the network device retrieves the packet transmission data when it needs to select or update a route.","Next, the network device calculates a weighted average of sampled packet transmission data, where the weight is determined based on at least the number of packets transmitted at a corresponding transmission rate (operation ). Thus, the more packets transmitted at a specific transmission rate, the more weight is given to the sampled packet transmission data associated with the specific transmission rate. Note that, while determining one or more of the packet delivery ratio and the transmission outcome, each retransmission of a previously transmitted packet is treated as a new transmission, and thereby mitigating network physical layer's built-in mechanism for avoiding conflicts.","In addition, the network device determines a wireless link quality value based on a ratio between an average throughput and a maximum throughput (operation ). The average throughput is further determined based on valid throughputs corresponding to the plurality of transmission rates. Here, a valid throughput indicates an approximate maximum throughput at a respective transmission rate in current link environment of the wireless link. The valid throughputs are estimated at least based on time of an inter frame space between transmissions of a first packet and a subsequent packet, transmission time of a physical header of a packet, and transmission time of payload data of the packet. Moreover, the transmission time of payload data of the packet is determined based on at least a total length associated with the packet and a hardware transmission rate.","Systems for Measuring Wireless Link Quality in Wireless Networks",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},"Network device  includes at least one or more radio antennas  capable of either transmitting or receiving radio signals or both, a network interface  capable of communicating to a wired or wireless network, a processor  capable of processing computing instructions, and a memory  capable of storing instructions and data. Moreover, network device  further includes a receiving mechanism , a transmitting mechanism , a link quality statistics mechanism , and a link quality estimation mechanism , all of which are coupled to processor  and memory  in network device . Network device  may be used as a client system, or a server system, or may serve as node in a distributed or a cloud computing environment.","Radio antenna  may be any combination of known or conventional electrical components for receipt of signaling, including but not limited to, transistors, capacitors, resistors, multiplexers, wiring, registers, diodes or any other electrical components known or later become known.","Network interface  can be any communication interface, which includes but is not limited to, a modem, token ring interface, Ethernet interface, wireless IEEE 802.11 interface (e.g., IEEE 802.11n, IEEE 802.11ac, etc), cellular wireless interface, satellite transmission interface, or any other interface for coupling network devices. In some embodiments, network interface  may be software-defined and programmable, for example, via an Application Programming Interface (API), and thus allowing for remote control of the network device .","Processor  can include one or more microprocessors and\/or network processors. Memory  can include storage components, such as, Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM), Static Random Access Memory (SRAM), etc.","Receiving mechanism  generally receives one or more network messages via network interface  from a distribution system or radio antenna  from a wireless client over a wireless communication channel. The received network messages may include, but are not limited to, requests and\/or responses, beacon frames, management frames, control path frames, and so on. Each message may comprise one or more data packets, for example, in the form of IP packets.","Transmitting mechanism  generally transmits messages, which include, but are not limited to, requests and\/or responses, beacon frames, management frames, control path frames, and so on. In some embodiments, transmission mechanism  can transmit a plurality of unicast probing packets at the plurality of transmission rates, and thereby allowing real-time estimation of link quality of the wireless link in absence of traffic packets. Note that, in some circumstances, transmitting mechanism may adjust a transmission rate at which a packet is to be transmitted in response to a link environment change on the wireless link.","Link quality statistics mechanism  generally generates statistical information of packet transmission data. Specifically, link quality statistics mechanism  retrieves a plurality of packet transmission data corresponding to a plurality of transmission rates at which packets are transmitted over a wireless link between two wireless nodes in a wireless network.","Optionally, link quality statistics mechanism  may also determine whether a traffic packet is received within the PSP. If not, transmission mechanism  will transmit a plurality of unicast probing packets at the plurality of transmission rates. In such cases, link quality statistics mechanism  further determines one or more of: (i) a total number of unicast probing packets to be transmitted to a wireless node, (ii) a total number of groups that the unicast probing packets are transmitted in, (iii) numbers of unicast probing packets to be transmitted within each group, and (iv) transmission rates at which each group of the unicast probing packets is to be sent.","Link quality estimation mechanism  generally estimates wireless link quality. Specifically, link quality estimation mechanism  determines a wireless link quality metric value corresponding to the wireless link at least based on (a) an average throughput associated with the plurality of transmission rates and (b) a maximum throughput corresponding to a hardware component in at least one of the two wireless nodes. The average throughput is determined based in part on a plurality of packet delivery ratios and valid throughputs corresponding to the plurality of transmission rates. Further, the valid throughput indicates an approximate maximum throughput at a respective transmission rate in current link environment of the wireless link. The valid throughputs can be estimated at least based on time of an inter frame space between transmissions of a first packet and a subsequent packet, transmission time of a physical header of a packet, and transmission time of payload data of the packet. Moreover, the transmission time of payload data of the packet is determined based on at least a total length associated with the packet and a hardware transmission rate.","Therefore, receiving mechanism , transmitting mechanism , link quality statistics mechanism , and link quality estimation mechanism  often collectively operate with each other to improve performance of client devices during discovery stage of their fast roaming in wireless networks.","According to embodiments of the present disclosure, network services provided by wireless network device , solely or in combination with other wireless network devices, include, but are not limited to, an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.1x authentication to an internal and\/or external Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) server; an MAC authentication to an internal and\/or external RADIUS server; a built-in Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) service to assign wireless client devices IP addresses; an internal secured management interface; Layer-3 forwarding; Network Address Translation (NAT) service between the wireless network and a wired network coupled to the network device; an internal and\/or external captive portal; an external management system for managing the network devices in the wireless network; etc.","The present disclosure may be realized in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems coupled to a network. A typical combination of hardware and software may be an access point with a computer program that, when being loaded and executed, controls the device such that it carries out the methods described herein.","The present disclosure also may be embedded in non-transitory fashion in a computer-readable storage medium (e.g., a programmable circuit; a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory \u201cRAM,\u201d or non-volatile memory such as read-only memory, power-backed RAM, flash memory, phase-change memory or the like; a hard disk drive; an optical disc drive; or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus \u201cUSB\u201d flash drive), which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein, and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following: a) conversion to another language, code or notation; b) reproduction in a different material form.","As used herein, \u201cdigital device\u201d generally includes a device that is adapted to transmit and\/or receive signaling and to process information within such signaling such as a station (e.g., any data processing equipment such as a computer, cellular phone, personal digital assistant, tablet devices, etc.), an access point, data transfer devices (such as network switches, routers, controllers, etc.) or the like.","As used herein, \u201caccess point\u201d (AP) generally refers to receiving points for any known or convenient wireless access technology which may later become known. Specifically, the term AP is not intended to be limited to IEEE 802.11-based APs. APs generally function as an electronic device that is adapted to allow wireless devices to connect to a wired network via various communications standards.","As used herein, the term \u201cinterconnect\u201d or used descriptively as \u201cinterconnected\u201d is generally defined as a communication pathway established over an information-carrying medium. The \u201cinterconnect\u201d may be a wired interconnect, wherein the medium is a physical medium (e.g., electrical wire, optical fiber, cable, bus traces, etc.), a wireless interconnect (e.g., air in combination with wireless signaling technology) or a combination of these technologies.","As used herein, \u201cinformation\u201d is generally defined as data, address, control, management (e.g., statistics) or any combination thereof. For transmission, information may be transmitted as a message, namely a collection of bits in a predetermined format. One type of message, namely a wireless message, includes a header and payload data having a predetermined number of bits of information. The wireless message may be placed in a format as one or more packets, frames or cells.","As used herein, \u201cwireless local area network\u201d (WLAN) generally refers to a communications network links two or more devices using some wireless distribution method (for example, spread-spectrum or orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing radio), and usually providing a connection through an access point to the Internet; and thus, providing users with the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still stay connected to the network.","As used herein, the term \u201cmechanism\u201d generally refers to a component of a system or device to serve one or more functions, including but not limited to, software components, electronic components, electrical components, mechanical components, electro-mechanical components, etc.","As used herein, the term \u201cembodiment\u201d generally refers an embodiment that serves to illustrate by way of example but not limitation.","It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations, enhancements, equivalents, and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications, permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.","While the present disclosure has been described in terms of various embodiments, the present disclosure should not be limited to only those embodiments described, but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Likewise, where a reference to a standard is made in the present disclosure, the reference is generally made to the current version of the standard as applicable to the disclosed technology area. However, the described embodiments may be practiced under subsequent development of the standard within the spirit and scope of the description and appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure may be best understood by referring to the following description and accompanying drawings that are used to illustrate embodiments of the present disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
