---
title: Device and method for inducing brain injury in animal test subjects
abstract: An apparatus and method for inflicting brain injury on a laboratory animal that employs a platform for supporting the laboratory animal. The platform defines an opening for positioning the head of the laboratory animal over the opening. A projectile is launched from a projectile launching device orientated below the opening of the platform. The projectile launching device has a means for propelling the projectile directly at and/or through the opening of said platform, thereby inflicting brain injury on the animal via either a pressure wave or concussive impact of the projectile. Without helmet, direct impact of the projectile results in severe traumatic brain injury. Use of helmet protects animals from skull fracture, subdural hematoma, intracerebral hemorrhage and contusion yet produces mild concussion-like pathology.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08973565&OS=08973565&RS=08973565
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08973565
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120808
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This invention claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61\/521,446 filed on Aug. 9, 2011.","This invention was made with support from the United States Government, specifically the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, and; accordingly, the United States Government has certain rights in this invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates a device and method for inducing traumatic brain injury (TBI) in animal test subjects. Specifically, the invention is (1) a device driven by compressed gases and method for launching a small projectile designed to impact a target and (2) a protective custom-designed small animal helmet that uses pressure sensor film to measure the force\/distribution of the impact pressure on both the outer and inner surfaces of the helmet.","2. Brief Description of Related Art","Traumatic brain injury (TBI) has been identified as a significant public health concern affecting over 1.7 million people each year in the United States alone. The vast majority of nonfatal TBIs (75%) in military have been classified as \u201cmild\u201d (mTBI) typically caused by closed-head concussion (Gerberding J L and Binder S. 2003. Report to Congress on Mild Traumatic Brain Injury in the United States: Steps to Prevent a Serious Public Health Problem. In: ). Because of the high use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in war, there has been increased concern regarding combat-related concussions sustained by U.S. military personnel (Owens B D, Kragh J F, Jr., Wenke J C, Macaitis J, Wade C E and Holcomb J B. (2008). Combat wounds in operation Iraqi Freedom and operation Enduring Freedom. J Trauma. 64:295-299). It has been estimated that up to 28% of U.S. military personnel sustained at least one concussive mTBI event while deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan (Warden D. (2006). Military TBI during the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. J Head Trauma Rehabil. 21:398-402). Moreover, the emergence of the mTBI casualty during OIF and OEF and the extremely high incidence of which it has occurred in our soldiers has defined this combat wound as the \u201csignature injury\u201d of these wars. From the period 2000 through 2010, over 200,000 cases of TBI were diagnosed in the military (http:\/\/www.health.mil\/Research\/TBI_Numbers.aspx), with over 75% of these injuries classified as mTBI. Importantly, combat troops are often exposed to more than one concussion or mTBI in a short timeframe, the cumulative effects of which can produce long-lasting effects including physical, mental, emotional and cognitive impairments and may place our returning soldiers at increased risk for PTSD and\/or neurodegenerative disorders.","Despite the high incidence of closed-head concussive mTBI in civilian and military sectors, objective diagnostic tools and knowledge about what occurs in the brain following this type of injury are limited. Ideally, the diagnosis or treatment of mTBI would be based upon understanding the injurious changes in the brain on a cellular level. However, concussive-impact induced mTBI does not produce structural changes detectable by conventional neuroimaging techniques, making clinical diagnosis challenging, particularly in the presence of more obvious injuries. Much of what has been learned about concussion in the past decade has been acquired through the systematic study of concussion sustained in sports. Currently, the clinical diagnosis of mTBI relies on symptom reporting and neurological exams, such as the Sport Concussion Assessment Tool 2 (SCAT2) National Football League (NFL) sideline exam and the Military Acute Concussion Evaluation (MACE). However, these tests typically require baseline scores for clear interpretation and rely heavily on self-reported symptoms and subjective evaluations. Increased understanding of the complex pathophysiological processes affecting the brain as a result of concussion may provide more objective diagnostic tools and improve guidelines for managing cerebral concussion for both our military population and the civilian population.","In order to study experimentally-induced concussion in animal test subjects that is clinically relevant, we have developed a device and method for producing closed-head projectile-induced concussive impact in animal test subjects. The device and method is capable of producing brain injuries ranging from mild to severe. In order to induce mild TBI, the model requires the animal test subject to wear a custom-designed small animal helmet to protect the head from bruising, yet allowing the brain to sustain an injury that meets the \u201cclinical\u201d criteria of a concussion.","An object of the invention is to produce an animal model with traumatic brain injury to advance research.","Another object of the invention is to inflict measured pressure wave or projectile mediated concussion in laboratory animals.","The present invention provides an experimental tool and method to elucidate the mechanism and pathology of mTBI and facilitate therapeutics research aimed specifically at mTBI treatments.","In order to study problems of mTBI in the research laboratory, we disclose a 1and 2generation device, both of which are driven by compressed gases and a method for launching a small projectile designed to impact a target, which includes a protective custom-designed small animal helmet that uses pressure sensor film to measure the force\/distribution of the impact pressure on both the outer and inner surfaces of the helmet. The 1generation device uses a method whereby exposure to heat produces rapid sublimation of dry ice contained in a torque-sealed microcentrifuge that generates a strong pressure-wave to cause non-concussive (without a projectile) or concussive (unprotected, directly impact by a projectile) brain injury. The 2generation device uses a computerized apparatus driven by compressed gases and a method for launching a small projectile designed to impact a target and a protective custom-designed small animal helmet that uses pressure sensor film to measure the force\/distribution of the impact pressure on both the outer and inner surfaces of the helmet. The 2generation device allows for greater manipulation of the injury parameters while providing better control over the \u201cpressure wave\u201d effect. Different degrees of mTBI can be produced by controlling the amount of pressurized gas and the distance of impact from a laboratory animal's head. This method produces clinically relevant mTBI deficits in expected neuropathological (i.e. astrocyte accumulation, nestin and heat shock protein upregulation and neurodegeneration) and neurofunction outcomes (i.e. motor, cognitive and gait disturbances).","Advantages of the present invention over the prior art include, but are not limited to, being more compact and safe, more logistically compatible with small lab spaces, being less inexpensive to set-up and maintain, and being amenable to high throughput experimentation. A salient feature of this invention is that it is capable of reliably and reproducibly generating a true closed-head concussion leading to mild, moderate or severe TBI in animal test subjects with clinically-relevant symptoms and neuropathology. The present invention can induce a closed head trauma that does not require any surgical procedures that is completely non-invasive (i.e. scalp incision, no burr holes for screw sets, or craniotomy).","To aid in understanding the invention, several terms are defined below.","\u201cAnimal test subject\u201d refers to, without limitation all deuterostomia, including chordates and specifically mammalia, as well as any live organism with a discernable brain capable of being analyzed using known techniques. Said animal test subjects are administered according to U.S. Government principles for the utilization and care of vertebrate animals used in testing, research, and training and in accordance with Public Law 89-544, 1966, as amended, (P.L. 91-579, P.L. 94-279 and P.L. 99-198) 7 U.S.C. 2131 et. seq., and the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, National Academy Press, 1996, Washington, D.C., or succeeding revised editions, as well as applicable laws, regulations and policies.","\u201cPropellant\u201d refers to a gas to include carbon dioxide gas, nitrogen gas, ambient air, gaseous products of a chemical reaction, or the like.","\u201cPropulsive force\u201d refers to the kinetic energy used to eject a projectile from a source.","\u201cPressure sensor\u201d includes, without limitation, all electromagnetic, resistive, capacitive, and optical sensors; all pressure transducers, pressure transmitters, pressure sensors, pressure indicators, piezoelectric sensor, manometers including sensors that rely on deflection of a membrane under an applied pressure difference; piezoresistors and strain gauges.","\u201cHeat source\u201d includes all means for heat transfer, including but not limited to conduction, convention and radiation means and heat produced from a chemical reaction, as well as any combination of these.","\u201cSensor film\u201d includes, without limitation, all colorimetric and electronic thin membrane film sensor which are able to indicate or measure pressure magnitude and distribution between contacting surfaces.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["1","1","2","2","3","4","3","4","5","3","1","1","17","4"],"i":["a ","b","a ","b"]},"On the upper platform , an opening  is defined therein. Adjacent to at least one side of the opening are one or more slide bar(s)  for positioning the head or skull of an animal such as a rodent or other laboratory animal over the opening . A screen  made of highly perforated metal, plastic or other sturdy material can be positioned over the opening  if desired for blocking the projectile yet allowing the pressure wave to pass through.","On the lower platform , a hook  is affixed to or integral with the lower platform. The hook  is for connecting to a projectile launching device B () to hold a projectile launching device securely in place under the opening  of the upper platform ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","6","1","10","6","1"],"i":["b ","b"]},"As shown in , the projectile launching device B is made of a vial or tube  having a chamber . The chamber is for receiving dry ice (not shown). A heating coil  wraps around the tube  to heat the tube. A force transducer  is also provided for measuring the recoil force of the tube .","In , according to a first embodiment of the invention; a pressure wave  is induced by compressed COgenerated via sublimation of heated dry ice  in the projectile launching device. Dry ice is packed in a tightly sealed microcentrifuge tube  and heated in boiling water bath  in a tub  ( and ). The sublimation of dry ice causes the cap  (also known as a projectile) on the tube  to burst and release a pressure wave  through the tube opening . A metal screen  is used to prevent the cap  from hitting the animals' head  to insure that the concussive force is in pressure wave form only. Reflected and side-on pressures were measured by pressure sensors located perpendicular and parallel to the direction of the pressure wave respectively . The pressures derived from different amounts of dry ice (0.2-0.8 g) were measured with the device using a PCB pressure sensor. It was found that the pressure magnitude is proportional to the amount of dry ice used. ().","In an alternate embodiment of the invention, animals are subjected to a pressure wave  with the screen  removed such that the cap  (or projectile) impacts directly on the anesthetized animal's head  ().","As shown in , the injury apparatus C is shown that has a platform A and the projectile launching device B. As shown in , the projectile launching device B is mounted securely to the platform A. The opening  in the upper platform is directly above the tube opening  so that the projectile  will target the animal's head  through the opening  of the upper platform . The metal screen  is removable and can attach to the platform by any manner of attachment. In operation, a laboratory animal's head is placed over the opening  and held in place by slide bars . Dry ice is placed in the tube  and a cap  is sealingly secured on the tube. The tightness of the cap is measured by a torque meter. The dry ice in the tube  is heated by either a water bath  or heating coils  or other suitable heating method facilitate the rapid sublimation of dry ice to COgas. The generation of COgas causes pressure to build up within the tube. A force transducer  is also provided for measuring the recoil force of the tube . The pressure increases enough to cause the cap to burst off the tube in an upward trajectory directed toward the opening  in the upper platform and through the opening to hit a laboratory animal's head and cause concussive impact injury. The screen  may be placed directly over the opening  if only a pressure wave injury is desired by the investigator. The screen  prevents the cap  from impacting the animal's head but allows the pressure wave generated by the COgas to pass through the screen and directly impact the animal's head.","In , a plexi-glass viewing chamber  covers the brain injury device for added experimenter protection while permitting full visual observation during the procedure.","The heating unit in  is composed of an outer metal chamber  and an inner metal cylinder  that holds the microcentrifuge tube  containing the dry ice. The inner cylinder is wrapped tightly by an electric heating coil . To minimize heat loss to the surroundings, a Bakelite insulator  is inserted between the outer chamber  and the heating coil . The temperature of the heating unit is set at 55.0\u00b15.0\u00b0 C. and is regulated automatically by a bench top heating controller  as shown in  (Omega Engineering Inc., CT).","Various novel aspects of preferred embodiments of the invention are described in the following, non-limiting, examples.","Anesthetized rats (with 2% isoflurane) were exposed to concussive impact via a cap or other projectile  targeted and propelled by compressed COgas released from 1.7 g dry ice (, , ,  and ). A cap  was tightly screwed on a microcentrifuge tube  using a torque meter and aimed at a target head . The targeted head mid-line site was 0.5-1 cm rostral to the interaural line. The tube  is heated to induce rapid COsublimation of dry ice  and a resultant increase in gas pressure within the tube . The pressure builds up in the tube until the thread on the tube fails to hold the cap in place, thus the cap is launched as a projectile in an impact trajectory towards the targeted head . Using a high-speed camera (2800 frames\/sec). The velocity of the projectile was 47.2\u00b12.3 m\/s as estimated based on high speed videos (3 kHz) and it was not related to the amount of dry ice used. The average reflected pressure and side-on pressure were 275 and 30 kPa respectively.","These subjects displayed various degrees of hemorrhage at 3 days and contusion at 14 days (-). Following direct impact of the projectile (unprotected), nestin (-) and HSP 27 (-) upregulation were detected at the impact site at 3 days and expanded to whole cortex at 14 days post injury. In addition, blood brain barrier leakage as revealed by the albumin extravasation was detected at both 3 and 14 days post-injury (-). Delayed neurodegeneration (silver staining) was observed in the thalamus and corpus callosum at 14 days post-injury (-). Cortical astrocytes near the impact site were activated at both 3 days and 14 days, while hippocampal astrocytes were activated at 14 days (-). -, -, -, -, -, and -are advantageous for viewing and for making comparisons. These cellular responses and structural damage were not found in sham control animals or animals subjected to pressure wave only.","Anesthetized rats (with 2% isoflurane) were exposed to concussive impact via a cap or other projectile  targeted and propelled by compressed COgas released from 1.7 g dry ice (, , ,  and ). A cap  was tightly screwed on a microcentrifuge tube  using a torque meter and aimed at a target head . The targeted head mid-line site was 0.5-1 cm rostral to the interaural line. The tube  is heated to induce rapid COsublimation of dry ice  and a resultant increase in gas pressure within the tube . The pressure builds up in the tube until the thread on the tube fails to hold the cap in place, thus the cap is launched as a projectile in an impact trajectory towards the targeted head . Using a high-speed camera (2800 frames\/sec). The velocity of the projectile was 47.2\u00b12.3 m\/s as estimated based on high speed videos (3 kHz) and it was not related to the amount of dry ice used. The average reflected pressure and side-on pressure were 275 and 30 kPa respectively. A metal screen  was used to block the cap  from impacting the animal's head  while allowing for the animal's head  to expose to the pressure wave generated during the eruption. Slight Increase in astrocyte activation was observed in hippocampus in animals subjected to pressure wave only at 14 days post-injury (-).","A modified projectile launching device B is disclosed (). Instead of using heated liquid, the modified device uses a controlled electrical heating coil  to heat and subsequently sublimates the dry ice. A heating plate near the tube  may be substituted for a heating coil.","It can be appreciated by one ordinarily skilled in the art that the nature of the tube (size, shape and material) may be changed and still be within the scope of the embodiments of the invention as disclosed herein. Further, the means for producing pressure in this embodiment of the invention may be suitably modified while still remaining within the scope of the preferred embodiment of the invention. In can also be appreciated that means for capturing and\/or deflecting the cap or projectile may be modified to suit the needs of the experiment requiring only that the pressure wave be allowed to continue substantially unabated towards the target head. Further still, the method of gathering data by way of this non-limiting example may be modified to suit the specific requirements of the experiment using methods well known in the art.","In a second embodiment of the invention, compressed gas, such as and preferably COgas, was substituted for dry ice sublimation to serve as a trigger mechanism for the projectile. The velocity of the projectile was estimated based on high speed videos. Impact force and pressures were measured at different COinput pressures.","According to the second embodiment of the invention, a brain injury device C has a projectile launching device B. The projectile launching device B is computerized to launch a small projectile  using compressed gases. The projectile launching device can be used to deliver a concussive impact traumatic brain injury.","As shown in , a brain injury apparatus C has an upper platform , preferably made of steel or other durable and strong material and a lower platform . The upper platform can be adjusted to different heights, preferably adjustable between 2-5 inches with the raising and lowering device . An opening  is defined by the platform . The opening is preferably ovular in shape. The opening  allows for exposure of an animal's head from the bottom of the upper platform . The opening is preferably at one end of the platform.","The raising and lowering device  can be manual or electronic. It can also be controlled by a computer. The type of raising and lowering device is not particularly important as long as it can operate to raise and lower the platform in relation to the projectile launching device and be locked into position.","A temperature sensor  and a pressure transducer  (to measure reflected pressure) are mounted near or on the underside of the upper platform (preferably parallel to the underside of the upper platform ) near the ovular opening . A second pressure transducer  (to measure side-on pressure) is also mounted near the underside of the platform (preferably on a metal plate attached to the underside of the platform) near the opening  that is perpendicular to the platform . The temperature and pressure data are collected by a data acquisition system and displayed on a computer . This data can be transported from the computer controlled interface  to a computer via a data transfer means . A data transfer means is any means known in the art that transports data such as but not limited to cable, Bluetooth, wirelessly. The computer can be part of the brain injury apparatus or can be a remote computer such as personal computer (PC).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["42","32","43","8","7"]},"Referring to , a projectile launching device B is positioned and mounted directly underneath the opening  defined by the platform . The projectile launching device B has a interchangeable projectile mount  to hold the projectile  in place, an electrically actuated solenoid pressure release valve , a gas reservoir , electro-pneumatic pressure control valve , computer control interface  (serial port), instrument controlling computer , and an inlet for compressed gases  as shown in .","The input pressure is directly proportional to the projectile velocity and impact force. The input pressure is user-selectable between 25 to 150 psi, which corresponds to forces ranging from 50 to 150 N and projectile velocities ranging from 20 to 60 m\/s. An experiment is initiated by entering the desired input pressure in the software module. When the desired input pressure has been reached, the computer controlled mechanism releases the projectile from the projectile launching device.","The platform and the projectile launching device can be contained within an enclosed anesthesia transparent viewing chamber  such as that shown in . The chamber can be plexiglass or other transparent material to permit viewing of the procedure. The dimensions of the chamber are preferably 15 inches wide by 15 inches long by 18 inches high. The chamber  preferably has one or more doors  and more preferably two sliding doors  to allow the manipulation of the animal and projectile placement. The chamber also preferably has ventilation means in the form of one or more inlet or outlet holes  to permit the inlet or outlet of a volatile anesthetic agent. The holes  are defined by the chamber and are preferably at opposite ends of the chamber.","The velocity of the projectile was estimated based on high speed videos. Impact force and pressures were measured at different COinput pressures. The device produced a range of projectile velocity and impact force dependent on the COinput pressure, as shown in . Specifically, an input pressure of 56 psi produced a velocity 39.93\u00b11.38 m\/s and impact force 171.84\u00b115.49N whereas an input pressure of 25 psi produced a velocity 22.34\u00b10.08 m\/s and impact force 55.04\u00b17.85N. In contrast, the average magnitude and duration of both reflected (2.95\u00b10.19 kPa, 7.12\u00b10.55 s) and side-on pressures (2.50\u00b10.30 kPa, 12.89\u00b11.52 s) did not vary with COinput pressure.","In summary, the linear relationship between input pressure of compressed gas and impact force\/projectile velocity in the second embodiment facilitates greater manipulation of the injury parameters. In addition, the pressure wave generated from the release of compressed COis of low magnitude and is not related to the input pressure. Thus, the injury is purely impact-induced and any \u201cpressure wave\u201d effect is minimal.","As shown in , a protective small animal or laboratory helmet  is made of a substrate  made of composite materials. The helmet is used in conjunction with the present brain injury apparatus. The helmet may have one or more pressure sensor films applied thereto for measuring pressure magnitude\/distribution. The helmet is attached to the subject's head by straps, string, tape or conforming fit.","An inner pressure sensor film  and an outer pressure sensor film  may be applied to or made integral with the helmet substrate materials  during manufacturing. The pressure sensor films measure the pressure magnitude\/distribution during impact on both the outer and inner surfaces of the helmet.","The animal helmets are constructed based on the dimension of the life size mold of an adult test animal type and breed. In the present invention, for example, the helmet was designed to fit a 300 g Sprague-Dawley male rat. The helmet can be designed to fit other types of animals. The helmet substrate is fabricated from but not limited to, the following materials: Carbon, glass, Kevlar and Dyneema.","The thicknesses of the helmet and the sensor film are about 0.91 mm and 0.18 mm respectively.","Specific examples of composite materials for the helmet are as follows:\n\n","Colorimetric pressure sensor films  and  are laid on the inner and outer side of the helmet to form a three layer helmet. The type of pressure sensor film used in the invention is Fujifilm Prescale Film. Pressure data (magnitude, distribution), contact area and impact force were analyzed using Topaq Pressure Analysis System (Sensor Products, Inc.). Upon impact, the inner film  reveals the pressure distribution profile, contact area, pressure and force magnitudes, that occurred between the helmet and rat head and outer film  reveals the same data that occurred between the helmet and projectile.","Helmets substrates constructed of three different composite materials, (A) woven glass\/carbon, (B) fiber glass pre-impregnated with resin, (C) Dyneema\/woven carbon fiber with toughened epoxy resin, were tested for protective performance. Strength and modulus of these composites were determined by tensile testing using the testing standard ASTM D3039 with Instron material testing system (10 kN load cell). To evaluate the helmet performance, rats were assigned into four groups (n=3\/group): Sham control (received anesthesia only), Helmet A, Helmet B and Helmet C. The helmet groups were subjected to PCI (right, 45\u00b0) once daily for consecutive five days. At 24 h after the 5th hit, brains were harvested after transcardial perfusion, post-fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde and cryoprotected in 20% sucrose solution. Coronal sections (40 \u03bcm) of cerebrum were immunostained for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and \u03b2-amyloid precursor protein (\u03b2APP). Immunoreactivities of GFAP and \u03b2APP were quantified using threshold analysis and were expressed as % Area (100%*thresholded pixel\/area).","The elastic modulus and maximum stress of Helmet A were much lower than those of Helmet B and C, indicating that material used for Helmet A are flexible and can be deformed by a small amount of stress whereas, Helmet B and C are relatively stiff.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0115"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Max. Stress",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"(MPa)","Max. Strain (%)","Elastic Modulus (MPa)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Helmet A","\u200214.3 \u00b1 0.5","3.9 \u00b1 0.2","362.9 \u00b1 2.3"]},{"entry":["Helmet B","303.2 \u00b1 5.5","4.7 \u00b1 0.2","\u20026525.7 \u00b1 174.9"]},{"entry":["Helmet C","133.9 \u00b1 2.4","4.6 \u00b1 0.1","2928.0 \u00b1 33.6"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The average pressure applied to the helmet's outer surface by the projectile was 4747\u00b160 kPa. All helmets effectively protected against skull fracture, subarachnoid hemorrhage and contusion. Pressure data of the inner surface demonstrated that helmet A (449\u00b16 kPa) yielded the most consistent pressure distribution and the highest force magnitude (160\u00b121N). Helmet A's material is flexible and can be deformed by a small amount of stress (low elastic modulus). Thus, it transfers load efficiently from the projectile impact to the animal's head that is critical for producing concussion in the absence of any overt pathology. In contrast, the other 2 helmets did not yield a satisfactory pressure distribution on the inner surface indicating these helmets were relatively stiff and may not effectively transfer the load to the rat head.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0117"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Average","Contact",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Pressure (kPa)","Area (cm)","Force (N)"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Between Projectile and",{},{},{}]},{"entry":"Helmet"},{"entry":["Helmet A","4894.73 \u00b1 87.22\u2002","1.15 \u00b1 0.08","567.19 \u00b1 45.55"]},{"entry":["Helmet B","5209.20 \u00b1 149.48","1.14 \u00b1 0.09","592.90 \u00b1 47.11"]},{"entry":["Helmet C","4481.04 \u00b1 106.39","1.18 \u00b1 0.09","527.74 \u00b1 47.11"]},{"entry":"Between Helmet and"},{"entry":"Animal's Head"},{"entry":["Helmet A","449.19 \u00b1 5.72\u2002","3.99 \u00b1 0.81","160.45 \u00b1 21.26"]},{"entry":["Helmet B","430.72 \u00b1 9.31\u2002","3.28 \u00b1 0.77","136.03 \u00b1 29.54"]},{"entry":["Helmet C","415.68 \u00b1 8.96\u2002","3.21 \u00b1 1.92","\u200253.65 \u00b1 10.41"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}},"br":{},"figref":"FIG. 20"},"The preferred helmet is made of fiberglass and carbon weave because it exhibited low elastic modulus and strength while demonstrating consistent load transfer efficiency that is critical for producing concussion without overt pathology. Histopathology results showed that astrocyte activation increased significantly in hippocampus of the rats with Helmet A at 24 hours following repeated projectile concussive impact injury.","Overall the combination use of the helmet and the compressed COprojectile launching device show a good concussive model with controlled, reproducible and quantifiable results. The intensity of the force can be titrated, potentially producing a wide spectrum of concussive injury severities for further study.","While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention. Therefore, it is intended that the claims herein are to include all such obvious changes and modifications as fall within the true spirit and scope of this invention.","The teachings of the references cited herein are incorporated herein in their entirety:"],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Definitions","Dry Ice Sublimation to Trigger Targeted Release of Small Projectile","EXAMPLE 1","Method for Inducing Projectile-Mediated Concussive Injury (Unprotected) with the First Embodiment","EXAMPLE 2","Method for Inducing Pressure Wave Concussive Injury the First Embodiment","EXAMPLE 3","Alternate Device and Method for Inducing Concussive Injury of the First Embodiment","Compressed COTrigger Mechanism","EXAMPLE 4","Device Characterization of Second Embodiment","Helmet Testing","EXAMPLE 5","Proof of Principle Injury Data of Second Embodiment","REFERENCES"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 8","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 11","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 11","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 11","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 13","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 21","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 21","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 21","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 21","i":"d "}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
