---
title: Trailer braking system for use with a fifth wheel/gooseneck hitch having a surge brake actuator
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for a trailer braking system for use with a fifth wheel hitch, a gooseneck hitch, or the like. A braking system for a trailer pulled by a tow vehicle includes an arm member extending downward from and pivotally connected to an upper portion of the trailer and a surge brake actuator connected to the upper portion of the trailer that is configured to control braking of wheels of the trailer. When the tow vehicle decelerates, inertial force caused by forward momentum of the trailer pivots the arm member such that force is exerted on the surge brake actuator to actuate the brakes of the trailer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09108601&OS=09108601&RS=09108601
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09108601
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120702
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","NUMBER KEY"],"p":["This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/601,160 filed Feb. 21, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference.","The invention described herein may be manufactured, used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.","I. Field of the Invention","Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a braking system, and in particular, to a trailer braking system for use with a fifth wheel hitch, a gooseneck hitch, or the like, having a surge brake actuator.","II. Description of Relevant Prior Art","Gooseneck hitches use a hitch ball to lock into place, while fifth wheel hitches use a wheel-shaped mounted plate to accomplish the connection.","Unlike regular hitches that generally extend from the back of the tow vehicle to couple to a horizontally-mounted hitch coupler provided on the trailer, gooseneck hitches, and the closely-related fifth wheel hitches, are typically anchored to a hitch on the tow vehicle via a fixed arm member extending downward from an upper portion of the gooseneck trailer. These hitching systems enable the trailers to be able to make tighter turns than the ones that connect off the back of the tow vehicle.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 1(","FIG. 1("],"i":["a","b"],"b":["140","150","100","150","100","110","120","150","110","120","110","145","140"]},"When a fifth wheel or gooseneck trailer is being towed behind a vehicle and the tow vehicle applies its brakes or otherwise decelerates, the trailer may continue to travel forward due to forward momentum of the trailer. This forward momentum causes inertial forces that can damage the hitch, the tow vehicle, and\/or the trailer.","Methods and apparatuses for a braking system having a surge brake actuator are described herein according to various embodiments of the present invention.","According to one or more embodiments, a braking system for a trailer pulled by a tow vehicle is described. The braking system may include: an arm member extending downward from and pivotally connected to an upper portion of the trailer; and a surge brake actuator connected to the upper portion of the trailer that is configured to control braking of wheels of the trailer. When the tow vehicle decelerates, inertial force caused by forward momentum of the trailer pivots the arm member such that force is exerted on the surge brake actuator.","According to one or more embodiments, a method for braking a trailer pulled by a tow vehicle is described, in which the trailer has a braking system including an arm member extending downward from and pivotally connected to an upper portion of the trailer, and a surge brake actuator connected to the upper portion of the trailer that is configured to control braking of wheels of the trailer. The method may include decelerating the tow vehicle. When the tow vehicle decelerates, inertial force caused by forward momentum of the trailer pivots the arm member and force is exerted on the surge brake actuator.","Embodiments of the present invention relate to a braking system having a surge brake actuator. The braking system may provide a connection between the trailer and the tow vehicle via a fifth wheel hitch, a gooseneck hitch, or the like, in some instances.","The trailer braking system may include an arm member extending downward from and pivotally connected to an upper portion of the trailer; and a surge brake actuator coupled to the upper portion of the trailer that is configured to control braking of the trailer. When the tow vehicle decelerates, inertial force caused by forward momentum of the trailer pivots the arm member such that force is exerted on the surge brake actuator. In some embodiments, the surge brake actuator may include a master cylinder assembly that is configured to output fluid pressure to the trailer wheel brakes which is substantially proportional to the rate of deceleration of the tow vehicle and the mass of the trailer.","In operation, when tow vehicle service applies its brakes or otherwise decelerates, the forward momentum of the trailer causes force to be exerted to the surge brake actuator though pivotal motion of the arm member. This in turn causes braking of the trailer wheels. The arm member, which is coupled to hitch of the tow vehicle, may also transmit the deceleration force of the tow vehicle to the surge brake actuator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"200"},"The trailer  generally includes a bed , wheels , and a pair of jack stands . The bed  may be configured for the particular application, load, or both of the trailer. A closed bed  compartment is shown; although, it should be appreciated that the trailer bed may be fully-open, partially-open or generally flat, as known in the art. In addition, the bed  may further include one or more doors, windows, vents, ramps, lifts, tail gate, and\/or the like. The trailer  may have a frame construction including rails, struts, and\/or beams with side wall or rails. The various frame members may be coupled together by welding, with fasteners (e.g., bolts) or the like.","The trailer is equipped with wheel brakes  for causing rotation of the trailer wheels  to slow down or stop altogether. The wheel brakes  may be a part of a hydraulic braking system having braking elements, such as, for example, conventional hydraulic drum or disc brakes. When fluid pressure is applied to the wheel brakes , the wheel brakes  apply a clamping force to the trailer wheels  to slow or stop rotation of the trailer wheels . Other types or trailer wheel brakes might also be provided in other embodiments.","The trailer  includes an arm member  that is pivotally connected to an upper portion  of the trailer. The arm member  may extend substantially vertically downward from the upper portion  of the trailer . Pivoting of the arm member  controls braking of the trailer  when the tow vehicle resists forward motion, such as when the tow vehicle decelerates. The greater the pivoting of the arm member , the greater the force applied to the surge brake actuator to variably control braking of the trailer wheels . On the other hand, when little to no fluid pressure is applied to the trailer wheel brakes, no clamping force will be applied to the trailer wheels  and the wheels  can rotate freely, and the arm member  may be at a generally vertical (i.e., 90 degree) position relative to the ground.","The upper end of the arm member  depends from an upper portion  of the trailer  while its lower end includes a hitch coupler  that is configured to releaseably couple with a hitch attached to the tow vehicle, such as a ball hitch, a fifth wheel hitch, or the like. The tow vehicle may be a conventional tow vehicle having a hitch mounted thereto. If the tow vehicle is a pick-up truck, the hitch may be mounted in its bed similar as shown in ), for example.","The trailer  may be adapted to transport a specific object, such as, car, boat, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), motorcycle, tractor, farm equipment, construction machinery, materials (e.g., lumber, pipe, beams, etc.), animals (such as horses, cows, livestock, etc.), or the like, for example. Moreover, the trailer may be integrated with or otherwise included with another object, such as a camper, recreational vehicle (RV), mobile command center, or the like, pulled by a tow vehicle. In one embodiment, the trailer may be 34 feet long, insulated, carpeted inside, and having a drop ceiling, an electrical system (e.g., 100 amp. 3 phase electrical system), a reinforced walking roof and guard rails. The trailer  may also be equipped with air conditioning, work benches, power cords and connectors, control systems and other amenities, as desired.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 4-6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIGS. 3(","FIGS. 3("],"i":["a","b","a","b"],"b":["3","300","3","300"]},"The surge brake actuator  may be a relatively simple hydraulic brake system from both an operational and installation perspective. As shown, the surge brake actuator  generally includes a body , a mounting plate , a push rod , a master cylinder assembly , and a fluid reservoir .","The push rod  is configured to slide in a direction D inwardly and outwardly relative to the housing . A coupling  may be provided at the external end of the push rod  for coupling with an element (e.g., an arm member or a lever arm) of the trailer braking system via a pivotal connection, such as a pivot pin.","One or more mounting holes  in the mounting plate  allow the surge brake actuator  to be mounted to a frame of the upper portion  of the trailer  by welding, with fasteners (e.g., bolts), or the like. A flexible, removable seal  may be positioned between push rod  and the mounting plate  to prevent dirt and debris from entering the housing . And, one or more bushings or bearings (not shown) may also be provided to help reduce or suppress friction between moving parts.","The master cylinder assembly  generally includes a slideable piston  and cylinder  having a variable volume in fluid connection with the braking system of the trailer via a port . Movement of the push rod  causes movement of the piston  to increase or decrease the volume of the cylinder . The port  allows fluid to flow between the master cylinder assembly  and the trailer wheel brakes, for instance via a fluid conduit (not shown), to control the trailer wheel brakes. For hydraulic wheel brakes, movement of the piston  generates a corresponding hydraulic fluid pressure in the braking system. In particular, when the push rod  slides inwardly (i.e., to the left in )), the cylinder volume of the master cylinder assembly  compresses thereby increasing the fluid pressure output to the trailer wheel brakes. Conversely, when the push rod  slides outwardly (i.e., to the right in )), the cylinder volume of the master cylinder  assembly expands thereby decreasing the fluid pressure provided to the trailer wheel brakes.","The master cylinder assembly  may be configured to control output of fluid pressure to the trailer wheel brakes. The fluid pressure output may be substantially proportional to the rate of deceleration of the tow vehicle and the mass of the trailer, for example.","As shown, the push rod  may be directly connected to or coupled with the piston  of the master cylinder assembly . Although, it will be appreciated that the push rod  might also be coupled to the piston  of the master cylinder  in other ways, such as, for example, via a pulley, linkage, lever, pitman, gear, or the like, to transfer movement and force there between. In some embodiments, the surge brake actuator  might further include a spring to bias the push rod  in one direction (e.g., outwardly), a shock absorber configured to dampen sudden movement (such as jolts) that the surge brake actuator may experience, or both.","The fluid reservoir  stores fluid and is fluidly connected to the master cylinder assembly . Excess hydraulic fluid may be stored here when not being provided to the trailer wheel brakes.","In some instances, a commercially-available actuator may be modified for use with one or more braking system embodiments of the present invention. For example, the surge brake actuator may be a modified DEMCO Model DA10 actuator available from Dethmers Manufacturing Co. (Boyden, Iowa). The Model DA10 actuator has a maximum load rating of about 12,500 lbs. GWVR and 1,000 lbs. load limit. Basic modification of the Model DA10 actuator may include removing the conventional hitch coupler and sliding frame element, and adding a push rod to the assembly and adapting the mounting plate for attachment to the upper portion of a trailer in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Further modifications may be necessary for various applications as desired. By using a commercially-available actuator, its safety and operational features may also be implemented in the trailer braking systems of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400"},"The trailer braking system  generally includes an arm member , a pivot pin , a hitch coupler , a motion resistance assembly , and a surge brake actuator .","As shown, the trailer braking system  may be included with, and\/or integrated in an upper portion  of a trailer which is to be pulled by a tow vehicle. The upper portion  may include a frame construction, including rails, struts, and\/or beams with side wall or rails. The various frame members may be coupled together by welding, with fasteners (e.g., bolts) or the like. Here, for example, the upper portion  of the trailer may include a top member and side members (one shown). Additional or fewer frame members might be provided, and the construction of the trailer may be different from what is shown.","The arm member  may be an elongated element that includes an upper end  and a lower end  which pivotally connects to the upper portion  of the trailer. The arm member  may be solid, hollow, or partially-hollow depending on weight and\/or strength requirements. In some embodiments, the arm member  may have a circular cross-section, although other cross-sectional shapes may also be possible.","The upper end  of the arm member  extends downward from and is pivotally connected to the upper portion  of the trailer by the pivot pin . The pivot pin  may be supported by side members on at least one of its ends. This allows the arm member  to be supported by the pivot pin  between at least one of the side members and to pivot. To reduce friction at the pivot point, a bushing or a bearing device can support the pivot pin  with respect to the upper portion of the trailer, the arm member, or both. Alternatively, the arm member  could also be pivotally connected to the upper portion  by a hinge, clevis, ball-and-socket joint, or the like, which enables pivotal movement there between.","The lower end  of the arm member  extends downward and outward from the upper portion  of the trailer and is adapted to couple to the tow vehicle. The lower end  may include a hitch coupler  that is configured to releaseably couple to a hitch  that is mounted to a plate  on the tow vehicle. The hitch  may be a hitch ball, fifth wheel plate, or the like.","The motion resistance assembly  is configured to resist motion and\/or stabilize sudden motion (such as jolts). The motion resistance assembly may include a moveable portion  and a stationary body portion . The motion resistance assembly  may include a spring , a shock absorber , or both. The spring  may be an automotive coil spring and the shock absorber  may be a heavy-duty automotive shock absorber, for example. The moveable portion  of the motion resistance assembly  contacts the arm member . For instance, the moveable portion  may simply be capable of being in touching-contact with the arm member  for transferring motion or force; although, in some embodiments, the moveable portion  could be coupled to the arm member  via a pivot connection to accomplish that purpose.","When there is no relative motion or differential forces between the trailer and the tow vehicle, the spring  of the motion resistance assembly  is configured to urge the pivotally arm member  to be held in a generally vertical position to prevent undue motion between the trailer and the tow vehicle.","The surge brake actuator  is configured to control braking of the trailer wheels. In various embodiments, the surge brake actuator  may be configured as the surge brake actuator  shown in . Here, the push rod  of the surge brake actuator  pivotally couples with the arm member  via a pin member . The surge brake actuator  may include a master cylinder assembly  which controls fluid flow to the trailer wheel brakes. Movement of the push rod  may cause similar movement of the master cylinder assembly . Fluid flows between the master cylinder assembly  and trailer wheel brakes for instance via a fluid conduit (not shown) to control the trailer braking system.","When the tow vehicle decelerates, the inertial force caused by forward momentum of the trailer urges the upper portion  of the trailer to move forward relative to the tow vehicle. This inertial force pivots the arm member  in a rotational direction C such that the push rod  is urged toward the body  of the surge brake actuator  and force is exerted on the surge brake actuator . The master cylinder assembly  in turn outputs fluid to the trailer wheel brakes for braking the wheels of the trailer. The greater the pivoting of the arm member , the greater the force applied to the surge brake actuator  to control braking of the trailer. The brake actuator  may be pivotally mounted to the upper portion  of the trailer to accommodate the arc direction C.","Under resistance to forward motion of the trailer, the spring  of the motion resistance assembly  is compressed with the application of force to the surge brake actuator . When force is removed from the surge brake actuator , the spring  of the motion resistance assembly  urges the arm member  back to the vertical position. The maximum extent of pivotal movement of the arm member  in the direction opposite to direction C past the vertical position may be limited, for example, using a stop, block, bar, detent or other motion limiting device.","The motion resistance assembly  and the surge brake actuator  may be mounted to the upper portion  of the trailer, for example, by welding, with fasteners (e.g., bolts), or the like. For instance, a mounting plate (e.g., mounting plate ) may be provided for this purpose.","In , the motion resistance assembly  is shown in a position closer to the pivotally connected upper end  of the arm member  than the surge brake actuator . However, it should be appreciated that in other embodiments, this arrangement could be reversed with the surge brake actuator  being in a position closer to the pivotally connected upper end  of the arm member  than the motion resistance assembly .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"500"},"Various elements of trailer braking system  may be similarly configured as trailer braking system  and thus will not be further described in great detail here (unless otherwise described below). In particular, in trailer braking system , an arm member , a pivot pin , a hitch coupler , a motion resistance assembly , and a surge brake actuator  may be similarly configured as the arm member , the pivot pin , the hitch coupler , the motion resistance assembly , and the surge brake actuator , respectively, of trailer braking system . In addition, trailer upper portion  may be similarly configured as trailer upper portion .","However, unlike in the braking system  illustrated in , where the motion resistance assembly  and the surge brake actuator  directly couple with the arm member , the trailer braking system  illustrated in  further includes a lever arm  coupled to the motion resistance assembly  and the surge brake actuator .","The lever arm  may be an elongated element that includes an upper end  and a lower end . The upper end  of the lever arm  pivotally connects to the moveable portion of the motion resistance assembly  and\/or the push rod of the surge brake actuator  with a pivot pin . The lower end  of the lever arm  pivotally connects to the upper portion  of the trailer with a pivot pin . Here, the lower end  of the lever arm  pivotally connects to the upper portion  of the trailer. However, it should be appreciated that the upper end  of the lever arm  might be pivotally connected to upper portion  of the trailer or to another element instead, in other embodiments.","A contact element  may be further provided on the arm member  or the lever arm  to contact the other of the arm member  or the lever arm . Here, the contact element  is shown provided on the lever arm  for contacting the arm member . The arm member  or the lever arm  which is provided with the contact member  may further include a plurality of predetermined locations for select placement of the contact element . For example, as shown in , the lever arm  is provided with a plurality of placement locations  for the contact member . The contact member  may simply be capable of being in touching-contact with the arm member ; although, in some embodiments, the contact element  could be coupled to the arm member  and the lever arm  via a pivotal connection such as a pivot pin.","Movement of the arm member  causes pivotal movement of the lever arm  via the contact member . The contact element  may be coupled to the arm member  or the lever arm  using a bolt, a clamp, a releasable pin, or the like.","The lever arm  enables more precise adjustment to be made for better braking action of the trailer, and may further increase mechanical advantage and\/or lower stresses on certain elements in various embodiments. For example, the placement of the contact member  relative to the other elements allows for adjustments to be made for optimal braking action of the trailer. As shown, the plurality of placement locations  may be holes. However, slots, recesses, clamping locations, or the like, might also be used for the same purpose. One or more additional lever arms may be further provided to increase mechanical advantage and\/or lower stresses on elements in various embodiments also.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"600"},"Various elements of trailer braking system  may be similarly configured as trailer braking system  and thus will not be further described in great detail here (unless otherwise described below). In particular, in trailer braking system , an arm member , a pivot pin , a hitch coupler , a motion resistance assembly , and a surge brake actuator  may be similarly configured as the arm member , the pivot pin , the hitch coupler , the motion resistance assembly , and the surge brake actuator , respectively, of trailer braking system . In addition, trailer upper portion  may be similarly configured as trailer upper portion .","The trailer braking system  further provides an additional safety feature for engaging the trailer wheel brakes when the trailer is not hitched to the tow vehicle. The trailer braking system  may further include a rod member  which translates with respect to the arm member . For example, the rod member  may be configured to slide within the confines of the arm member , as shown, or configured to slide fully or partially externally from the arm member . The rod member  may be an elongated element and may have a shape, size, or both that generally correspond to the arm member , in some embodiments.","As shown, the rod member  may include a cam surface  that engages a corresponding follower element  coupled to the external end of the push rod of the surge brake actuator . The follower element  may include a pivot pin that slides in a track or slot of the rod member  defining the cam surface , for instance.","The cam surface  and follower element  are configured to selectively enable braking action of the trailer braking system  by sliding movement of the rod member . As the rod member  translates with respect to the arm member  the cam surface  causes the follower element  to slide thereto. This action controls sliding movement of the push rod of the surge brake actuator  independently of pivotal motion of the arm member .","In some embodiments, as shown, the cam surface  may have a generally U- or V-profile with an inwardly-indented bottom surface and outwardly ramping surfaces. For instance, when the rod member  is in a first position (i.e., not coupled to the hitch of the tow vehicle), the ramped surface of the cam surface  of the rod member  engages the follower element  so as to push or urge the push rod of the surge brake actuator  inward. This results in large pressure being output by the master cylinder assembly and therefore a large pressure being initially applied to the trailer wheel brakes. This pressure can fully clamp the wheel brakes of the trailer.","Conversely, when the rod member  is in a second position (i.e. coupled to the hitch of the tow vehicle as shown in ), the inwardly-indented bottom surface of the cam surface  engages follower element  so as to draw or pull the push rod of the surge brake actuator  outward. This results in little to no pressure being output by the master cylinder assembly and therefore little to no pressure being initially applied to the trailer wheel brakes. Additional force can be exerted on the surge brake actuator , and in turn to the trailer wheel brakes, when the arm member  pivots similar to the trailer braking system .","A spring  may be positioned between the rod member  and the arm member  to bias the rod member  toward the hitch  of the tow vehicle (i.e., in the first position). The spring  may be a 400 lb. coil spring, for example, in one embodiment. The spring  may cause the surge brake actuator  to be applied by default to engage the trailer wheel brakes to prevent the trailer wheel from rolling when the trailer is not coupled to the hitch  of the tow vehicle.","In addition, a releasable pin  may be provided for locking the position of the rod member  with respect to the arm member . For example, after the arm member  couples to the hitch  of the tow vehicle (i.e., urging the rod member  into the second position), the pin  can be inserted into corresponding holes in the arm member  and rod member  to lock the rod member  in that position. The pin member  may be a cotter pin, bolt, bayonet coupling, or the like, for example. The safety feature of trailer braking system  may be incorporated into various embodiments of the present invention.","Elements of the various trailer braking systems described herein may be fabricated from any suitable materials, such as steel, aluminum, wood, or the like.","As should also be appreciated, no special modifications or added equipment is generally needed to be installed on the tow vehicle to couple with a trailer equipped with a trailer braking system in accordance with various embodiments. Thus, almost any properly sized, powered tow vehicle having a suitable hitch can be used to pull the trailer equipped with the trailer braking system.","The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.","While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention, other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof, and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":[{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0072"},"b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0002","num":"0073"},"b":"110"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0003","num":"0074"},"b":"120"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0004","num":"0075"},"b":"140"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0005","num":"0076"},"b":"145"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0006","num":"0077"},"b":"150"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0007","num":"0078"},"b":"200"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0008","num":"0079"},"b":"210"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0009","num":"0080"},"b":"220"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0010","num":"0081"},"b":"222"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0011","num":"0082"},"b":"240"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0012","num":"0083"},"b":"245"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0013","num":"0084"},"b":"250"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0014","num":"0085"},"b":"300"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0015","num":"0086"},"b":"310"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0016","num":"0087"},"b":"320"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0017","num":"0088"},"b":"322"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0018","num":"0089"},"b":"325"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0019","num":"0090"},"b":"330"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0020","num":"0091"},"b":"335"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0021","num":"0092"},"b":"340"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0022","num":"0093"},"b":"342"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0023","num":"0094"},"b":"344"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0024","num":"0095"},"b":"348"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0025","num":"0096"},"b":"350"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0026","num":"0097"},"b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0027","num":"0098"},"b":"405"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0028","num":"0099"},"b":"405","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0029","num":"0100"},"b":"405","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0030","num":"0101"},"b":"410"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0031","num":"0102"},"b":"412"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0032","num":"0103"},"b":"414"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0033","num":"0104"},"b":"420"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0034","num":"0105"},"b":"430"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0035","num":"0106"},"b":"440"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0036","num":"0107"},"b":"442"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0037","num":"0108"},"b":"444"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0038","num":"0109"},"b":"446"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0039","num":"0110"},"b":"450"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0040","num":"0111"},"b":"452"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0041","num":"0112"},"b":"454"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0042","num":"0113"},"b":"456"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0043","num":"0114"},"b":"458"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0044","num":"0115"},"b":"500"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0045","num":"0116"},"b":"505"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0046","num":"0117"},"b":"510"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0047","num":"0118"},"b":"520"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0048","num":"0119"},"b":"540"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0049","num":"0120"},"b":"550"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0050","num":"0121"},"b":"560"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0051","num":"0122"},"b":"562"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0052","num":"0123"},"b":"564"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0053","num":"0124"},"b":"566"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0054","num":"0125"},"b":"568"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0055","num":"0126"},"b":"570"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0056","num":"0127"},"b":"600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0057","num":"0128"},"b":"610"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0058","num":"0129"},"b":"620"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0059","num":"0130"},"b":"630"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0060","num":"0131"},"b":"640"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0061","num":"0132"},"b":"650"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0062","num":"0133"},"b":"654"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0063","num":"0134"},"b":"680"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0064","num":"0135"},"b":"682"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0065","num":"0136"},"b":"684"},{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0066","num":"0137"},"b":"686"}]}}],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["So that the manner in which the above recited features of the present invention can be understood in detail, a more particular description of the invention, briefly summarized above, may be had by reference to embodiments, some of which are illustrated in the appended drawings. It is to be noted, however, that the appended drawings illustrate only typical embodiments of this invention and are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope, for the invention may admit to other equally effective embodiments. These embodiments are intended to be included within the following description and protected by the accompanying claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 1(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 3(","i":["a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
