---
title: Methods, systems, and products for generating mashups
abstract: Methods, systems, and products simplify widgets for graphical mashups, such as digital dashboards and other user interfaces. When a software widget is a component of a graphical mashup, the widget is completely defined using a single file. The single file specifies both source data and presentation of the source data. Because the widget is completely defined by the single file, the single file allows faster processing of the widget.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558286&OS=09558286&RS=09558286
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09558286
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["COPYRIGHT NOTIFICATION","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["A portion of the disclosure of this patent document and its attachments contain material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records, but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.","Graphical mashups visually present data. A mashup may integrate data specified by one or more widgets. Widgets, though, are difficult to specify, thus leading to errors in integration.","The exemplary embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. The exemplary embodiments may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. These embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the exemplary embodiments to those of ordinary skill in the art. Moreover, all statements herein reciting embodiments, as well as specific examples thereof, are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally, it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future (i.e., any elements developed that perform the same function, regardless of structure).","Thus, for example, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the diagrams, schematics, illustrations, and the like represent conceptual views or processes illustrating the exemplary embodiments. The functions of the various elements shown in the figures may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing associated software. Those of ordinary skill in the art further understand that the exemplary hardware, software, processes, methods, and\/or operating systems described herein are for illustrative purposes and, thus, are not intended to be limited to any particular named manufacturer.","As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless expressly stated otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201cincludes,\u201d \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d and\/or \u201ccomprising,\u201d when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being \u201cconnected\u201d or \u201ccoupled\u201d to another element, it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. Furthermore, \u201cconnected\u201d or \u201ccoupled\u201d as used herein may include wirelessly connected or coupled. As used herein, the term \u201cand\/or\u201d includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.","It will also be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. may be used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example, a first device could be termed a second device, and, similarly, a second device could be termed a first device without departing from the teachings of the disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["20","22","24","20","26","20","22","28","20","28","30","28","28","32","34","32","32","32","34","36","22","34","32","28","22","28","20","22","28","38","40","20","28","28","32","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIGS. 2-3","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["28","28","32","32","28","28","32","28","32","28","34","28","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["32","32","50","52","22","32","50","32","22","50","22","54","56","50","34","32","34","28","50","32","50","32","22","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIGS. 5-7","FIG. 1"],"b":["20","60","40","62","20","28","40","20","64","22","64","24","22","64","66","28","20","66","28","20"]},"The mashup server  generates the mashup . The mashup server  has a processor  (e.g., \u201c\u03bcP\u201d), application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or other component that executes a mashup algorithm  stored in the local memory . When the mashup server  receives the web page request , the mashup algorithm  retrieves the widget  associated with the mashup identifier . The mashup algorithm  reads the single file  structure of the widget  to obtain the source definition  and the presentation definition . The source definition  specifies the data  to be retrieved, and the presentation definition  specifies how the data  is presented in the mashup .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["34","50","62","54","56","62","70","74","54","54","76","34","74","76","36","36","34","34","34","24","22","22","34","62","34","28","56","22","28","38"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["38","28","22","64","28","38","22","38","20","40","60","28","80","82","20","34","38"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["90","62","28","62","28","62","22","90","90","28","90","52","22","90","24","90","66","62","28","32","62","50","32","54","56","22","34","32","34","28","56"]},"Exemplary embodiments may be applied regardless of networking environment. The communications network (illustrated as reference numeral  in ) may be a wired and\/or wireless network having cellular and\/or WI-FI\u00ae capabilities. The communications network , however, may also operate using any other frequency or standard, such as the BLUETOOTH\u00ae standard or the Internet Protocol (IP). The communications network , however, may be a cable network operating in the radio-frequency domain and\/or the Internet Protocol (IP) domain. The communications network , however, may also include a distributed computing network, such as the Internet or an application of the Internet (such as cloud-based computing), an intranet, a local-area network (LAN), and\/or a wide-area network (WAN). The communications network  may include coaxial cables, copper wires, fiber optic lines, and\/or hybrid-coaxial lines. The communications network  may even include wireless portions utilizing any portion of the electromagnetic spectrum and any signaling standard (such as the IEEE 802 family of standards, GSM\/CDMA\/TDMA or any cellular standard, and\/or the ISM band). The communications network  may even include powerline portions, in which signals are communicated via electrical wiring. The concepts described herein may be applied to any wireless\/wireline communications network, regardless of physical componentry, physical configuration, or communications standard(s).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["100","34","32","22","34","28","100","34","102","34","32","102","104","100","34","54","102","34","22","102","34","72","72","104","28","34","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["32","50","54","56","54","110","110","36","110","110","110","72","110","32","28"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 11-12","b":["110","54","32","100","110","22","22","110","28","32"]},"Exemplary embodiments may include thresholding and alerting. As the one or more streams  of data are received, exemplary embodiments may compare the stream  of data to one or more threshold values. Some logical statement is defined that compares any data value in the stream  of data to a threshold value. If the data value satisfies or matches the threshold value, then an action is taken. The action, for example, may include a visual notification that is displayed in the mashup . The visual notification alerts the user of the client device  to some unexpected or out-of-spec condition in the source data .","Visualization may be explained. As  illustrates, a visualization engine may be triggered by a loader and installs resources required for visualization of the widget . A dashboard controller provides web services for widget  (or dashlet) installation and management, stream management, and threshold and alerting management. The Loader provisions the mashup  with new dashlets and loads pre-packaged and installable widgets (perhaps in the JAVA\u00ae archive format). An alerts engine includes a pre-packaged alerts dashlet that subscribes to threshold streams (with stream subscription service of streams cache) and configurable alert destinations. A streams cache provides another web service that supports fetching of stream posts and cache control. The streams cache may have any type and\/or characteristic, such as a weak hashmap (homegrown, on vm heap, single instance), an off heap map (homegrown, nio, single instance), an ORACLE\u00ae Coherence (distributed, commercial, non-persistent, non-time series), and\/or an APACHE\u00ae Cassandra (distributed, open-source, persistent, time-series). The dashboard controller may interact with a model view controller (MVC) framework that provides streams access to controllers and delivers alerts to controllers. The dashboard controller may also have an interface to a collector and thresholding engine that compares any data value in the stream  of data to a threshold value for both direct (in-process) and indirect (out-of-process w\/s) sources.  further illustrates an architecture for the model view controller (MVC) illustrated in .","The collector mechanism  may also be further explained. The collector and thresholding engine manages the stream providers, the stream definitions, and the stream subscription services. The collector and thresholding engine also provides a web service to the collector mechanism . The web service provides stream definition, stream control, and stream subscriptions. The stream providers collect the source data, support scheduling, support threshold detection (basis for alert definitions), support aggregation and\/or summarization, and broadcast the stream(s)  of data. The collector mechanism  may also provide an outgoing interface to the dashboard engine for direct (in-process) and indirect, processing that isolates the collector from the engine data path (stream results).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIGS. 13-14","FIG. 14"],"b":["50","32","32","28","54","56","32","120","122","54","124","126","128","56","50","32","50","124","22","110","22","32","50","32"]},"The stream  of data may thus define its origination and syntax. The stream  of data may thus specify its collection method and syntax of the source data  processed by the engine. Each stream  of data may be named and typed, and a group of streams  of data, having a same type classification, may share a single stream provider. Each stream  of data may thus be registered with its provider. Each stream  of data may define the one or more polling intervals  or be on-demand. Each stream  of data may self-represent itself as the plain old JAVA\u00ae objects. Each stream provider may source all streams  of data in its type class and works with any underlying data source(s). The stream provider may be responsible for starting or stopping the stream  of data. The stream provider may obtain any supplemental stream information (e.g., query string), and the stream provider may provides a stream listener to enable cache updates.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["28","32","28","38"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 16"],"b":["32","50","54","54","54"]},"The single file  structure of the widget  may utilize file compression. The widget  may have multiple components that are compressed into the single file  structure. Each file component may be individually compressed and archived within the single file  structure. When the single file  is read, each component file may be individually extracted and decompressed. The widget  may thus have its required components zipped into the single file  structure. The single file  may then unzip and reveal its component files. The single file , for example, may automatically unzip when a logical rule is satisfied. The single file , for example, may automatically bloom to reveal its component files based upon a location or an internal temperature of the client device  and\/or the mashup server .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIGS. 17-18","b":["64","20","130","64","66","28","28","132","32","28","134","50","136","54","56","50","138","34","54","140","34","142"]},"The algorithm continues with . The source data  is integrated into the mashup  according to the single file (Block ). The mashup  is converted into the web page  (Block ). The web page  is sent to the client device  (Block ). The source data  is compared to a threshold value (Block ). When the source data satisfies the threshold value, an alarm is generated (Block ). The alarm is incorporated into the mashup  (Block ) and into the web page  (Block ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 19","FIG. 19"],"b":["300","72","72","300","300","72","70","32","72","22","300","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 20","FIG. 20"],"b":["300","72","302","304","306","308","310","312","314","316","318","300","300","300"]},"Exemplary embodiments may be physically embodied on or in a computer-readable storage medium. This computer-readable medium, for example, may include CD-ROM, DVD, tape, cassette, floppy disk, optical disk, memory card, memory drive, and large-capacity disks. This computer-readable medium, or media, could be distributed to end-subscribers, licensees, and assignees. A computer program product comprises processor-executable instructions for generating mashups, as the above paragraphs explained.","While the exemplary embodiments have been described with respect to various features, aspects, and embodiments, those skilled and unskilled in the art will recognize the exemplary embodiments are not so limited. Other variations, modifications, and alternative embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the exemplary embodiments."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features, aspects, and advantages of the exemplary embodiments are understood when the following Detailed Description is read with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIGS. 2-3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 11-12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 13-14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 17-18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 19-20"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
