---
title: Scaling and parameterizing a controller
abstract: Controller scaling and parameterization are described. Techniques that can be improved by employing the scaling and parameterization include, but are not limited to, controller design, tuning and optimization. The scaling and parameterization methods described here apply to transfer function based controllers, including PID controllers. The parameterization methods also applies to state feedback and state observer based controllers, as well as linear active disturbance rejection controllers. It is emphasized that this abstract is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher or other reader to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the application. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08571691&OS=08571691&RS=08571691
owner: Cleveland State University
number: 08571691
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120720
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","LEXICON","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a Division of application Ser. No. 13\/212,274 filed Aug. 18, 2011, which is a Division of application Ser. No. 10\/351,664 filed Jan. 27, 2003, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 60\/373,404 filed Apr. 8, 2002, the entire contents of all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.","The systems, methods, application programming interfaces (API), graphical user interfaces (GUI), computer readable media, and so on described herein relate generally to controllers and more particularly to scaling and parameterizing controllers, which facilitates improving controller design, tuning, and optimizing.","A feedback (closed-loop) control system , as shown in Prior Art , is widely used to modify the behavior of a physical process, denoted as the plant , so it behaves in a specific desirable way over time. For example, it may be desirable to maintain the speed of a car on a highway as close as possible to 60 miles per hour in spite of possible hills or adverse wind; or it may be desirable to have an aircraft follow a desired altitude, heading and velocity profile independently of wind gusts; or it may be desirable to have the temperature and pressure in a reactor vessel in a chemical process plant maintained at desired levels. All these are being accomplished today by using feedback control, and the above are examples of what automatic control systems are designed to do, without human intervention.","The key component in a feedback control system is the controller , which determines the difference between the output of the plant , (e.g., the temperature) and its desired value and produces a corresponding control signal u (e.g., turning a heater on or off). The goal of controller design is usually to make this difference as small as possible as soon as possible. Today, controllers are employed in a large number of industrial control applications and in areas like robotics, aeronautics, astronautics, motors, motion control, thermal control, and so on.","Classic Controllers:","Classic Control Theory provides a number of techniques an engineer can use in controller design. Existing controllers for linear, time invariant, and single-input single output plants can be categorized into three forms: the proportional\/integral\/derivative (PID) controllers, transfer function based (TFB) controllers, and state feedback (SF) controllers. The PID controller is defined by the equation\n\n\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere u is the control signal and e is the error between the setpoint and the process output being controlled. This type of controller has been employed in engineering and other applications since the early 1920s. It is an error based controller that does not require an explicit mathematical model of the plant. The TFB controller is given in the form of\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"U","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"n","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mi":"d","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}}]}}],"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"p"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":["+","+"],"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mi":"s"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"s"}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"The SF controller can be defined by\n\n\u2003\u2003(4)\n\nand is based on the state space model of the plant:\n\n()=()+(),()=()+()\u2003\u2003(5)\n\nWhen the state x is not accessible, a state observer (SO):\n\n()\u2003\u2003(6)\n\nis often used to find its estimate, {circumflex over (x)}. Here r is the setpoint for the output to follow.\n","In addition to the above controllers, a more practical controller is the recently developed Active Disturbance Rejection Controller (ADRC). Its linear form (LADRC) for a second order plant is introduced below as an illustration. The unique distinction of ADRC is that it is largely independent of the mathematical model of the plant and is therefore better than most controllers in performance and robustness in practical applications.","Linear Activated Disturbance Rejection Controller (LADRC)","Consider an example of controlling a second order plant\n\n\u2003\u2003(7)\n\nwhere y and u are output and input, respectively, and w is an input disturbance. Here both parameters, a and b, are unknown, although there is some knowledge of b, (e.g., b\u2248b, derived from the initial acceleration of y in step response). Rewrite (7) as\n\n+()\u2003\u2003(8)\n\nwhere \u0192=\u2212a{dot over (y)}\u2212by+w+(b\u2212b)u. Here \u0192 is referred to as the generalized disturbance, or disturbance, because it represents both the unknown internal dynamics, \u2212a{dot over (y)}\u2212by+(b\u2212b)u and the external disturbance w(t).\n","If an estimate of \u0192, {circumflex over (\u0192)} can be obtained, then the control law",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"u","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mover":{"mi":"f","mo":"^"}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"0"}},"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"}}}}},"br":{},"sub":"0"},"Thus, rewrite the plant in (8) in state space form as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mn":"1"},{"mi":"x","mn":"2"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"3"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"u"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mn":"3"},"mo":"=","mi":"h"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"=","msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"1"}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"sub":"3","in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["{dot over (x)}=Ax+Bu+Eh ","y=Cz"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"A","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}}},{"mi":"B","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"}}},{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}}]}}},{"mi":"C","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]}}}},{"mi":"E","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"1"}}]}}}],"mo":[",",",",","]}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["\u017c=Az+Bu+L","y\u2212\u0177","\u0177=Cz"]},"which can be reconstructed in software, for example, and L is the observer gain vector, which can be obtained using various methods known in the art like pole placement,\n\n\u03b2\u03b2]\u2003\u2003(12)\n\nwhere [ ]denotes transpose. With the given state observer, the control law can be given as:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"u","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"3"}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"0"}},"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["\u00ff=","z","u","\u2248u","u","=k","r\u2212z","k","z"],"sub":["3","0","0","0","p","1","d","2"]},"Over the years, the advances in control theory provided a number of useful analysis and design tools. As a result, controller design moved from empirical methods (e.g., ad hoc tuning via Ziegler and Nichols tuning tables for PID) to analytical methods (e.g., pole placement). The frequency response method (Bode and Nyquist plots) also facilitated analytical control design.","Conventionally, controllers are individually designed according to design criteria and then individually tuned until they exhibit an acceptable performance. Practicing engineers may design controllers, (e.g., PID) using look-up tables and then tune the controllers using trial and error techniques. But each controller is typically individually designed, tuned, and tested.","Tuning controllers has perplexed engineers. Controllers that are developed based on a mathematical model of the plant usually need their parameters to be adjusted, or \u201ctuned\u201d as they are implemented in hardware and tested. This is because the mathematical model often does not accurately reflect the dynamics of the plant. Determining appropriate control parameters under such circumstances is often problematic, leading to control solutions that are functional but ill-tuned, yielding lost performance and wasted control energy. Additionally, and\/or alternatively, engineers design using analytical (e.g., pole placement) techniques, but once again tune with trial and error techniques. Since many industrial machines and engineering applications are built to be inherently stable, acceptable controllers can be designed and tuned using these conventional techniques, however, acceptable performance may not approach optimal performance.","One example conventional technique for designing a PID controller included obtaining an open-loop response and determining what, if anything, needed to be improved. By way of illustration, the designer would build a candidate system with a feedback loop, guess the initial values of the three gains (e.g., k, k, k) in PID and observe the performance in terms of rise time, steady state error and so on. Then, the designer might modify the proportional gain to improve rise time. Similarly, the designer might add or modify a derivative controller to improve overshoot and an integral controller to eliminate steady state error. Each component would have its own gain that would be individually tuned. Thus, conventional designers often faced choosing three components in a PID controller and individually tuning each component. Furthermore, there could be many more parameters that the design engineer must tune if a TFB or a state feedback state observer (SFSOB) controller is employed.","Another observation of control design is that it is not portable. That is, each control problem is solved individually and its solution cannot be easily modified for another control problem. This means that the tedious design and tuning process must be repeated for each control problem.","Thus, having reviewed controllers, the application now describes example systems and methods related to controllers.","This section presents a simplified summary of methods, systems, computer readable media and so on for scaling and parameterizing controllers to facilitate providing a basic understanding of these items. This summary is not an extensive overview and is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the methods, systems, computer readable media, and so on or to delineate the scope of these items. This summary provides a conceptual introduction in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.","The application describes scaling and parameterizing controllers. With these two techniques, controller designing, tuning, and optimizing can be improved. In one example, systems, methods, and so on described herein facilitate reusing a controller design by scaling a controller from one application to another. This scaling may be available, for example, for applications whose plant differences can be detailed through frequency scale and\/or gain scale. While PID controllers are used as examples, it is to be appreciated that other controllers can benefit from scaling and parameterizing as described herein.","Those familiar with filter design understand that filters may be designed and then scaled for use in analogous applications. Filter designers are versed in the concept of the unit filter which facilitates scaling filters. In example controller scaling techniques, a plant transfer function is first reduced to a unit gain and unit bandwidth (UGUB) form. Then, a known controller for an appropriate UGUB plant is scaled for an analogous plant. Since certain plants share certain characteristics, classes of UGUB plants can be designed for which corresponding classes of scaleable, parameterizable controllers can be designed.","Since certain classes of plants have similar properties, it is possible to frequency scale controllers within classes. For example, an anti-lock brake plant for a passenger car that weighs 2000 pounds may share a number of characteristics with an anti-lock brake plant for a passenger car that weighs 2500 pounds. Thus, if a UGUB plant can be designed for this class of cars, then a frequency scaleable controller can also be designed for the class of plants. Then, once a controller has been selected and engineered for a member of the class (e.g., the 2000 pound car), it becomes a known controller from which other analogous controllers can be designed for other similar cars (e.g., the 2500 pound car) using frequency scaling.","This scaling method makes a controller \u201cportable\u201d. That is a single controller can be used as the \u201cseed\u201d to generate controllers for a large number of different plants that are similar in nature. The remaining question concerns how to account for differences in design requirements. Controller parameterization addresses this issue. The example parameterization techniques described herein make controller coefficients functions of a single design parameter, namely the crossover frequency (also known as the bandwidth). In doing so, the controller can be tuned for different design requirements, which is primarily reflected in the bandwidth requirement.","The combination of scaling and parameterization methods means that an existing controller (including PID, TFB, and SFSOB) can be scaled for different plants and then, through the adjustment of one parameter, changed to meet different performance requirements that are unique in different applications.","Certain illustrative example methods, systems, computer readable media and so on are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These examples are indicative, however, of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the methods, systems, computer readable media and so on may be employed and thus are intended to be inclusive of equivalents. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.","As used in this application, the term \u201ccomputer component\u201d refers to a computer-related entity, either hardware, firmware, software, a combination thereof, or software in execution. For example, a computer component can be, but is not limited to being, a process running on a processor, a processor, an object, an executable, a thread of execution, a program and a computer. By way of illustration, both an application running on a server and the server can be computer components. One or more computer components can reside within a process and\/or thread of execution and a computer component can be localized on one computer and\/or distributed between two or more computers.","\u201cComputer communications\u201d, as used herein, refers to a communication between two or more computers and can be, for example, a network transfer, a file transfer, an applet transfer, an email, a hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) message, a datagram, an object transfer, a binary large object (BLOB) transfer, and so on. A computer communication can occur across, for example, a wireless system (e.g., IEEE 802.11), an Ethernet system (e.g., IEEE 802.3), a token ring system (e.g., IEEE 802.5), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a point-to-point system, a circuit switching system, a packet switching system, and so on.","\u201cLogic\u201d, as used herein, includes but is not limited to hardware, fhinware, software and\/or combinations of each to perform a function(s) or an action(s). For example, based on a desired application or needs, logic may include a software controlled microprocessor, discrete logic such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or other programmed logic device. Logic may also be fully embodied as software.","An \u201coperable connection\u201d is one in which signals and\/or actual communication flow and\/Or logical communication flow may be sent and\/or received. Usually, an operable connection includes a physical interface, an electrical interface, and\/or a data interface, but it is to be noted that an operable connection may consist of differing combinations of these or other types of connections sufficient to allow operable control.","\u201cSignal\u201d, as used herein, includes but is not limited to one or more electrical or optical signals, analog or digital, one or more computer instructions, a bit or bit stream, or the like.","\u201cSoftware\u201d, as used herein, includes but is not limited to, one or more computer readable and\/or executable instructions that cause a computer or other electronic device to perform functions, actions and\/or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms like routines, algorithms, modules, methods, threads, and\/or programs. Software may also be implemented in a variety of executable and\/or loadable forms including, but not limited to, a stand-alone program, a function call (local and\/or remote), a servelet, an applet, instructions stored in a memory, part of an operating system or browser, and the like. It is to be appreciated that the computer readable and\/or executable instructions can be located in one computer component and\/or distributed between two or more communicating, co-operating, and\/or parallel processing computer components and thus can be loaded and\/or executed in serial, parallel, massively parallel and other manners. It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the foini of software may be dependent on, for example, requirements of a desired application, the environment in which it runs, and\/or the desires of a designer\/programmer or the like.","\u201cData store\u201d, as used herein, refers to a physical and\/or logical entity that can store data. A data store may be, for example, a database, a table, a file, a list, a queue, a heap, and so on. A data store may reside in one logical and\/or physical entity and\/or may be distributed between two or more logical and\/or physical entities.","To the extent that the term \u201cincludes\u201d is employed in the detailed description or the claims, it is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term \u201ccomprising\u201d as that term is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.","To the extent that the term \u201cor\u201d is employed in the claims (e.g., A or B) it is intended to mean \u201cA or B or both\u201d. When the author intends to indicate \u201conly A or B but not both\u201d, then the author will employ the term \u201cA or B but not both\u201d. Thus, use of the term \u201cor\u201d in the claims is the inclusive, and not the exclusive, use. See BA. G, A DMLU624 (2d Ed. 1995).","Example methods, systems, computer media, and so on are now described with reference to the drawings, where like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to facilitate thoroughly understanding the methods, systems, computer readable media, and so on. It may be evident, however, that the methods, systems and so on can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to simplify description.","Scaling:","Controllers typically are not scalable and thus are not portable between applications. However, controllers can be made portable via scaling as described in the example systems and methods provided herein. In general, a plant mathematically represented by a transfer function G(s), (where s is the Laplace Transform variable) can be scaled according to:\n\n()=()\u2003\u2003(16)\n\nwhere \u03c9is the plant frequency scale and k is the gain scale, to represent a large number of plants that differ from the original plant by a frequency scale, \u03c9, and a gain scale, k.\n","Then, a corresponding controller G(s) for the plant G(s) can be scaled according to:\n\n()=(1)().\u2003\u2003(17).\n","Consider a unit feedback control system  with the plant G(s)  and controller G(s) , as shown in . Assume that G(s)  was designed with desired command following, disturbance rejection, noise rejection, and stability robustness. Now, consider a similar class of plants kG(s\/\u03c9). For given \u03c9, using example systems and methods described herein, a suitable controller can be produced through frequency scaling. Thus define \u03c9as the frequency scale and k as the gain scale of the plant G(s\/\u03c9) with respect to\n\n().\u2003\u2003(18)\n\nThen\n\n()=(1)().\u2003\u2003(19)\n","Referring to , an example system  that employs frequency scaling is illustrated. The system  includes a controller identifier  that can identify a known controller associated with controlling a known plant. The controller may have one or more scaleable parameters (e.g., frequency, gains) that facilitate scaling the controller. The controller identifier  may access a controller information data store  and\/or a plant information data store  to facilitate characterizing one or more properties of the known controller. By way of illustration, the controller identifier  may identify the frequency scale of the controller (\u03c9) and\/or the frequency scale (\u03c9) and transfer function (s) of a plant controlled by the known controller.","The controller information data store  may store, for example, controller class information and\/or information concerning scaleable controller parameters. Similarly, the plant data store Q may store, for example, plant information like transfer function shape, frequency scale, and so on.","The system  may also include a controller scaler  that produces a scaled controller from the identified scaleable parameter. The scaler  may make scaling decisions based, for example, on information in the controller information data store  (e.g., controller class, scaleable parameters, frequency scale), information in the plant information data store  (e.g. plant class, plant transfer function, frequency scale), and so on.","While illustrated as two separate entities, it is to be appreciated that the identifier  and scaler  could be implemented in a single computer component and\/or as two or more distributed, communicating, co-operating computer components. Thus, the entities illustrated in  may communicate through computer communications using signals, carrier waves, data packets, and so on. Similarly, while illustrated as two separate data stores, the controller information data store  and the plant information data store  may be implemented as a single data store and\/or distributed between two or more communicating, co-operating data stores.","Aspects of controller scaling can be related to filter design. In filter design, with the bandwidth, the pass band, and stop band requirements given, filter design is straight forward. An example filter design method includes finding a unit bandwidth filter, such as an nth order Chebeshev filter H(s), that meets the pass band and stop band specifications and then frequency scaling the filter as H(s\/\u03c9) to achieve a bandwidth of \u03c9.","Revisiting the system  in , to facilitate understanding frequency scaling and time scaling as related to controllers, denote \u03c9as the frequency scale of the plant G(s\/\u03c9) with respect to G(s) , and \u03c4=1\/\u03c9, the corresponding time scale. Then denote k as the gain scale of the plant kG(s) with respect to G(s) . With these definitions in hand, differences in example industrial control problems can be described in terms of the frequency and gain scales. For example, temperature processes with different time constants (in first order transfer functions), motion control problems with different inertias, motor sizes, frictions, and the like can be described in terms of the defined frequency and gain scales.","These scales facilitate paying less attention to differences between controllers and applications and more attention to a generic solution for a class of problems because using the scales facilitates reducing linear time invariant plants, proper and without a finite zero, to one of the following example forms:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"1","mi":"s"},{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03be","s"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mn":"1"}},{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"mn":"1","msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"}},{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"3"},"mo":["+","+","+"],"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03be","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03be","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"s"}],"mn":"1"}}],"mo":[",",",",",",",",",",","],"mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"22"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["p","p","p"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"23.2","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1.41"}}}},{"mn":"11.67","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","mn":"1.41"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","mn":"1.41"},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"23"}}]}}}}},"Equation (22) describes many example industrial control problems that can be approximated by a first order or a second order transfer function response. Additionally, equation (22) can be appended by terms like:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"},{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["\u03be","s"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mn":"1"}]},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03be","z"]},"mi":"s"},"mn":"1"},{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"3"},"mo":["+","+","+"],"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"\u03be","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03be","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"s"}],"mn":"1"}]}],"mo":[",",","],"mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"24"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":[{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","rz"]}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03be","z"]},"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","rz"]}}},"mn":"1"},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","rp"]}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03be","p"]},"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","rp"]}}},"mn":"1"}]}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"mrow":{"mi":"scaling","mo":["\u2062","\u21d3","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mtext":{}}],"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["s","m"]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03be","z"]},"mfrac":{"mi":["s","m"]}},"mn":"1"},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["s","n"]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03be","p"]},"mfrac":{"mi":["s","n"]}},"mn":"1"}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"8.3em","height":"8.3ex"}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"25"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["p","p","rz","p","p","p","p"]},"Assume G(s) is a stabilizing controller for plant G(s), and the loop gain crossover frequency is \u03c9, then the controller\n\n()=()\/\u2003\u2003(26)\n\nwill stabilize the plant (s)=kG(s\/\u03c9). The new controller new loop gain\n\n()=()()\u2003\u2003(27)\n\nwill have a bandwidth of \u03c9\u03c9, and substantially the same stability margins of\n\n()=()()\n\nsince\n\n()=().\n\nNote that the new closed-loop system has substantially the same frequency response shape as the original system except that it is shifted by \u03c9. Thus, feedback control properties like bandwidth, disturbance and noise rejection are retained, as is the stability robustness, from the previous design, except that frequency ranges are shifted by \u03c9.\n","Now that controller scaling has been described, PID scaling can be addressed.","According to the frequency scale principle discussed above, and assuming the original controller for G(s) is a PID, e.g.,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":["+","+"],"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mi":"s"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"s"}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"28"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["p","p"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]},"mi":"s"}},{"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}}}]}},"mo":"\/","mi":"k"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"29"}}]}}}},"br":{},"o":["k","k","k"],"sub":["p","l","d "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["k","_"]},"mi":"p"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["k","_"]},"mi":"i"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["k","i"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["k","_"]},"mi":"d"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}}}}],"mo":[",",","]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"30"}}]}}}}},"To demonstrate the practical application and tangible results possible from the method described above, in the following example, consider a plant that has a transfer function of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["G","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mi":"s","mn":"1"}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["p","i","d"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["G","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"s","mn":"10"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mfrac":{"mi":"s","mn":"10"},"mn":"1"}}}}},"br":{},"o":["k","k","k"],"sub":["p","i","d"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["G","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":"s","mn":"10"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mfrac":{"mi":"s","mn":"10"},"mn":"1"}}}}},"br":{}},"In one example, the controller is a PID controller. The PID controller may have a plant frequency scale \u03c9as a scaleable parameter. In another example, the method includes producing the scaled controller. For example, a computer component may be programmed to perform the frequency scaled controlling. Additionally, computer executable portions of the method may be stored on a computer readable medium and\/or be transmitted between computer components by, for example, carrier waves encoding computer executable instructions.","In view of the exemplary systems shown and described below, example methodologies that are implemented will be better appreciated with reference to the flow diagrams of ,  and . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks, it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the blocks, as some blocks can occur in different orders and\/or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described. Moreover, less than all the illustrated blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Furthermore, additional and\/or alternative methodologies can employ additional, not illustrated blocks. In one example, methodologies are implemented as computer executable instructions and\/or operations, stored on computer readable media including, but not limited to an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disk (DVD), a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), a programmable read only memory (PROM), an electronically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM), a disk, a carrier wave, and a memory stick.","In the flow diagrams, rectangular blocks denote \u201cprocessing blocks\u201d that may be implemented, for example, in software. Similarly, the diamond shaped blocks denote \u201cdecision blocks\u201d or \u201cflow control blocks\u201d that may also be implemented, for example, in software. Alternatively, and\/or additionally, the processing and decision blocks can be implemented in functionally equivalent circuits like a digital signal processor (DSP), an ASIC, and the like.","A flow diagram does not depict syntax for any particular programming language, methodology, or style (e.g., procedural, object-oriented). Rather, a flow diagram illustrates functional information one skilled in the art may employ to program software, design circuits, and so on. It is to be appreciated that in some examples, program elements like temporary variables, initialization of loops and variables, routine loops, and so on are not shown.","Turning to , a flowchart for an example method  for producing a controller is illustrated. The method  includes, at , identifying a controller G(s) that stabilizes a plant G(s) where the controller has a frequency \u03c9and, at , producing a controller (s) by scaling the controller G(s) according to (s)=G(s\/\u03c9)\/k, where the controller (s) will stabilize the plant (s)=kG(s\/\u03c9), where \u03c9is the frequency scale of the plant G(s\/\u03c9), and where k is the gain scale of the plant kG(s). In one example, the controller is a PID controller of the form",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":["+","+"],"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mi":"s"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"s"}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["p ","i ","d "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["k","i"]},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]},"mi":"s"}},{"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}}}]}},{"mi":"k","mo":"."}],"mo":"\/"}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"o":["k","k","k"],"sub":["p","i","d ","p","i","d "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["k","_"]},"mi":"p"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["k","_"]},"mi":"i"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["k","i"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mi":"k"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["k","_"]},"mi":"d"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]},"mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}}},"mo":"."}}],"mo":[",",","]}}},"br":{}},"Applying a unit step function as the set point, the responses of an original controller and a scaled controller are shown in , demonstrating that the response of the scaled controller is substantially the same as the response of the original controller, but scaled by \u03c4=1\/\u03c9. The gain margins of both systems are substantially infinite and the phase margins are both approximately 82.372 degrees. The 0 dB crossover frequency for both systems are 2.3935 and 23.935 r\/s, respectively. Thus, the PID scaled by the example method is demonstrably appropriate for the application.","While the method described above concerned linear PIDs, it is to be appreciated that the method can also be applied to scaling nonlinear PIDs. For example, PID performance can be improved by using nonlinear gains in place of the linear ones. For example,\n\n()+()()\u2003\u2003(31)\n\nwhere g(e), g(e), and g(e) are nonlinear functions. The non-linear PLDs can be denoted NPID. Nonlinearities are selected so that the proportional control is more sensitive to small errors, the integral control is limited to the small error region\u2014which leads to significant reduction in the associate phase lag\u2014and the differential control is limited to a large error region, which reduces its sensitivity to the poor signal to noise ratio when the response reaches steady state and the error is small.\n","The NPID retains the simplicity of PID and the intuitive tuning. The same gain scaling formula (30) will also apply to the NPID controller when the plant changes from G(s) to kG(s\/\u03c9).","Scaling facilitates concentrating on normalized control problems like those defined in (22). This facilitates selecting an appropriate controller for an individual problem by using the scaling formula in (26) and the related systems and methods that produce tangible, results (e.g., scaled controller). This further facilitates focusing on the fundamentals of control, like basic assumptions, requirements, and limitations. Thus, the example systems, methods, and so on described herein concerning scaling and parameterization can be employed to facilitate optimizing individual solutions given the physical constraints of a problem.","Parameterization","Working with controllers can be simplified if they can be described in terms of a smaller set of parameters than is conventionally possible. Typically, a controller (and possibly an observer) may have many (e.g. 15) parameters. The systems and methods described herein concerning parameterization facilitate describing a controller in terms of a single parameter. In one example, controller parameterization concerns making controller parameters functions of a single variable, the controller bandwidth \u03c9.","Considering the normalized plants in (22) and assuming desired closed-loop transfer functions are:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]},"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"],"mn":"2"},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}},"mn":"2"}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"],"mn":"3"},"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}},{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}]}}],"mo":[",",",",","],"mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"32"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"c"},"Applying pole-placement design to the first and second order plants in (22), a set of example \u03c9parameterized controllers are obtained and shown in Table I. Information concerning the plants and the related controllers can be stored, for example, in a data store.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE I"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Examples of \u03c9-parameterized controllers"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["G(s)",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}},{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"s"}}}},{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03bes"},"mn":"1"}}}}},{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}}},{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00025","num":"00025"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mn":"1","msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"}}}}}]},{"entry":{}},{"entry":["G(s, \u03c9)",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00026","num":"00026"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]},"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mi":"s"}}}},"\u03c9",{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00027","num":"00027"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03bes"},"mn":"1"},{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}}}}]}}}}},{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00028","num":"00028"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}},{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}}]}}}},{"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00029","num":"00029"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"s"},{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}}]}}}}]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Loop shaping design can also be parameterized. Loop-shaping refers to manipulating the loop gain frequency response, L(j\u03c9)=G(j\u03c9)G(j\u03c9), as a control design tool. One example loop-shaping method includes converting design specifications to loop gain constraints, as shown in  and finding a controller G(j\u03c9) to meet the specifications.","As an example of loop shaping, considering the plants of the form G(s), in Table I, the desired loop gain can be characterized as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00030","num":"00030"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"L","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"1"}},"mi":"s"}},"mi":"m"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"1","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mi":"n"}}]}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"33"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"sub":["c ","1","c","2","c","1 ","2 ","1","c","2","c"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":[",m\u2267","n\u2267"],"figref":"FIG. 7"},"Once appropriate loop gain constraints are derived and the corresponding lowest order L(s) in (33) is selected, the controller can be determined from",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00031","num":"00031"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"1"}},"mi":"s"}},"mi":"m"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"1","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mi":"n"}}],"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["G","p"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"36"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00032","num":"00032"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},{"mn":"1","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mi":"n"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["G","p"],"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mi":"proper","mo":"."}],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"is"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"37"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"p","sup":"\u22121"},"A compromise between \u03c9and the phase margin can be made by adjusting \u03c9upwards, which will improve the low frequency properties at the cost of reducing phase margin. A similar compromise can be made between phase margin and \u03c9.","Turning to , an example method  for scaling a controller is illustrated. The method  includes, at , identifying a known controller in a controller class where the known controller controls a first plant. The method  also includes, at , identifying a scaleable parameter for the known controller. At , the method  includes identifying a desired controller in the controller class, where the desired controller controls a second, frequency related plant and at , establishing the frequency relation between the known controller and the desired controller. At , the method  scales the known controller to the desired controller by scaling the scaleable parameter based, at least in part, on the relation between the known controller and the desired controller.","Practical Optimization Based on a Hybrid Scaling and Parameterization Method","Practical controller optimization concerns obtaining optimal performance out of existing hardware and software given physical constraints. Practical controller optimization is measured by performance measurements including, but not limited to, command following quickness (a.k.a. settling time), accuracy (transient and steady state errors), and disturbance rejection ability (e.g., attenuation magnitude and frequency range). Example physical constraints include, but are not limited to, sampling and loop update rate, sensor noise, plant dynamic uncertainties, saturation limit, and actuation signal smoothness requirements.","Conventional tuning relies, for example, on minimizing a cost function like Hand However, conventional cost functions may not comprehensively reflect the realities of control engineering, and may, therefore, lead to suboptimal tuning. For example, one common cost function is mathematically attractive but can lead to suboptimal controller tuning. Thus, optimizing other criteria, like \u03c9are considered.","A typical industrial control application involves a stable single-input single-output (SISO) plant, where the output represents a measurable process variable to be regulated and the input represents the control actuation that has a certain dynamic relationship to the output. This relationship is usually nonlinear and unknown, although a linear approximation can be obtained at an operating point via the plant response to a particular input excitation, like a step change.","Evaluating performance measurements in light of physical limitations yields the fact that they benefit from maximum controller bandwidth \u03c9. If poles are placed in the same location, then \u03c9can become the single item to tune. Thus, practical PID optimization can be achieved with single parameter tuning. For example, in manufacturing, a design objective for an assembly line may be to make it run as fast as possible while minimizing the down time for maintenance and trouble shooting. Similarly, in servo design for a computer hard disk drive, a design objective may be to make the read\/write head position follow the setpoint as fast as possible while maintaining extremely high accuracy. In automobile anti-lock brake control design, a design objective may be to have the wheel speed follow a desired speed as closely as possible to achieve minimum braking distance.","In the three examples, the design goal can be translated to maximizing controller bandwidth \u03c9. There are other industrial control examples that lead to the same conclusion. Thus, \u03c9maximization appears to be a useful criterion for practical optimality. Furthermore, unlike purely mathematical optimization techniques, \u03c9optimization has real world applicability because it is limited by physical constraints. For example, sending \u03c9to infinity may be impractical because it may cause a resulting signal to vary unacceptably.","As an example of how physical limitations may affect \u03c9optimization, consider digital control apparatus that have a maximum sampling rate and a maximum loop update rate. The maximum sampling rate is a hardware limit associated with the Analog to Digital Converter (ADC) and the maximum loop update rate is software limit related to central processing unit (CPU) speed and the control algorithm complexity. Typically, computation speeds outpace sampling rates and therefore only the sampling rate limitation is considered.","As another example, measurement noise may also be considered when examining the physical limitations of \u03c9optimization. For example, the \u03c9is limited to the frequency range where the accurate measurement of the process variable can be obtained. Outside of this range, the noise can be filtered using either analog or digital filters.","Plant dynamic uncertainty may also be considered when examining the physical limitations of \u03c9optimization. Conventional control design is based on a mathematical description of the plant, which may only be reliable in a low frequency range. Some physical plants exhibit erratic phase distortions and nonlinear behaviors at a relative high frequency range. The controller bandwidth is therefore limited to the low frequency range where the plant is well behaved and predictable. To safeguard the system from instability, the loop gain is reduced where the plant is uncertain. Thus, maximizing the bandwidth safely amounts to expanding the effective (high gain) control to the edge of frequency range where the behavior of the plant is well known.","Similarly, actuator saturation and smoothness may also affect design. Although using transient profile helps to decouple bandwidth design and the transient requirement, limitations in the actuator like saturation, nonlinearities like backlash and hysteresis, limits on rate of change, smoothness requirements based on wear and tear considerations, and so on may affect the design. For example, in a motion control application with a significant backlash problem in the gearbox, excessively high bandwidth will result in a chattering gearbox and, very likely, premature breakdown. Thus, \u03c9optimization, because it considers physical limitations like sampling rate, loop update rate, plant uncertainty, actuator saturation, and so on, may produce improved performance.","In one controller optimization example, assume that the plant is minimum phase, (e.g., its poles and zeros are in the left half plane), that the plant transfer function is given, that the \u03c9parameterized controllers are known and available in form of Table I, that a transient profile is defined according to the transient response specifications, and that a simulator  of closed-loop control system as shown in  is available. It is to be appreciated that the closed loop control system simulator  can be, for example, hardware, software or a combination of both. In one example, the simulator incorporates limiting factors including, but not limited to, sensor and quantization noises, sampling disturbances, actuator limits, and the like.","With these assumptions, one example design method then includes, determining frequency and gain scales, w, and k from the given plant transfer function. The method also includes, based on the design specification, determining the type of controller required from, for example, Table I. The method also includes selecting the G(s, \u03c9) corresponding to the scaled plant in the form of Table I. The method also includes scaling the controller to",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0120"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00033","num":"00033"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"k"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["G","c"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}},"mo":",","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}}}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":["c","p","c","c ","c "],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["a. Control signal becomes too noisy and\/or too uneven, or","b. Indication of instability (oscillatory behavior)"]}}}},"Consider an example motion control test bed for which the mathematical model of the motion system is\n\n=(\u22121.4123.27)+23.2\u2003\u2003(38)\n\nwhere y is the output position, u is the control voltage sent to the power amplifier that drives the motor, and Tis the torque disturbance. An example design objective for the example system could be rotating the load one revolution in one second with no overshoot. Thus, the physical characteristics of the example control problem are:\n","1) |u|<3.5 volt,","2) sampling rate=1 kHz,","3) sensor noise is 0.1% white noise,","4) torque disturbance up to 10% of the maximum torque,","5) smooth control signal.","The plant transfer function is",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0129"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00034","num":"00034"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["G","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}},{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"11.67","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"and","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}},{"mn":"1.41","mo":"."}],"mo":"="}}],"mo":","}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0130"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00035","num":"00035"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["G","_"]},"mi":"p"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"="}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":["u=k","r\u2212y","k","y","k","k"],"sub":["p","d","p","c","d","c"],"sup":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0131"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00036","num":"00036"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["G","cl"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"s"}},{"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"],"mn":"2"},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":"p"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0131","num":"0132"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00037","num":"00037"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"],"mn":"2"},"mi":"k"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":[".086","and"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"],"mn":"2"},"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":"k","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":".061","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"."}}}],"mo":"="}}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0133"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00038","num":"00038"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mi":"s","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":"s","mrow":{"mn":"10","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","c"]}}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["c ","c "],"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 10"]},"As described in the Background section, the State Feedback (SF) controller\n\n\u2003\u2003(4)\n\nis based on the state space model of the plant:\n\n()=()+(),()=()+()\u2003\u2003(5)\n\nWhen the state x is not accessible, a state observer (SO):\n\n()\u2003\u2003(6)\n\nis often used to find its estimate, {circumflex over (x)}. Here r is the setpoint for the output to follow. The state feedback gain K and the observer gain L are determined from the equations:\n\neig()=\u03bb() and eig()=\u03bb()\n\nwhere \u03bb(s) and \u03bb(s) are polynomials of s that are chosen by the designer. Usually the K and L have many parameters and are hard to tune.\n","The parameterization of state feedback and state observer gains are achieved by making\n\n\u03bb()=()and \u03bb()=()\n\nwhere \u03c9and \u03c9are bandwidth of the state feedback system and the state observer, respectively, and n is the order of the system. This simplifies tuning since parameters in K and L are now functions of \u03c9and \u03c9, respectively.\n\nParameterization of Linear Active Disturbance Rejection Controller (LADRC) for a Second Order Plant\n","Some controllers are associated with observers. Conventionally, second order systems with controllers and observers may have a large number (e.g., 15) tunable features in each of the controller and observer. Thus, while a design method like the Hann method is conceptually viable, its practical implementation is difficult because of tuning issues. As a consequence of the scaling and parameterization described herein, observer based systems can be constructed and tuned using two parameters, observer bandwidth (\u03c9) and controller bandwidth (\u03c9).","State observers provide information on the internal states of plants. State observers also function as noise filters. A state observer design principle concerns how fast the observer should track the states, (e.g., what should its bandwidth be). The closed-loop observer, or the correction term L(y\u2212\u0177) in particular, accommodates unknown initial states, uncertainties in parameters, and disturbances. Whether an observer can meet the control requirements is largely dependent on how fast the observer can track the states and, in case of ESO, the disturbance \u0192(t,x,x,w). Generally speaking, faster observers are preferred. Common limiting factors in observer design include, but are not limited to dependency on the state space model of the plant, sensor noise, and fixed sampling rate.","Dependency on the state space model can limit an application to situations where a model is available. It also makes the observer sensitive to the inaccuracies of the model and the plant dynamic changes. The sensor noise level is hardware dependent, but it is reasonable to assume it is a white noise with the peak value 0.1% to 1% of the output. The observer bandwidth can be selected so that there is no significant oscillation in its states due to noises. A state observer is a closed-loop system by itself and the sampling rate has similar effects on the state observer performance as it does on feedback control. Thus, an example model independent state observer system is described.","Observers are typically based on mathematical models. Example systems and methods described herein can employ a \u201cmodel independent\u201d observer as illustrated in . For example a plant  may have a controller  and an observer . The controller  may be implemented as a computer component and thus may be programmatically tunable. Similarly, the observer  may be implemented as a computer, component and thus may have scaleable parameters that can be scaled programmatically. Furthermore, using analogous scaling and parameterizing as described herein, the parameters of the observer  can be reduced to \u03c9. Therefore, overall optimizing of the system  reduces to tuning \u03c9and \u03c9.","Consider a simple example for controlling a second order plant\n\n\u2003\u2003(39)\n\nwhere y and u are output and input, respectively, and w is an input disturbance. Here both parameters, a and b, are unknown, although there is some knowledge of b, (e.g., b\u2248b, derived from the initial acceleration of y in step response). Rewrite (39) as\n\n+()\u2003\u2003(40)\n\nwhere \u0192=\u2212a{dot over (y)}\u2212by+w+(b\u2212b)u. Here \u0192 is referred to as the generalized disturbance, or disturbance, because it represents both the unknown internal dynamics, \u2212a{dot over (y)}\u2212by+(b\u2212b)u and the external disturbance w(t).\n","If an estimate of \u0192; {circumflex over (\u0192)} can be obtained, then the control law",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0142"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00039","num":"00039"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"u","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mover":{"mi":"f","mo":"^"}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"0"}},"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"}}}}},"br":{},"sub":"0 "},"Thus, rewrite the plant in (40) in state space form as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0144"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00040","num":"00040"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mn":"1"},{"mi":"x","mn":"2"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"3"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"u"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mn":"3"},"mo":"=","mi":"h"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"=","msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"1"}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"41"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"sub":"3","in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["{dot over (x)}=Ax+Bu+Eh ","y=Cz"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0145"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00041","num":"00041"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"A","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}}},{"mi":"B","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"}}},{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}}]}}},{"mi":"C","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]}}}},{"mi":"E","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"0"}},{"mtd":{"mn":"1"}}]}}}],"mo":[",",",",","]}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["\u017c=Az+Bu+L","y\u2212\u0177","\u0177=Cz "]},"which can be reconstructed in software, for example, and L is the observer gain vector, which can be obtained using various methods known in the art like pole placement,\n\n\u03b2\u03b2]\u2003\u2003(44)\n\nwhere [ ]denotes transpose. With the given state observer, the control law can be given as:\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0146","num":"0147"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00042","num":"00042"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"u","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"3"}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"0"}},"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"45"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["\u00ff","\u0192\u2212z","u","\u2248u","u","=k","r\u2212z","k","z"],"sub":["3","0","0","0","p","1","a","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0147","num":"0148"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00043","num":"00043"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["G","cl"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"},"mo":["+","+"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":"d","mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"s"},"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"48"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["k","k"],"sub":["d","c ","p","c","c ","d","2","d","2"],"sup":"2"},"This example illustrates that disturbance observer based PD control achieves zero steady state error without using the integral part of a PID controller. The example also illustrates that the design is model independent in that the design relies on the approximate value of b in (39). The example also illustrates that the combined effects of the unknown disturbance and the internal dynamics are treated as a generalized disturbance. By augmenting the observer to include an extra state, it is actively estimated and canceled out, thereby achieving active disturbance rejection. This LESO based control scheme is referred to as linear active disturbance rejection control (LADRC) because the disturbance, both internal and external, represented by \u0192, is actively estimated and eliminated.","The stability of controllers can also be examined. Let e=x\u2212z, i=1, 2, 3. Combine equation (43) and (44) and subtract the combination from (42). Thus, the error equation can be written:\n\n\u2003\u2003(50)\n\nwhere\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0150","num":"0151"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00044","num":"00044"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["A","e"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["A","LC"],"mo":"-"},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"1"}}},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"2"}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"3"}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}}],"mo":"="}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["e ","1","2","3"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["s","s","s","s+\u03b2"],"sup":["3","2"]},"The LADRC design from (43) to (46) yields a BIBO stable closed-loop system if the observer in (43) and (44) and the feedback control law (46) for the double integrator are stable, respectively. This is shown by combing equations (45) and (47) into a state feedback form of u=(1\/b)[\u2212k\u2212k\u22121]z=Fz, where F=(1\/b)[\u2212k\u2212k\u22121]. Thus, the closed-loop system can be represented by the state-space equation of",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0153"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00045","num":"00045"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."}}},{"mtd":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mi":"A"},{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["B","_"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"F"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"LC"},{"mrow":{"mi":["A","LC"],"mo":["-","+"],"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["B","_"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"F"}}}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"x"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"z"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mover":{"mi":["B","_"]}},{"mi":"E"}]}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mover":{"mi":["B","_"]}},{"mn":"0"}]}}}}}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"r"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"h"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"52"}}]}}}},"br":{},"o":"B","sub":"0"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0154"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00046","num":"00046"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"eig","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mi":"A"},{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["B","_"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"F"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"LC"},{"mrow":{"mi":["A","LC"],"mo":["-","+"],"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["B","_"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"F"}}}]}]}}}},{"mi":"eig","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"A","mo":"+","mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["B","_"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"F"}}},{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["B","_"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"F"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mi":["A","LC"],"mo":"-"}}]}]}}}}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"eig","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["A","BF"],"mo":"="}}},{"mi":"eig","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["A","LC"],"mo":"-"}}}],"mo":"\u22c3"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["roots","of"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":["k","d"]},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"s"}],"mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]}}},"mo":"\u22c3"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":{},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":["roots","of"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"3"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"}},{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"s","mn":"2"}}],"mo":["+","+","+"],"msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"3"}}}}}}]}}}},"Since r is the bounded reference signal, a nontrivial condition on the plant is that h={dot over (\u0192)} is bounded. In other words, the disturbance \u0192 must be differentiable.","Observer Bandwidth Parameterization","\u03c9parameterization refers to parameterizing the ESO on observer bandwidth \u03c9. Consider a plant (42) that has three poles at the origin. The related observer will be less sensitive to noises if the observer gains in (44) are small for a given \u03c9. But observer gains are proportional to the distance for the plant poles to those of the observer. Thus the three observer poles should be placed at \u2212\u03c9, or equivalently,\n\n\u03bb()=+\u03b2+\u03b2=()\u2003\u2003(53)\n\nThat is\n\n\u03b2=3\u03c9,\u03b2=3\u03c9,\u03b2=\u03c9\u2003\u2003(54)\n","It is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that equations (53) and (54) are extendable to nth order ESO. Similarly, the parameterization method can be extended to the Luenberger Observer for arbitrary A, B, and C matrices, by obtaining {\u0100, , } as observable canonical form of {A,B,C}, determining the observer gain, , so that the poles of the observer are at \u2212\u03c9and using the inverse state transformation to obtain the observer gain, L, for {A,B,C}. The parameters in L are functions of \u03c9. One example procedure for \u03c9optimization based design is now described.","Given tolerable noise thresholds in the observer states, increase \u03c9until at least one of the thresholds is about to be reached or the observer states become oscillatory due to sampling delay. In general, the faster the ESO, the faster the disturbance is observed and cancelled by the control law.","A relationship between \u03c9and \u03c9can be examined. One example relationship is\n\n\u03c9\u22483\u24235\u03c9\u2003\u2003(55)\n","Equation (55) applies to a state feedback control system where \u03c9is determined based on transient response requirements like the settling time specification. Using a transient profile instead of a step command facilitates more aggressive control design. In this example there are two bandwidths to consider, the actual control loop bandwidth \u03c9and the equivalent bandwidth of the transient profile, \u03c9. Part of the design procedure concerns selecting which of the two to use in (55). Since the observer is evaluated on how closely it tracks the states and is more indicative than \u03c9on how fast the plant states move, is the better choice, although it is to be appreciated that either can be employed. Furthermore, taking other design issues like the sampling delay into consideration, a more appropriate minimum \u03c9is found through simulation and experimentation as\n\n\u03c9\u22485\u242310\u03c9\u2003\u2003(56)\n","An example for optimizing LADRC is now presented. One example LADRC design and optimization method includes designing a parameterized LESO and feedback control law where \u03c9and \u03c9are the design parameters. The method also includes designing a transient profile with the equivalent bandwidth of and selecting an \u03c9from (56). The method then includes setting \u03c9=\u03c9and simulating and\/or testing the LADRC in a simulator. The method also includes incrementally increasing \u03c9and \u03c9by the same amount until the noise levels and\/or oscillations in the control signal and output exceed the tolerance. The method also includes incrementally increasing or decreasing \u03c9and \u03c9individually, if necessary, to make trade-offs between different design considerations like the maximum error during the transient period, the disturbance attenuation, and the magnitude and smoothness of the controller.","In one example, the simulation and\/or testing may not yield satisfactory results if the transient design specification described by is untenable due to noise and\/or sampling limitations. In this case, control goals can be lowered by reducing and therefore \u03c9and \u03c9. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that this approach can be extended to Luenbergtate observer based state feedback design.","By way of illustration, reconsider the control problem example associated with equations (32), but apply the LADRC in (43) to (48). Note that b=23.2 for this problem, but to make the design realistic, assume the designer's estimate of b is b=40. Now rewrite the plant differential equation (38) as\n\n(\u22121.4123.2)+(23.2\u221240)4040\n\nThe LESO is\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0163","num":"0164"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00047","num":"00047"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"3"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","o"]}}},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"3"},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","o"],"mn":"2"}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"-","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","o"],"mn":"3"}}},{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"z"},{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","o"]}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"40"},{"mrow":{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","o"],"mn":"2"}}}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","o"],"mn":"3"}}]}]}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mi":"u"}},{"mtd":{"mi":"y"}}]}}],"mo":"\u2061"}],"mo":"+"}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["z","\u2192y,z","\u2192{dot over (y)}, ","z","{dot over (y)}+","T","u","t\u2192\u221e"],"sub":["1","2","1","d"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0165"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00048","num":"00048"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"u","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"u","mn":"0"},{"mi":"z","mn":"3"}],"mo":"-"},"mn":"40"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"and","msub":{"mi":"u","mn":"0"}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["k","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"1"}}}},{"msub":[{"mi":["k","d"]},{"mi":"z","mn":"2"}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"-"}],"mo":"="}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["k","k"],"sub":["d","c","p","c","c ","c","o "],"sup":"2 ","o":"\u03c9","figref":"FIG. 12"},"It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that observer based design and tuning techniques can be scaled to plants of arbitrary orders. For a general nth order plant with unknown dynamics and external disturbances,\n\n=\u0192()+\u2003\u2003(57)\n\nthe observer can be similarly derived, starting from the state space equation\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0167"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00049","num":"00049"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mn":"1"},{"mi":"x","mn":"2"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mn":"2"},{"mi":"x","mn":"3"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u2026"}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mi":"n"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"+","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"u"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mi":"h"}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"=","msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"1"}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"58"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["n+1","1","2 ","n+1]"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":"L=[\u03b2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0168"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00050","num":"00050"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mo":"{","mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"1"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"3"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mi":"\u2026"}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mi":"n"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":["-","+"],"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}}},{"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"u"}]}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"z","mo":"."},"mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b2","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"z","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"t"}}}}}}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"60"}}]}}}}},"With the gains properly selected, the observer will track the states and yield\n\n()\u2192(),()\u2192{dot over ()}(), . . . ,()\u2192()\n\n()\u2192\u0192()\u2003\u2003(61)\n\nThe control law can also be similarly designed as in (45) and (47), with\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0169","num":"0170"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00051","num":"00051"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"u","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"z","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"+","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"u","mn":"0"}],"mo":"+"},"msub":{"mi":"b","mn":"0"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"62"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":["y","\u0192\u2212z","u","\u2248u","u","=k","r\u2212z","k","z","\u2212 . . . \u2212k","z","s","+k","s","+ . . . +k","s+h","s+\u03c9","s","s","s+\u03b2","s+\u03c9"],"sup":["(n)","n","n\u22121","n","n","n\u22121","n"],"sub":["n+1","0","0","0","p","1","d",{"sub2":"i"},"2","d",{"sub2":"i"},"n","c","d",{"sub2":"n\u22121"},"d",{"sub2":"1"},"p","c","c ","o ","1","n\u22121","n","o"]},"The following example method can be employed to identify a plant order and b. Given a \u201cblack box\u201d plant with input u and output y, the order, n, and bcan be estimated by allowing the plant to discharge energy stored internally so that it has a zero initial condition, (e.g., y(0)={dot over (y)}(0)= . . . y(0)=0) and then assuming \u0192(0)=0. The method includes applying a set of input signals and determining the initial slope of the response: {dot over (y)}(0), \u00ff(0), . . . . The method also includes determining the slope y(0) that is proportional to u(0) under various tests, (e.g., y(0)=ku(0)). Then the method includes setting n=i+1 and b=k.","Auto-Tuning Based on the New Scaling, Parameterization and Optimization Techniques","Auto-tuning concerns a \u201cpress button function\u201d in digital control equipment that automatically selects control parameters. Auto-tuning is conventionally realized using an algorithm to calculate the PID parameters based on the step response characteristics like overshoot and settling time. Auto-tuning has application in, for example, the start up procedure of closed-loop control (e.g., commissioning an assembly line in a factory). Auto-tuning can benefit from scaling and parameterization.","In some applications, dynamic changes in the plant during operations are so severe that controller parameters are varied from one operating point to another. Conventionally, gain-scheduling is employed to handle these situations. In gain-scheduling, the controller gains are predetermined for different operating points and switched during operations. Additionally, and\/or alternatively, self-tuning that actively adjusts control parameters based on real time data identifying dynamic plant changes is employed.","Common goals of these techniques are to make the controller parameter determination automatic, given the plant response to a certain input excitation, say a step function and to maintain a consistent controller performance over a wide range of operations, (e.g. making the controller robust).","Example systems, methods and so on described herein concerning scaling and parameterization facilitate auto-scaling model based controllers. When a transfer function model of a plant is available, the controller can be designed using either pole placement or loop shaping techniques. Thus, example scaling techniques described herein facilitate automating controller design and tuning for problems including, but not limited to, motion control, where plants are similar, differing only in dc gain and the bandwidth, and adjusting controller parameters to maintain high control performance as the bandwidth and the gain of the plant change during the operation.","In the examples, the plant transfer functions can be represented as (s)=kG(s\/\u03c9), where G(s) is given and known as the \u201cmother\u201d plant and k and \u03c9are obtained from the plant response or transfer function. Assuming the design criteria are similar in nature, differing only in terms of the loop gain bandwidth, \u03c9, the controller for similar plants can be automatically obtained by scaling the given controller, G(s,\u03c9), for G(s). This is achieved by combining the controller scaling, defined in equation (26), and \u03c9-parameterization to obtain the controller for (s)=kG(s\/\u03c9) as\n\n()=(,\u03c9)\/\u2003\u2003(67)\n","There are three parameters in (67) that are subject to tuning. The first two parameters, k and \u03c9, represent plant changes or variations that are determined. The third parameter, \u03c9, is tuned to maximize performance of the control system subject to practical constraints.","An example method for auto-tuning is now described. The auto-tuning method includes examining a plant G(s) and the nominal controller G(s,\u03c9). Given the plant G(s) and the nominal controller G(s,\u03c9), the method includes performing off-line tests to determine k and \u03c9for the plant. The method also includes using equation (67) to determine a new controller for the plant, (s)=kG(s\/\u03c9), obtained in the previous act. The method also includes optimizing \u03c9for the new plant.","An example method for adaptive self-tuning is now described. The adaptive self-tuning procedure includes examining a plant (s)=kG(s\/\u03c9), where k and \u03c9are subject to change during plant operation. Given the plant =kG(s\/\u03c9), the method includes performing real time parameter estimation to determine k and \u03c9as they change. The method also includes determining when the performance of the control system is degraded beyond a pre-determined, configurable threshold and updating the controller using (67). The method also includes selectively decreasing \u03c9if the plant dynamics deviate significantly from the model kG(s\/\u03c9), which causes performance and stability problems. The method also includes selectively increasing \u03c9subject to \u03c9-optimization constraints if the plant model can be updated to reflect the changes of the plant beyond k and \u03c9.","The LADRC technique does not require the mathematical model of the plant. Instead, it employs a rough estimate of the single parameter b in the differential equation of the plant (57). This estimation is denoted as band is the sole plant parameter in LADRC. As the dynamics of the plant changes, so does b. Thus, bcan be estimated by rewriting (57) as\n\n=\u0192()+\u2003\u2003(69)\n\nand assuming the zero initial condition, (e.g., y(0)=0, i=1, 2, . . . n\u22121 and \u0192(0)=0). Then b\u2248b can be estimated by using\n\n(0)\/(0)\u2003\u2003(70)\n\nwhere u(0) is the initial value of the input. It is to be appreciated that this method can be applied to both open loop and closed-loop configurations. For the auto-tuning purposes, the test can be performed off-line and a step input, u(t)=constant can be applied. The LADRC does not require bto be highly accurate because the difference, b\u2212b, is treated as one of the sources of the disturbance estimated by LESO and cancelled by control law.\n","The bobtained from the off-line estimation of b described above can be adapted for auto-tuning LADRC. An auto-tuning method includes, performing off-line tests to determine the order of the plant and b, selecting the order and the bparameter of the LADRC using the results of the off-line tests, and performing a computerized auto-optimization.","Using the controller scaling, parameterization and optimization techniques presented herein, an example computer implemented method  as shown in  can be employed to facilitate automatically designing and optimizing the automatic controls (ADOAC) for various applications. The applications include, but are not limited to, motion control, thermal control, pH control, aeronautics, avionics, astronautics, servo control, and so on.","The method , at , accepts inputs including, but not limited to, information concerning hardware and software limitations like the actuator saturation limit, noise tolerance, sampling rate limit, noise levels from sensors, quantization, finite word length, and the like. The method also accepts input design requirements like settling time, overshoot, accuracy, disturbance attenuation, and so on. Furthermore, the method also accepts as input the preferred control law form like, PID form, model based controller in a transfer function form, and model independent LADRC form. In one example, the method can indicate if the control law should be provided in a difference equation form. At , a determination is made concerning whether a model is available. If a model is available, then at  the model is accepted either in transfer function, differential equations, or state space form. If a model is not available, then the method may accept step response data at . Information on significant dynamics that is not modeled, such as the resonant modes, can also be accepted.","Once the method has received information input, the method can check design feasibility by evaluating the specification against the limitations. For example, in order to see whether transient specifications are achievable given the limitations on the actuator, various transient profiles can be used to determine maximum values of the derivatives of the output base on which the maximum control signal can be estimated. Thus, at , a determination is made concerning whether the design is feasible. In one example, if the design is not feasible, processing can conclude. Otherwise, processing can proceed to .","If the input information passes the feasibility test, then at , the method  can determine an \u03c9parameterized solution in one or more formats. In one example, the \u03c9solution can then be simulated at  to facilitate optimizing the solution.","In one example, to assist an engineer or other user, the ADOAC method provides parameterized solutions of different kind, order, and\/or forms, as references. The references can then be ranked separately according to simplicity, command following quality, disturbance rejection, and so on to facilitate comparison.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0186","num":"0187"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1402","1404","1406","1410","1412","1408","1400","1400","1402","1404","1406","1406","1404","1414","1416","1406","1404","1400"]},"The bus  can be a single internal bus interconnect architecture and\/or other bus architectures. The bus  can be of a variety of types including, but not limited to, a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus or external bus, and\/or a local bus. The local bus can be of varieties including, but not limited to, an industrial standard architecture (ISA) bUs, a microchannel architecture (MSA) bus, an extended ISA (EISA) bus, a peripheral component interconnect (PCI) bus, a universal serial (USB) bus, and a small computer systems interface (SCSI) bus.","The computer  interacts with input\/output devices  via input\/output ports . Input\/output devices  can include, but are not limited to, a keyboard, a microphone, a pointing and selection device, cameras, video cards, displays, and the like. The input\/output ports  can include but are not limited to, serial ports, parallel ports, and USB ports.","The computer  can operate in a network environment and thus is connected to a network  by a network interface . Through the network , the computer  may be logically connected to a remote computer . The network  can include, but is not limited to, local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), and other networks. The network interface  can connect to local area network technologies including, but not limited to, fiber distributed data interface (FDDI), copper distributed data interface (CDDI), ethernet\/IEEE 802.3, token ring\/IEEE 802.5, and the like. Similarly, the network interface  can connect to wide area network technologies including, but not limited to, point to point links, and circuit switching networks like integrated services digital networks (ISDN), packet switching networks, and digital subscriber lines (DSL).","Referring now to , information can be transmitted between various computer components associated with controller scaling and parameterization described herein via a data packet . An exemplary data packet  is shown. The data packet  includes a header field  that includes information such as the length and type of packet. A source identifier  follows the header field  and includes, for example, an address of the computer component from which the packet  originated. Following the source identifier , the packet  includes a destination identifier  that holds, for example, an address of the computer component to which the packet  is ultimately destined. Source and destination identifiers can be, for example, globally unique identifiers (guids), URLS (uniform resource locators), path names, and the like. The data field  in the packet  includes various information intended for the receiving computer component. The data packet  ends with an error detecting and\/or correcting field  whereby a computer component can determine if it has properly received the packet . While six fields are illustrated in the data packet , it is to be appreciated that a greater and\/or lesser number of fields can be present in data packets.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0191","num":"0192"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 15"],"b":["1600","1540","1600","1600","1610","1620","1600","1630"]},"Referring now to , an application programming interface (API)  is illustrated providing access to a system  for controller scaling and\/or parameterization. The API  can be employed, for example, by programmers  and\/or processes  to gain access to processing performed by the system . For example, a programmer  can write a program to access the system  (e.g., to invoke its operation, to monitor its operation, to access its functionality) where writing a program is facilitated by the presence of the API . Thus, rather than the programmer  having to understand the internals of the system , the programmer's task is simplified by merely having to learn the interface to the system . This facilitates encapsulating the functionality of the system  while exposing that functionality. Similarly, the API  can be employed to provide data values to the system  and\/or retrieve data values from the system .","For example, a proceSs  that retrieves plant information from a data store can provide the plant information to the system  and\/or the programmers  via the API  by, for example, using a call provided in the API . Thus, in one example of the API , a set of application program interfaces can be stored on a computer-readable medium. The interfaces can be executed by a computer component to gain access to a system for controller scaling and parameterization. Interfaces can include, but are not limited to, a first interface  that facilitates communicating controller information associated with PID production, a second interface  that facilitates communicating plant information associated with PID production, and a third interface  that facilitates communicating frequency scaling information generated from the plant information and the controller information.","The systems, methods, and objects described herein may be stored, for example, on a computer readable media. Media can include, but are not limited to, an ASIC, a CD, a DVD, a RAM, a ROM, a PROM, a disk, a carrier wave, a memory stick, and the like. Thus, an example computer readable medium can store computer executable instructions for one or more of the claimed methods.","What has been described above includes several examples. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the systems, methods, computer readable media and so on employed in scaling and parameterizing controllers. However, one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly, this application is intended to embrace alterations, modifications, and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims. Furthermore, the preceding description is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Rather, the scope of the invention is to be determined only by the appended claims and their equivalents.","While the systems, methods and so on herein have been illustrated by describing examples, and while the examples have been described in considerable detail, it is not the intention of the applicants to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore, the invention, in its broader aspects, is not limited to the specific details, the representative apparatus, and illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly, departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of the applicant's general inventive concept."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Prior Art  illustrates the configuration of an output feedback control system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 18"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
