---
title: Providing client system support
abstract: In one embodiment, a support request message is received. Further, a check is made to determine whether a support request repository includes an analogous support request message analogous to the support request message. When the analogous support request is included in the support request repository, a response associated with the analogous support request is sent. When the analogous support request is not included in the support request repository, a client system connection associated with the support request message is determined. Furthermore, when the client system connection is established, the support request message, and a plurality of related prior support request messages and associated responses are sent to an escalation support unit. Also, a response received from the escalation support unit, and the support request message, are stored in the support request repository.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838715&OS=08838715&RS=08838715
owner: SAP AG
number: 08838715
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120525
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Embodiments generally relate to information technology and more particularly to methods and systems to provide client system support.","Information technology support services have evolved to play a proactive role due to increase in the number and complexity of the software products. The information technology support services include support units to provide solution or suggestions to the issues raised by clients related to the software products. Typically, when an issue is raised by a client, support associates of the support unit strive to collect required information, determine the nature of the issue and communicate the solution to the client. Therefore, efficiency of the support unit depends heavily on the skills and expertise of the support associates.","Further, information such as issues and the associated solutions are dispersed across management systems, product manuals, developer communities and technical documentations. Moreover, many times such information is available in unstructured format and the support associates may need to spend considerable time in searching for prior related issues. The support associates may find it tedious to respond to the same kind of issues raised over time. Therefore, the support unit may not necessarily meet the \u2018always-on\u2019 requirements of the client. Furthermore, such a process is highly time consuming and often not reliable.","Embodiments of techniques to provide a client system support is described herein. According to various embodiments, support system refers to a system by which an organization provides a range of services to the clients pertaining to organization's products by solving specific problems associated with the products. The support system includes escalation support units to provide solutions or suggestions to the issues or problems, raised by the clients, related to the products. The issue is included in a support request message created at a client system. The escalation support units may include a plurality of support associates expertized in products of the organization.","According to one embodiment, support request messages are analyzed at a support request repository before being sent to the escalation support unit. When a support request message is received, a check is made to determine whether an analogous support request message analogous to the support request message is present in the support request repository. When the analogous support request message is present, a response associated with the analogous support request message is used to respond to the received support request message. Thereby, the escalation support unit is not involved in responding to the same kind of support request messages raised over time.","Further, when the analogous support request message is not present, a client system connection is checked to allow an escalation support unit to access a client system for responding to the support request message. Furthermore, when the client system connection is established, the support request message and related prior support request messages are sent to the escalation support unit to assist in providing a response to the support request message. In addition, the response provided by the escalation support unit is stored in the support request repository along with the support request message for future reference. Thus, the process of responding to the support request messages is made efficient.","In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize, however, that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details, or with other methods, components, materials, etc. In other instances, well-known structures, materials, or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.","Reference throughout this specification to \u201cone embodiment\u201d, \u201cthis embodiment\u201d and similar phrases, means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 5"],"b":["100","110","110","115","110","105","120","115","110","120"]},"Further, when the analogous support request message is not present in the support request repository , a client system connection is checked to allow an escalation support unit  to access the client system  for responding to the support request message. When the client system connection is not established, a request message to provide client system connection information is sent to the client system . Further, when the client system connection is established, the support request message and related prior support request messages are sent to the escalation support unit . The related prior support request messages may be prior support request messages stored in the support request repository  dealing with similar issue as of the support request message but may not be analogous to the support request message. The related prior support request is described with an example in . In addition, the response provided by the escalation support unit  is stored in the support request repository  along with the support request message for future reference. Thus, the process of responding to the support request messages is made efficient.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 4"],"b":["200","210"]},"At step , a check is made to determine whether a support request repository includes an analogous support request message analogous to the received support request message. In one embodiment, the support request repository is an in-memory computing database including one or more prior support request messages and associated responses. Further, the analogous support request message in the support request repository is determined using natural language processing (NLP) technique. At step , a response associated to the analogous support message is sent to the client system. The process of determining the analogous support request message and sending the response associated with the analogous support message is described with an example in .","At step , when the analogous support request is not included in the support request repository, a check is made to determine whether a client system connection associated with the support request message to allow an escalation support unit to access the client system is established. In one exemplary embodiment, the client system connection includes log-in details of the client system. The client system connection is described in greater detail in .","At step , when the client system connection is not established, a request response for providing the client system connection details is sent to the client system. At step , when the client system connection is established (also, e.g., ), the support request message is sent to an escalation support unit for analyzing the support request message and providing a response or solution to the support request message. In addition, a plurality of related prior support request messages and associated responses are sent to the escalation support unit for assisting in providing the response to the support request message. Further, the related prior support requests and associated responses are determined using techniques such as NLP technique. The related prior support requests are described in greater detail with an example in .","At step , the response corresponding to the support request message is received from the escalation support unit. The escalation support unit provides the response to the support request message using the plurality of related prior support request messages and the associated responses. At step , the support request message and the corresponding response are stored in the support request repository for future reference. Further, the response is sent to the client system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","305","310","300","305","310","305","310","315","325","305","310","320"]},"At step , a support request message is sent from the client system  to the support request repository . An example of the support request message is depicted in . With reference to , the support request message  includes client details , support request message details , a subject  (e.g., time error in product c), a body  and a client system connection . The client details  include but are not limited to client's name, address of the client and contact details. The support request message details  include but are not limited to details of operating system of the client system, a product details to which the issue is concerned (e.g., software product name and version), date and time at which the support request message is sent, priority of the support request message (e.g., high or low or medium) and a status of the support request message (e.g., new or in process or completed).","At step , upon receiving the support request message, a check is made to determine whether the support request repository  includes an analogous support request analogous to the support request message. Each prior support request message in the support request repository is checked to find the analogous support request message for the support request message (e.g., ) using techniques such natural language processing (NLP). An example of the analogous support request message, analogous to the support request message of , is depicted in . With reference to , both the support request message (e.g.,  of ) and analogous support request message  are related to a same issue (e.g., time error in component c) as depicted in subject line (e.g.,  and ) and the body of the support request messages (e.g.,  and ). Since the analogous support request message  is present in the support request repository , a response associated with the analogous support request message  (e.g., body (e.g., ) of the response ) is sent to the client system  (e.g., step ). The process followed when the analogous support request is not present in the support request repository  is described in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","605","610","600","605","610","605","610","615","630","605","610","620","625"]},"At step , a support request message is sent from the client system  to the support request repository . Further at step , a check is made to determine whether an analogous support request message for the support request message is present in the support request repository  as described in . When the analogous support request message is not present in the support request repository , a check is made to determine whether a client system connection associated with the support request message is established to allow an escalation support unit to access the client system  (e.g., step ). In one exemplary embodiment, the client system connection includes log-in details of the client system . The log-in details may include but are not limited to a system identifier (ID), user ID and password. The support request repository  attempts to connect to the client system  using the client system connection (e.g.,  of ).","In one embodiment, when the connection to the client system  cannot be established with the available system connection details (e.g., ), a request response for providing the client system connection details is sent (e.g., step ). The process followed upon receiving the system connection details from the client system  or when the connection to the client system  is established with the available system connection details (e.g., ) is described in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","705","710","715","700","705","710","715","705","710","715","720","735","740","750","705","710","715","725","730","745"]},"At step , a support request message is sent from the client system  to the support request repository . Further at step , a check is made to determine whether an analogous support request message analogous to the support request message is present in the support request repository  as described in . At step , when the analogous support request message is not present in the support request repository, a check is made to determine whether a client system connection associated with the support request message is established to allow the escalation support unit  to access the client system .","At step , when the client system connection is established, the support request message is sent to the escalation support unit  for providing a response to the support request message. Further, a plurality of related prior support request messages corresponding to the support request message are sent to the escalation support unit . An example of related prior support request messages is shown in . With reference to , the related prior support request messages  include suggestions for providing the response to the support request message (e.g.,  of ). In one exemplary embodiment, the suggestions include subject lines of the related prior support request messages (e.g., ). Further, the related prior support request messages and the associated responses may be viewed by clicking on the subject line of the related prior support request messages.","In one embodiment, a support associate of the escalation support unit  provides the response to the support request message (e.g.,  of ) using the suggestions (e.g., ). At step , the response is sent to the support request repository . Further at step , the response and the support request message are stored in the support request repository  for future reference, and the response is sent to the client system  (e.g., step ). Thereby, the support associates may not respond to same kind of support request messages. Further, client system connection checks are performed without human intervention. Furthermore, by providing the related prior support request messages corresponding to the support request message makes responding to the support request message easy and less time consuming.","Some embodiments of the invention may include the above-described methods being written as one or more software components. These components, and the functionality associated with each, may be used by client, server, distributed, or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as, functional, declarative, procedural, object-oriented, lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively, the components may be implemented in server and client applications. Further, these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example, a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level (e.g., a graphical user interface). These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server-client, peer-to-peer, or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices, to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.","The above-illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term \u201ccomputer readable storage medium\u201d should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term \u201ccomputer readable storage medium\u201d should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store, encode, or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described, represented, or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include, but are not limited to: magnetic media, such as hard disks, floppy disks, and magnetic tape; optical media such as CD-ROMs, DVDs and holographic devices; magneto-optical media; and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute, such as application-specific integrated circuits (\u201cASICs\u201d), programmable logic devices (\u201cPLDs\u201d) and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code, such as produced by a compiler, and files containing higher-level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example, an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java, C++, or other object-oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard-wired circuitry in place of, or in combination with machine readable software instructions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["900","900","905","955","900","940","955","910","915","910","915","905","915","900","925","930","900","925","930","900","935","900","950","950","900","945","900","920","960","960","960","950","960"]},"A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases, such as, relational, transactional, hierarchical, multi-dimensional (e.g., OLAP), object oriented databases, and the like. Further data sources include tabular data (e.g., spreadsheets, delimited text files), data tagged with a markup language (e.g., XML data), transactional data, unstructured data (e.g., text files, screen scrapings), hierarchical data (e.g., data in a file system, XML data), files, a plurality of reports, and any other data source accessible through an established protocol, such as, Open DataBase Connectivity (ODBC), produced by an underlying software system (e.g., ERP system), and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams, broadcast data, and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations, semantic layers, management systems, security systems and so on.","In the above description, numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize, however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods, components, techniques, etc. In other instances, well-known operations or structures are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.","Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps, it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps, as some steps may occur in different orders, some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition, not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover, it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.","The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention, including what is described in the Abstract, is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of, and examples for, the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention, as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather, the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims, which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The claims set forth the embodiments of the invention with particularity. The invention is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. The embodiments of the invention, together with its advantages, may be best understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
