---
title: System and method for product optimization
abstract: A method includes maintaining product sales information according to a data model. The data model includes a consumer-demographics naming convention, a retail-provider-type naming convention, and a product-naming convention. The maintaining includes indexing the product sales information by consumer-demographics information, by retail-provider-type information, and by product-categorization information. The method further includes receiving raw sales information and translating the raw sales information into the data model. In addition the method includes storing the translated raw sales information as part of the product sales information. Furthermore, the method includes receiving a request for aggregation of at least a portion of the product sales information. The request specifies an intersection of the product-categorization information, the consumer-demographic information, and the retail-provider-type information. The method also includes, responsive to the request, aggregating the at least a portion of the product sales information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405754&OS=09405754&RS=09405754
owner: Andrews Distributing Company, LLC
number: 09405754
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120802
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims priority from, and incorporates by reference the entire disclosure of, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/515,758 filed on Aug. 5, 2011.","1. Technical Field","The present invention relates generally to sales optimization and more particularly, but not by way of limitation, to systems and methods for optimizing product sales via a plurality of naming conventions.","2. History of Related Art","Most product supply chains include a manufacturer or producer of a product, a plurality of retail providers that provide the product for sale, and a consumer who ultimately receives the product. In industries involving supply chains for goods, it is common for the product supply chain to further include a distributor that distributes products from the manufacturer to retail providers. Although individual entities in product supply chains each benefit from optimizing products for improved sales, in a competitive marketplace, specific sales data on which to base product optimization is generally not available.","In addition, sales of a given product can vary significantly based on many factors that include consumer demographics and a type of retail provider offering the given product for sale. For example, consumers living in an urban environment may have a proclivity for different categories of products than consumers living in a rural environment. In a similar fashion, a given product may sell far better in some types of retail providers (e.g., grocery stores) than in others (e.g., convenience stores). However, retail providers, manufacturers or producers, and distributors often cannot reliably determine, in advance, which products will sell best at a particular retail provider, or, alternatively, which retail providers are good choices for placement of a product in the marketplace.","Current optimization methods apply product optimization in an ad hoc manner based on, for example, domain knowledge of an individual or raw projections that are not adequately supported by actual sales data. Therefore, current methods are not optimal for purposes of applying product optimization in a consistent and repeatable manner.","In one embodiment, a method includes, in a product analytics database, maintaining product sales information according to a data model. The data model includes a consumer-demographics naming convention, a retail-provider-type naming convention, and a product-naming convention. The maintaining includes indexing the product sales information by consumer-demographics information pursuant to the consumer-demographics naming convention, by retail-provider-type information pursuant to the retail-provider-type naming convention, and by product-categorization information pursuant to the product-naming convention. The method further includes receiving, by a server computer, raw sales information and translating, by the server computer, the raw sales information into the data model. In addition the method includes storing the translated raw sales information as part of the product sales information. Furthermore, the method includes receiving, by the server computer, a request for aggregation of at least a portion of the product sales information. The request specifies an intersection of the product-categorization information, the consumer-demographic information, and the retail-provider-type information. The method also includes, responsive to the request, the server computer aggregating the at least a portion of the product sales information.","In one embodiment, a system includes a product analytics database that maintains product sales information. The product sales information is maintained according to a data model that includes a consumer-demographics naming convention, a retail-provider-type naming convention, and a product-naming convention. The product sales information is indexed by consumer-demographics information pursuant to the consumer-demographics naming convention, by retail-provider-type information pursuant to the retail-provider-type naming convention, and by product-categorization information pursuant to the product-naming convention. The system further includes a server computer in data communication with the product analytics database. The server computer is operable to receive raw sales information, translate the raw sales information into the data model, and store the translated raw sales information as part of the product sales information. The server computer is further operable to receive a request for aggregation of at least a portion of the product sales information. The request specifies an intersection of the product-categorization information, the consumer-demographics information, and the retail-provider-type information. In addition, responsive to the request, the server computer is operable to aggregate the at least a portion of the product sales information.","In one embodiment, a computer-program product includes a computer-usable medium having computer-readable program code embodied therein. The computer-readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method. The method includes, in a product analytics database, maintaining product sales information according to a data model. The data model includes a consumer-demographics naming convention, a retail-provider-type naming convention, and a product-naming convention. The maintaining includes indexing the product sales information by consumer-demographics information pursuant to the consumer-demographics naming convention, by retail-provider-type information pursuant to the retail-provider-type naming convention, and by product-categorization information pursuant to the product-naming convention. The method further includes receiving, by a server computer, raw sales information and translating, by the server computer, the raw sales information into the data model. In addition the method includes storing the translated raw sales information as part of the product sales information. Furthermore, the method includes receiving, by the server computer, a request for aggregation of at least a portion of the product sales information. The request specifies an intersection of the product-categorization information, the consumer-demographic information, and the retail-provider-type information. The method also includes, responsive to the request, the server computer aggregating the at least a portion of the product sales information.","The above summary of the invention is not intended to represent each embodiment or every aspect of the present invention.","In various embodiments, inventive principles described herein enable improved organization and categorization of sales data that can be leveraged to the benefit of stakeholders throughout product supply chains. For purposes of this patent application, a product is a good or a service that is ultimately provided or marketed to a consumer. In various embodiments, a data model for expressing product sales is established that utilizes a product-naming convention to describe categories of products, a consumer-demographics naming convention to describe categories of consumers, and a retail-provider-type naming convention to describe categories of retail providers. In various embodiments, sales data stored according to the data model may be leveraged by stakeholders such as, for example, retail providers, manufacturers, and distributors, to optimize placement of products in a competitive marketplace.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","106","104","106","108","112","110","100","102","106","102","106","102","106"]},"In a typical embodiment, the product analytics database  implements a data model that conforms to the pre-established naming conventions of the product-optimization system , that is, the product-naming convention, the consumer-demographics naming convention, and the retail-provider-type naming convention. In various embodiments, the pre-established naming conventions may be expressed as a tree structure. Via the data model, the product analytics database  maintains sales information by retail-provider-type category, by product category, and by consumer-demographics category. In that way, the product analytics database  is typically operable to aggregate sales information by any combination of one or more consumer-demographics categories, one or more retail-provider-type categories, and one or more product categories. In a typical embodiment, the product analytics database  thereby drives the optimization functionality of the product-optimization system . In various embodiments, the product analytics database  may represent a single database as illustrated or be representative of a plurality of product analytics databases in a distributed environment.","In a typical embodiment, the sales database  is a source for raw sales information. In a typical embodiment, the raw sales information identifies product sales by retail provider and product but is not necessarily stored by the sales database  in conformance to the data model of the product analytics database . Rather, via the API , the raw sales information is translated into the data model of the product analytics database . The API  may provide access to the product analytics database , for example, via an open database connectivity (ODBC) interface.","In a typical embodiment, the sales database  belongs to a stakeholder in a product supply chain. For example, in various embodiments, the sales database  may be a database belonging to a distributor (or a plurality of distributors) that distributes products from manufacturers to retail providers that are the distributor's customers. In these embodiments, the sales database  may provide raw sales information that comprehensively describes, for the distributor's customers, sales of products that the distributor distributes. By way of further example, in various embodiments, the sales database  may be a database of a manufacturer that provides, for example, raw sales information that comprehensively describes sales of the manufacturer's products. Although the sales database  is illustrated singly, in various embodiments, the sales database  may be representative of a plurality of sales databases. For example, the sales database  may represent a plurality of databases from a plurality of retail providers that have agreed to share sales information, for example, in exchange for access to optimization features of the product-optimization system .","The retail\/consumer database  typically maintains information on retail providers in a two-fold fashion. First, the retail providers may be identified according to the consumer-demographics naming convention. In various embodiments, each of the retail providers may be placed into one of a plurality of categories indicative of consumer demographics in a geographical area served by the retail providers. Second, the retail providers may be identified according to the retail-provider-type naming convention. In various embodiments, each of the retail providers may be placed into one of a plurality of categories indicative of a type of retail provider (e.g., grocery store, convenience store, etc.). In a typical embodiment, the retail\/consumer database  is intended to be comprehensive and is regularly updated to include new retail providers. In various embodiments, information from the retail\/consumer database  may be offered as a service by a third-party service provider.","In operation, the product analytics database  receives raw sales information from the sales database  via the API . In various embodiments, the raw sales information may be received at regular intervals (e.g., daily). The raw sales information typically identifies sales by product and by retail provider. The API  allows the product analytics database  to accept raw sales information from databases that store data according to diverse data formats. Via the API , the raw sales information is translated into the data model of the product analytics database . As described above, the sales database  may represent a single database as illustrated or be representative of a plurality of sales databases that all provide raw sales information to the product analytics database .","The product analytics database  receives consumer-demographics information and retail-provider-type information from the retail\/consumer database . For example, in various embodiments, the product analytics database  provides the retail\/consumer database  information related to each retail provider identified by the sales information maintained therein. The retail\/consumer database  typically responds with a consumer-demographics category (according to the consumer-demographics naming convention) and a retail-provider-type category (according to the retail-provider-type naming convention) for each retail provider. In that way, the product analytics database  may maintain the sales information in conformance with the consumer-demographics naming convention and the retail-provider-type naming convention in addition to the product-naming convention. The product analytics database  may request and receive consumer-demographics information and retail-provider-type information at regular intervals such as, for example, monthly.","In a typical embodiment, the product-optimization system  is portable across industries. For example, the product-optimization system  may be implemented in the beverage industry to describe beverages and sales of beverages at restaurants, grocery stores, and the like. By way of further example, the product-optimization system  may be implemented in other industries to describe sales of food products, automobiles, electronics, and other products. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the product-optimization system  may be utilized in any industry by substituting an appropriate product-naming convention, an appropriate retail-provider-type naming convention, and an appropriate consumer-demographics naming convention. In some embodiments, the product analytics database  may be maintained by a distributor of products and the product-optimization system  may be provided by the distributor as a service to manufacturers\/producers and retail providers.","As will be described in more detail below with respect to the ensuing figures, the product analytics database  is operable to serve reports and analytics to the plurality of client computing devices . In various embodiments, the client computing devices  may include desktop computers, laptop computers, tablet computers, smartphones, and other appropriate client computing devices . Reports and analytics may be served on demand, for example, via the website , via a native application designed for a particular client platform, or via an HTML5 application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["200","106","200","202","204","206"]},"In a typical embodiment, a product optimization may be initiated via selection of a model market . As used herein, a model market is a selection of one or more consumer-demographics categories and one or more retail-provider-type categories. As illustrated in the Venn graph , the model market  may be expressed as an intersection of the retail-provider-type information  and the consumer-demographics information . For example, the model market  may encompass convenience stores (i.e., a retail-provider-type category) in a suburban setting (i.e., a consumer-demographics category).","In a typical embodiment, an intersection of the retail-provider-type information  and the product-categorization information  represents an available assortment of products  from which a retail provider may select to offer for sale to consumers. In a typical embodiment, an intersection of the consumer-demographics information  and the product-categorization information  represents an ability of the product analytics database  of  to maintain product-category preferences  for consumer-demographics categories.","In a typical embodiment, selection of the model market  enables identification of an optimal assortment  of products to be sold or marketed to the model market . The optimal assortment  is reflected in the Venn graph  as an intersection of the consumer-demographics information , the retail-provider-type information , and the product-categorization information . In other words, the optimal assortment  generally includes a strategic subset of the available assortment of products  that the product-category preferences  indicate are preferred by consumer demographics in the model market .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 3A-3D"],"b":["300","300","302","304","306","308","310","300"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","302","302","304","306","308","310"],"i":["a ","a ","a ","a","a","a","a. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3B","b":["300","302","302","304","306","308","310"],"i":["b ","b ","b ","b","b","b","b. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 3C","b":["300","302","302","304","306","308","310"],"i":["c ","c ","c ","c","c","c","c. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 3D","b":["300","302","302","304","306","308","310"],"i":["d ","d ","d ","d","d","d","d. "]},"Table 1 below describes an exemplary retail-provider-type naming convention, an exemplary consumer-demographics naming convention, and exemplary model markets based on marketing data provided by the Nielsen Company. The examples provided in Table 1 are with respect to embodiments in which a product-optimization system such as, for example, the product-optimization system  of , is utilized in the beverage industry. Table 1 depicts the exemplary consumer-demographics naming convention via a plurality of consumer-demographics categories that are listed in the \u201cNeighborhood\u201d column. In particular, Table 1 lists six consumer-demographics categories of \u201cAffluent Suburban Spreads,\u201d \u201cComfortable Country,\u201d \u201cCosmopolitan Centers,\u201d \u201cModest Working Towns,\u201d \u201cPlain Rural Living,\u201d and \u201cStruggling Urban Cores.\u201d","Table 1 below further describes the exemplary retail-provider-type naming convention in columns labeled \u201cPremiseType,\u201d \u201cChannel,\u201d and \u201cSubChannel.\u201d The exemplary retail-provider-type naming convention may be considered a tree that extends from a root to two premises types of \u201cOffPremise\u201d and \u201cOnPremise.\u201d Each of the two premises types has a plurality of channels that is reflected in the \u201cChannel\u201d column. Each of the plurality of channels has a sub-channel that is reflected in the \u201cSubChannel\u201d column. Each line item in Table 1 is an intersection of the exemplary retail-provider-type naming convention and the consumer-demographics naming convention. Therefore, Table 1 may be considered a listing of model markets for the beverage industry. Each model market in Table 1 may include, for example, a plurality of retail providers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Premise","Neighborhood","Channel","Sub Channel"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Convenience Store","Conventional Convenience"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Convenience Store","Gas Station Kiosk"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Drug","Conventional Drug"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Grocery","Supercenter"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Grocery","Superette"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Grocery","Supermarket-Natural\/Gourmet Foods"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Liquor","Beer Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Liquor","Conventional Liquor"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Liquor","Liquor Super Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Liquor","Wine Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Mass Merchandiser","Conventional Mass Merchandiser"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Wholesale Club","Conventional Wholesale Club"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Convenience Store","Conventional Convenience"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Drug","Conventional Drug"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Grocery","Supercenter"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Grocery","Supermarket-Natural\/Gourmet Foods"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Liquor","Beer Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Liquor","Conventional Liquor"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Liquor","Liquor Super Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Mass Merchandiser","Conventional Mass Merchandiser"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Comfortable Country","Wholesale Club","Conventional Wholesale Club"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Convenience Store","Conventional Convenience"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Drug","Conventional Drug"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Grocery","Supercenter"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Grocery","Superette"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Grocery","Warehouse Grocery"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Liquor","Conventional Liquor"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Liquor","Liquor Super Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Liquor","Wine Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Mass Merchandiser","Conventional Mass Merchandiser"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Wholesale Club","Conventional Wholesale Club"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Convenience Store","Conventional Convenience"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Drug","Conventional Drug"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Master Off Premise","Small Grocery"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Grocery","Supercenter"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Grocery","Superette"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Grocery","Supermarket-Limil4d Assortment"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Grocery","Supermarket-Natural\/Gourmet Foods"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Liquor","Beer Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Liquor","Conventional Liquor"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Liquor","Liquor Super Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Mass Merchandiser","Conventional Mass Merchandiser"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Modest Working Towns","Wholesale Club","Conventional Wholesale Club"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Plain Rural Living","Convenience Store","Conventional Convenience"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Plain Rural Living","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Plain Rural Living","Drug","Conventional Drug"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Plain Rural Living","Grocery","Supercenter"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Plain Rural Living","Grocery","Superette"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Plain Rural Living","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["Off Premise","Plain Rural Living","Liquor","Beer Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Plain Rural Living","Liquor","Conventional Liquor"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Plain Rural Living","Lodging","Resort\/Convention"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Bar\/Nightclub","Casual Nightclub"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Convenience Store","Conventional Convenience"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Drug","Conventional Drug"]},{"entry":["Off-Premise","Struggling Urban Cores","Extended Master Off-Premise","Other Off-Premise"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Grocery","Supercenter"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Grocery","Superette"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Grocery","Supermarket-Limited Assortment"]},{"entry":["OffPremlse","Struggling Urban Cores","Grocery","Supermarket-Natural\/Gourmet Foods"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Liquor","Conventional Liquor"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Liquor","Liquor Super Store"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Mass Merchandiser","Conventional Mass Merchandiser"]},{"entry":["OffPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Wholesale Club","Conventional Wholesale Club"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Bar\/Nightclub","Casual Nightclub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Bar\/Nightclub","Country Western"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Bar\/Nightclub","fish Pub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Bar\/Nightclub","Premium Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Bar\/Nightclub","Premium Nightclub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Bar\/Nightclub","Sports Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Convenience Store","Conventional Convenience"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Dining","Fine Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Dining","Theme Restaurant"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Extended Master Off-Premise","Other Off Premise"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Extended Master On-Premise ","Restaurant NA"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Liquor","Wine Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Lodging","Full Service Lodging"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Lodging","Luxury Lodging"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Affluent Suburban Spreads","Lodging","Resort\/Convention"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Comfortable Country","Bar\/Nightclub","Casual Nightclub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Comfortable Country","Bar\/Nightclub","Country Western"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Comfortable Country","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Comfortable Country","Bar\/Nightclub","Sports Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Comfortable Country","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Comfortable Country","Dining","Fine Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Bar\/Nightclub","Adult Entertainment"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Bar\/Nightclub","Casual Nightclub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Bar\/Nightclub","Country Western"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Bar\/Nightclub","Irish Pub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Bar\/Nightclub","Sports Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Dining","Fine Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Dining","Theme Restaurant"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Liquor","Conventional Liquor"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Cosmopolitan Centers","Liquor","Wine Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Bar\/Nightclub","Adult Entertainment"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Bar\/Nightclub","Casual Nightclub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Bar\/Nightclub","Country Western"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Bar\/Nightclub","Irish Pub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Bar\/Nightclub","Sports Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Dining","Fine Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Extended Master On-Premise","Restaurant NA"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Lodging","Full Service Lodging"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Modest Working Towns","Lodging","Luxury Lodging"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Plain Rural Living","Bar\/Nightclub","Casual Nightclub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Plain Rural Living","Bar\/Nightclub","Country Western"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Plain Rural Living","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Plain Rural Living","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Bar\/Nightclub","Adult Entertainment"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Bar\/Nightclub","Casual Nightclub"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Bar\/Nightclub","Country Western"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Bar\/Nightclub","Neighborhood Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Bar\/Nightclub","Sports Bar"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Dining","Casual Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Dining","Fine Dining"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Dining","Theme Restaurant"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Grocery","Superette"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Grocery","Supermarket-Conventional"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Liquor","Wine Specialty Store"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Lodging","Full Service Lodging"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Lodging","Luxury Lodging"]},{"entry":["OnPremise","Struggling Urban Cores","Recreation","Billiard\/Bowling\/Arcade"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","100","400","400","402"]},"At step , a consumer-demographics category for the retail provider is acquired. In a typical embodiment, the consumer-demographics category for the retail provider is stored, for example, by the product analytics database  of  according to the consumer-demographics naming convention. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , a retail-provider-type category for the retail provider is acquired. In a typical embodiment, the retail-provider-type category for the retail provider is stored, for example, by the product analytics database  of  according to the retail-provider-type naming convention. From step , the process  proceeds to step .","At step , an optimal assortment of products for the retail provider is identified. In a typical embodiment, the retail-provider-type category acquired at step  and the consumer-demographics category acquired at step  define a model market. The optimal assortment is generally identified via a comparison of product sales among other retail providers in the model market. The product sales that are compared are typically identified according to a product-naming convention such as, for example, the product-naming convention implemented by the product-optimization system  of . The optimal assortment generally includes top selling products within the model market as defined, for example, by rates of sale or volume per outlet (VPO). From step , the process  proceeds to step .","At step , a current product assortment for the retail provider is compared with the optimal assortment. As part of step , differences between the current product assortment and the optimal product assortment are generally determined (i.e. gap identification). From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the retail provider (or distributor) acts on the optimal assortment, for example, by adding products from the optimal assortment to the products being offered for sale by the retail provider. The retail may also review sales and the assortment of products being offered for sale as part of a continual improvement process. From step , the process  ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","100","500","500","502"]},"At step , the existing product is selected via a product-naming convention such as, for example, the product-naming convention implemented by the product-optimization system  of . For example, with respect to , the existing product may be selected at the item level . From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , sales of the existing product are filtered according to model market. For example, model markets may be listed and sorted by rate of sales per store or VPO. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the model markets are assessed. Model-market assessment typically involves identifying retail providers in top model markets (e.g., model markets having a high rate of sales or VPO) that do not currently sell the existing product (i.e., unpenetrated retail providers) or are greatly underperforming relative to an applicable top model market as a whole (i.e. underperforming retail providers). From step , the process  proceeds to step .","At step , an actionable plan is developed. With respect to the unpenetrated retail providers and the underperforming retail providers identified at step , the actionable plan typically specifies steps designed to extend the existing product's distribution and\/or improve product marketing. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the actionable plan is validated by sales staff. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the actionable plan is implemented via proposals to the underperforming retail providers and the unpenetrated retail providers. Each proposal can include, for example, rates of sale and VPO for the model market to which a particular underperforming or unpenetrated retail provider belongs. Each proposal can further include projected profit gains. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , results of the actionable plan are reviewed and monitored for additional growth opportunities. From step , the process  ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["600","100","600","600","602"]},"At step , a benchmark product is selected from among existing products that are described by a product-naming convention such as, for example, the product-naming convention implemented by the product-optimization system  of . For example, with respect to , the benchmark product may be selected at the item level . The benchmark product is generally a product that is considered to be comparable to the new product. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , sales of the benchmark product are filtered according to model market. For example, model markets may be listed and sorted by rate of sales per store or VPO. The model markets may also be compared by way of a graph that depicts a distribution curve. Model markets having a high rate of sales or VPO relative to others may be considered top model markets. Top retail providers within the top model markets may represent an initial target list for the new product. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the model markets (and its retail providers) are assessed. Assessment typically involves identifying additional retail providers for the initial target list that do not currently sell the benchmark product (i.e., unpenetrated retail providers). From step , the process  proceeds to step .","At step , an actionable plan is developed. The actionable plan typically specifies steps designed to market the new product to the retail providers in the initial target list. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the actionable plan is validated by sales staff. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the actionable plan is implemented via proposals to retail providers on the initial target list. Each proposal can include, for example, rates of sale and VPO for the benchmark product in a model market to which a particular retail provider belongs. Each proposal can further include projected profit gains for the new product. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , results of the actionable plan are reviewed and monitored for growth opportunities. From step , the process  ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 4, 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["700","400","500","600","6","112","110","700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["800","100","800","102","106","800","818","802","818","800","804","818","802"]},"The main memory  also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of the instructions to be executed by the processor . The computer system  further includes a read-only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to the bus  for storing static information and instructions for the processor . A computer-readable storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, is coupled to the bus  for storing information and instructions for the processor . The computer system  may be coupled via the bus  to a display , such as a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT), for displaying information to a user. An input device , including, for example, alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to the bus  for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control , such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direct information and command selections to the processor  and for controlling cursor movement on the display . The cursor control  typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes, a first axis (e.g., x) and a second axis (e.g., y), that allow the device to specify positions in a plane.","The term \u201ccomputer readable instructions\u201d as used above refers to any instructions that may be performed by the processor  and\/or other component of the computer system . Similarly, the term \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d refers to any storage medium that may be used to store the computer readable instructions. Such a medium may take many forms, including, but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as the storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as the main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire, and fiber optics, including wires of the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD ROM, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Various forms of the computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system  can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector coupled to the bus  can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and place the data on the bus . The bus  carries the data to the main memory , from which the processor  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the main memory  may optionally be stored on the storage device  either before or after execution by the processor .","The computer system  may also include a communication interface  coupled to the bus . The communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling between the computer system  and a network. For example, the communication interface  may be an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card or a modem used to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example, the communication interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card used to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation, the communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic, optical, or other signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. The storage device  can further include instructions for carrying out various processes for image processing as described herein when executed by the processor . The storage device  can further include a database for storing data relative to same.","Although various embodiments of the method and apparatus of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description, it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed, but is capable of numerous rearrangements, modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the system and method of the present invention may be obtained by reference to the following Detailed Description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying Drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A-3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
