---
title: Multiplexer for a TX/RX capacitance sensing panel
abstract: An embodiment of a multiplexer circuit may include a plurality of Preceive (RX) channel outputs and a plurality of Qpins, where Qis greater than P. Each of a first subset and a third subset of the plurality of Qpins may be switchably coupled to at least one of the plurality of RX channels, each of a second subset of the plurality of Qpins is switchably coupled to two of the plurality of RX channels, and for each possible subset of Pcontiguous pins from the plurality of Qpins, each pin in the possible subset may be switchably coupled to a different RX channel output of the plurality of RX channel outputs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09377905&OS=09377905&RS=09377905
owner: PARADE TECHNOLOGIES, LTD.
number: 09377905
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120127
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/491,809, filed on May 31, 2011, which is hereby incorporated by reference.","This disclosure relates to the field of touch-sensors and, in particular, to a multiplexor for connecting a capacitance measuring device to a capacitive sensor array.","Computing devices, such as notebook computers, personal data assistants (PDAs), kiosks, and mobile handsets, have user interface devices, which are also known as human interface devices (HID). One user interface device that has become more common is a touch-sensor pad (also commonly referred to as a touchpad). A basic notebook computer touch-sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer (PC) mouse. A touch-sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built-in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates X\/Y movement using a collection of capacitive sensor elements, arranged along two defined axes, which detect the presence or proximity of one or more conductive objects, such as a finger. Mouse right\/left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical or capacitive-sensed buttons, located in the vicinity of the touchpad, or by tapping commands on the touch-sensor pad itself. The touch-sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer, or selecting an item on a display. These touch-sensor pads may include multi-dimensional sensor arrays for determining movement of the conductive object in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one-dimensional sensor array, detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional, detecting movements in two axes.","Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens, also known as touchscreens, touch windows, touch panels, or touchscreen panels, are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure-sensitive (resistive or piezoelectric), electrically-sensitive (capacitive), acoustically-sensitive (surface acoustic wave (SAW)) or photo-sensitive (infra-red). Such overlays allow a display to be used as an input device, removing the keyboard and\/or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the displayed image's content. Such displays can be attached to computers or, as terminals, to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings, on point-of-sale systems, on ATMs, on mobile handsets, on kiosks, on game consoles, and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface (GUI) and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch-sensor pad to manipulate data. For example, a user can apply a single touch, by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen, to select an item from a menu.","The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems, components, methods, and so forth, in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art, however, that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus, the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.","In one embodiment, a capacitive sensor array having multiple sensor elements may be connected to a multi-channel capacitance measuring device having fewer channels than the number of sensor elements in the sensor array. In one embodiment, the multiplexer may be used to measure the self-capacitance for each of the sensor elements in the sensor array, or may be used to measure a mutual capacitance between pairs of sensor elements. In one embodiment, a multiplexer circuit used to connect such a multi-channel capacitance measuring device to the sensor array may include a number of receive (RX) channel outputs. For example, a multiplexer having Nreceive channel outputs may be used to connect the RX channels of a capacitance measuring device with sensor elements of a capacitive sensor array through a number of Mpins, where Mis greater than N.","In one embodiment, each of the Mpins of the multiplexer may be coupled via switch to at least one of the RX channel outputs, with a subset of the Mpins being connected via additional switches to two or more of the RX channel outputs. For example, each pin of a first subset and a third subset of the Mpins may be switchably connected (connected via one or more switches) to one of the RX channel outputs, while each of a second subset of pins may be switchably connected to two of the RX channel outputs.","In one embodiment, the multi-channel capacitance sensing device may be configured to perform successive window scans of the capacitive sensor array, where each window scan includes a capacitance measurement for a subset of the sensor elements. In one embodiment, the successive scanned windows may move to follow a tracked object, such as a finger. Thus, in one embodiment, for each possible subset of Ncontiguous pins, each pin is connected via switch to a different RX channel output, so that the capacitance measurements for a window scan of up to Nsensor elements may each be performed using a different RX channel. Thus, the capacitance measurements may be performed within a single scan pass, since the measurements may be performed in parallel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","116","101","121","100","116","110","150","116","121","116"]},"In one embodiment, the sensor array  includes sensor elements ()-(N) (where N is a positive integer) that are disposed as a two-dimensional matrix (also referred to as an XY matrix). The sensor array  is coupled to pins ()-(N) of the processing device  via one or more analog buses  transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment, each sensor element ()-(N) is represented as a capacitor.","In one embodiment, the capacitance sensor  may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor  may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device  may further include software components to convert the count value (e.g., capacitance value) into a sensor element detection decision (also referred to as switch detection decision) or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance, such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement, resistor-capacitor charge timing, capacitive bridge divider, charge transfer, successive approximation, sigma-delta modulators, charge-accumulation circuits, field effect, mutual capacitance, frequency shift, or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however, instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold, the capacitance sensor  may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example, in the capacitance sensor  having a sigma-delta modulator, the capacitance sensor  is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output, instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.","In one embodiment, the processing device  further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic  may be implemented in firmware; alternatively, it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic  may receive signals from the capacitance sensor , and determine the state of the sensor array , such as whether a conductive object (e.g., a finger) is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array  (e.g., determining the presence of the object), where the object is detected on the sensor array (e.g., determining the location of the object), tracking the motion of the object, or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.","In another embodiment, instead of performing the operations of the processing logic  in the processing device , the processing device  may send the raw data or partially-processed data to the host . The host , as illustrated in , may include decision logic  that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic  may be implemented in firmware, hardware, software, or a combination thereof. The host  may include a high-level Application Programming Interface (API) in applications  that perform routines on the received data, such as compensating for sensitivity differences, other compensation algorithms, baseline update routines, start-up and\/or initialization routines, interpolation operations, or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic  may be implemented in the decision logic , the applications , or in other hardware, software, and\/or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments, the processing device  is the host .","In another embodiment, the processing device  may also include a non-sensing actions block . This block  may be used to process and\/or receive\/transmit data to and from the host . For example, additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device  along with the sensor array  (e.g., keyboard, keypad, mouse, trackball, LEDs, displays, or other peripheral devices).","The processing device  may reside on a common carrier substrate such as, for example, an integrated circuit (IC) die substrate, or a multi-chip module substrate. Alternatively, the components of the processing device  may be one or more separate integrated circuits and\/or discrete components. In one embodiment, the processing device  may be the Programmable System on a Chip (PSoC\u2122) processing device, developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, San Jose, Calif. Alternatively, the processing device  may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art, such as a microprocessor or central processing unit, a controller, special-purpose processor, digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment, for example, the processing device  may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro-engines. Additionally, the processing device  may include any combination of general-purpose processing device(s) and special-purpose processing device(s).","In one embodiment, the electronic system  is implemented in a device that includes the touch-sensing surface  as the user interface, such as handheld electronics, portable telephones, cellular telephones, notebook computers, personal computers, personal data assistants (PDAs), kiosks, keyboards, televisions, remote controls, monitors, handheld multi-media devices, handheld video players, gaming devices, control panels of a household or industrial appliances, or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively, the electronic system  may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system  may include all the components described above. Alternatively, electronic system  may include only some of the components described above, or include additional components not listed herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["220","101","218","220","220","101","100","220","225","222","223","225","101","212","213"]},"Capacitance sensor  includes multiplexer control , demultiplexer  and multiplexer , clock generator , signal generator , demodulation circuit , and analog to digital converter (ADC) . ADC  is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter  may be implemented in the processing logic .","The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix  may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections, while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus, each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example, transmit electrode  is capacitively coupled with receive electrode  at the point where transmit electrode  and receive electrode  overlap.","Clock generator  supplies a clock signal to signal generator , which produces a TX signal  to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment, the signal generator  includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal  by periodically connecting the output of signal generator  to a first voltage and then to a second voltage, wherein said first and second voltages are different.","The output of signal generator  is connected with demultiplexer , which allows the TX signal  to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment, multiplexer control  controls demultiplexer  so that the TX signal  is applied to each transmit electrode  in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer  may also be used to ground, float, or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal  is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal  may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes  and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes , wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .","Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes, the TX signal  applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance, when the TX signal  is applied to transmit electrode  through demultiplexer , the TX signal  induces an RX signal  on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal  on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer  to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit  in sequence.","The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer  and multiplexer . To improve performance, multiplexer  may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix  to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration, wherein there is a 1-to-1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit  with receive electrodes, multiplexer  may not be present in the system.","When a conductive object, such as a finger, approaches the electrode matrix , the object causes a decrease in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example, if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode  and receive electrode , the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes  and . Thus, the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal  was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.","By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix , the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential, in parallel, or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes or intersections.","In alternative embodiments, other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes, which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example, a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected.","The induced current signal  is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit  can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .","A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensors or intersections may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array  by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .","In one embodiment, the capacitance sensor  can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for the detection and location resolution of multiple touches uses a two-axis implementation: one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes, such as a diagonal axis, implemented on the surface or using additional layers, can allow resolution of additional touches.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["300","320","320","331","340","341","348","331","348","310","101","310","320","320","320"]},"In one embodiment, the processing device  is connected to a host  which may receive the measured capacitances or calculated centroid locations from the processing device .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","401","402","400","400","403","405"]},"Within the integrated circuit , as illustrated in , some subset of the bonding pads may be allowed to connect to the analog multiplexer bus  through a series of analog switches, such as analog switch . The analog switches may be controlled by state machines, or by a central processing unit (CPU) contained within the integrated circuit device . In one embodiment, the analog switches may be implemented as transmission gates or a similar construct. The analog switches may not be mutually exclusive, such that one or more of the switches may be closed at any time, or none of the switches may be closed. In one embodiment, a closed analog switch, such as switch , may allow bidirectional flow of current, charge, and voltage between the external package pins and any circuits connected to the multiplexer bus  within the integrated circuit device .","As illustrated in , the multiplexer bus  may be implemented near the bonding pads and input\/output (I\/O) structures of the die. In one embodiment, the multiplexer bus  may be implemented as an open-ended structure, as illustrated; alternatively, the bus  may form a complete circuit or loop around the entire integrated circuit device . In one embodiment where the multiplexer bus  carries low-level analog signals, the bus  may be shielded within the die by ground or virtual ground traces around the multiplexer bus .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","400","501","400","501"]},"The integrated circuit device , capacitive sensor array , and the traces connecting the device  and the sensor array  may be placed according to any of several different arrangements to minimize the cost and mechanical complexity of assembly. In one embodiment, this may be facilitated by an analog multiplexer bus  having a fully populated matrix of switches, wherein all available sensing pins may be connected to all available sensing engines. Relative to the embodiment in , since there is only a single sensing engine, only a single switch is required at each pin to fully populate the switch matrix.","In one embodiment, a portable or hand-held electronic device may have a touchscreen and sensor array that is centered around a long axis of the device. Such an arrangement may implement split routing to connect the pins of the capacitance sensing integrated circuit device  with the sensor array , where approximately half of the row sensor electrodes are connected and routed along the left edge of the touchscreen, and the remaining row sensor electrodes are routed along the opposite edge of the touchscreen, as illustrated in . This layout may be implemented without trace crossovers, and may be routed on a single layer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["601","602"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","700","701","708","701","708","700","701","708","701","708"]},"In one embodiment, each pad of the integrated circuit device  may connect to two analog buses, with the first analog bus supporting the TX function and the second analog bus supporting the connection between the sense channel and the sensor electrode. In one embodiment, these analog buses may be dedicated to a particular sense channel and may provide localized connections within a short distance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5","FIG. 8","FIG. 7","FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 5"],"b":["800","700","801","501","700","701","708","700","700"]},"In one embodiment, a touchscreen system may maximize the speed at which a full capacitance measurement scan of the sensor array is performed by using as many sensing channels in parallel as possible. Since the capacitive sensor array  includes 11 column sensor electrodes to connect to RX sense channels - (numbered from 0 to 7) and the integrated circuit device  includes eight sense channels -, the device  will use at least two passes to measure a capacitance for all columns.","In an alternative embodiment, fewer than all of the sensing channels - may be used to measure capacitances from the sensor array . For example, one implementation may use only six of the total RX channels to measure the screen, covering six columns in a first pass and re-using five of these same RX channels in the second pass. For normal fine scan operations (wherein all row\/column intersections of the sensor array  are measured for changes in mutual capacitance), such a 6\/5 split would provide a more constant power dissipation as compared to scanning a first set of eight columns followed by a second set of three columns. Power while sensing is roughly composed of an approximately constant TX power, plus the power from the number of RX channels enabled. Thus the most even power loading occurs by using only six RX channels for the first pass, and five for the second pass (totaling ). Because there are a total of 16 rows to be driven by the TX signal, and two passes are required to measure the associated columns, the capacitance sensing system  as illustrated in  may perform 32 sense operations to measure all intersections, which may be constant regardless of whether the columns are allocated to RX sense channels in combinations of 8\/3, 7\/4, or 6\/5.","In one embodiment, a capacitance sensing integrated circuit may utilize a more intelligent window scanning method to scan for changes in capacitances only within a portion, or window, of a touchscreen around an area where a finger or other conductive object is located. In one embodiment, the boundaries of the window are determined by a last known location of a conductive object being tracked.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"801"},"In one embodiment, the capacitance sensing integrated circuit to sensor electrode connections must be managed on both X and Y axes to optimally support both self and mutual capacitance capabilities. For instance, both self and mutual capacitance measurements may be used to support water identification and rejection functions.","For example,  illustrates a remapping of the row connections illustrated in . In one embodiment, a capacitance sensing system  has sensor array  having 16 total rows and divides the connections into two balanced groups of eight, wherein each group of eight rows may also be switched to non-overlapping windows of RX sensing channels. Within each of the two groups of eight, connections are made such that each RX sense channel is used only once. Any other combination would add a third measurement pass to this axis of the sensor array.","In one embodiment, a sliding window may be implemented that supports self-capacitance scanning with windowing of both rows and columns. A capacitance sensing device may use this method, for example, to permit water rejection functions around touches located using finger tracking.","The row connections as illustrated in  are arranged to support a fully sequential mapping to the RX measurement channels. From top to bottom, the rows of capacitive sensor array  are connected to sense channels 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, respectively. By this arrangement, it is possible to select any contiguous group of eight adjacent row sensor electrodes and measure them in parallel. The trace routing of capacitance sensing system  is yet more complex than the routing of sensing system , illustrated in .","In one embodiment, with both columns and rows supporting sequential capacitance measurement, it is also possible to measure mutual capacitances by driving (TX) the vertical columns and measuring the coupled charge onto the rows. Since the rows (in this configuration) allow a more efficient use of the RX channels, it is actually possible to measure the touchscreen faster. For a capacitive sensor array having 16 rows, the entire touchscreen may be measured in two passes just as before, but now all eight RX channel are used in each measurement (instead of six or five as in the configuration illustrated in ). By driving (TX) the columns and measuring (RX) the rows it is possible to complete measuring the mutual capacitance on this same exemplary screen in only 22 sets of parallel measurements (as compared to the 32 measurements when driving the rows and measuring the columns as in ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1003","1001","1002","1000","1001","1000","1001","1001"]},"In one embodiment, a single TX driver may be switchably connected to each of the column sensor electrodes in the sensor array ; alternatively, the system  may include a TX driver for each TX-capable pin.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1101","1102","1101","1103","1101","1102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1200","1201","1200","1202","1203"]},"In one embodiment, devices implementing the foregoing pin layouts are optimally routed when the device is placed in a particular position relative to the capacitive sensor array.","For touch controller systems that support a small number of mutual capacitance sensing channels, and where the RX measuring circuits also only connect to the narrow end of the capacitive sensor array, there are three physical placements of the touch controller relative to the touchscreen, according to an embodiment. These are illustrated in . The right layout  includes a touch controller device  that is placed in line with a right side of the touchscreen . The center layout  includes a touch controller  that is placed along a central axis of the touchscreen . The left layout  includes a touch controller  that is placed along a left edge of the touchscreen .","In one embodiment, the capacitance sensing device , as illustrated in , for example, may be optimally routed according to a central layout ; however, the same device  may have approximately half of its TX driver connections routed across RX lines if routed according to either the left layout  or right layout . The controller device , as illustrated in  would be optimally routed according to the left layout , but would have to route many or all of the TX signals across the RX lines for either the center layout  or right layout .","In one embodiment, a capacitance sensing device that is capable of measuring both (or either of) rows and columns, which requires connection of the RX sensing circuits to all electrodes of both rows and columns, there are six placements for a touch controller. These placements include the right , left , and center  layouts, as illustrated in , in addition to a variant of each wherein the columns are measured for mutual capacitance or the rows are measured for mutual capacitance (these same rows and columns may also be measured for self-capacitance if supported by the touch controller).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1400","1401","1400","1402","1400"],"sub":["TOTAL ","TOTAL ","TOTAL ","TOTAL "]},"A fully-populated switch structure such as that of multiplexer  would allow connection of any touch screen electrode to any RX sense channel (or any pin to a TX driver). To support eight RX channels across 32 sense-capable pins would require 256 addressable switches, in addition to those required for TX support.","In one embodiment, this large number of switches may consume significant area on the die. Note that each switch may also require registers to select\/maintain their state, plus decoders, buffers, etc. for each register. Each switch may also add capacitance to its respective bus. In one embodiment, these switches may also be updated each time there is a change in connectivity, incurring processing overhead for effecting these changes.","In one embodiment, the matrix illustrated in  may be significantly depopulated without losing performance. By only allowing connectivity of each RX sense channel to specific pins, wherein those pins occur in a modulo order on the device, a factor N reduction in switches can occur, where N is the number of RX sensing channels on the device.  illustrates an embodiment of a multiplexer  implementing such a depopulated matrix.","In contrast with multiplexer , multiplexer  has 32 switches to allow any consecutive set of N pins to connect adjacent sensor electrodes on the touchscreen and the N RX sense channels available. Thus when making measurements, an extra pass is never forced due to the presence of the same RX channel on sensor electrodes within that group.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 15"],"b":["1601","1602","1601","1602"]},"This depopulated structure in  allows meeting this criteria for five of the six possible placements. It does not meet this criteria for the 6th placement, that being center connected with RX sense channels connected to the left and right edges of the touch screen.  illustrates this 6th placement, according to an embodiment.","From top-to-bottom, the row connections of touchscreen  are mapped according to the following sequence: 7654321001234567. Within this sequence, the top and bottom ends can provide connections to a contiguous group of N (8) RX sense channels, but any other position would have two or more electrodes mapped to the same RX sense channel. This is because when wrapped to the left side of the touch screen the RX sense channels are sequenced in one order, and when mapped to the right side they are mapped in the opposite order.","In one embodiment, the 6placement may be managed by dropping a row of vias and adding a second routing layer to the circuit board used to connect between the touch controller  and the touch sensor . This would allow either the left or right edge connections to the touchscreen to be reversed. Alternatively, one embodiment may include more switches to the depopulated matrix of multiplexer , as illustrated in , such that either ascending or descending sequences are possible. An example of this embodiment is illustrated as multiplexer  in . Note that such a switch population approximately doubles the number of switches in the RX portion of the multiplexer.","In one embodiment, only a portion of the matrix has the ability to be connected in both directions to fully support all six possible placements. In one embodiment, this bi-directional portion is in the center area of pins. In one embodiment, the matrix includes only one such section, regardless of how many XY pins are present on the touchscreen controller, or how many RX sense channels are on the device. An embodiment of multiplexer  having an optimized matrix is shown in , with the bidirectional portion  including a small number of additional switches for reversing, such as reversal switch .","In one embodiment, the multiplexer circuit  includes Nreceive (RX) channel outputs and Mpins, where Mis greater than N. In one embodiment, each of the Mpins may be coupled to a TX signal source  via a number of switches .","In one embodiment, the Mpins may be grouped into subsets, where two or more subsets include pins that are each switchably coupled to one of the RX channels, while one subset of pins is switchably coupled to one of two of the RX channels. For example, each pin in the unidirectional sections  and  may be coupled via switch to one of the RX sense channels. In one embodiment, adjacent pins are each mapped to a different RX sense channel. In one embodiment, the mapping may be arranged to maximize the number of contiguous pins that are each mapped to a different RX sense channel. In one embodiment, for each possible subset of Ncontiguous pins from the plurality of Mpins, each pin in the possible subset is switchably coupled to a different RX sense channel output.","Bidirectional section  includes a subset of pins that may be coupled via switch to one of two of the RX sense channels. Notably, one pin (pin ) within the bidirectional section  may be coupled via switch to one RX sense channel rather than two, since this pin would be connected to the same RX sense channel when the pins are mapped in either ascending or descending channel order.","In one embodiment, a number P may identify a spatial ordinal position of an RX sense channel and Q may identify a spatial ordinal position of a pin within one of the first, second, or third subsets of pins. In other words, P and Q may be integers indicating the ordinal position in which a pin or channel is arranged spatially. Using this notation, every Qpin within a first subset may be switchably coupled to an (Q mod P)channel. An Qpin within the second subset may be switchably coupled to an ((Q\u2212Q) mod P)channel. An Qpin within a third subset may be switchably coupled to either of an (Q mod P)channel or an ((Q\u2212Q) mod P)channel.","In one embodiment, the sections , , and  may be seen as mapping regions, where within each mapping region, the pins may be mapped in different orders. For example, the pins within section  are mapped to RX sense channel outputs according to a first order, the pins in section  are mapped to RX sense channel outputs according to a second order that is the reverse of the first order, and the pins in section  are mapped to the RX sense channel outputs according to either the first or second orders.","In one embodiment, the pins may be assigned to RX channels as shown in Table 1. As shown in Table 1, there is no starting pin offset where the group of Pconsecutive pins cannot all be mapped to an open RX sense channel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"RX channel map"},{"entry":"through reversed region"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Starting","RX Sense"]},{"entry":[{},"XY Pin","Channel Map"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"08","01234567-------"]},{"entry":[{},"09","-12345670------"]},{"entry":[{},"10","--65432107-----"]},{"entry":[{},"11","---54321076----"]},{"entry":[{},"12","----43210765---"]},{"entry":[{},"13","-----32107654--"]},{"entry":[{},"14","------21076543-"]},{"entry":[{},"15","-------10765432"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"In one embodiment, the bidirectional reversal section  includes five additional switches over that of a unidirectional mapping. It is also possible to position these switches in other offsets in the matrix to serve the same purpose.","The structure illustrated in  is sufficient for mapping all standard self and mutual capacitance sensing modes. Architecturally, it is also extensible to more or fewer XY sense pins, or more or fewer RX channels, through simple rules. Any number of pins may be added or removed from the overall structure by doing so at either end. When adding pins, all that is needed is for the associated mux switch to support the next sequential RX channel.","The optimized multiplexer  may be used in a capacitance sensing system including a transmit (TX) signal generator and a plurality of Preceive (RX) channels. In one embodiment, the capacitance sensing system may include a capacitance sensor that is configured to measure a self-capacitance of a sensor electrode connected to at least one of the plurality of Qpins. In one embodiment, the capacitance sensing system may be configured to measure a mutual capacitance between a first sensor electrode coupled with a first pin of the of the plurality of Qpins and a second sensor electrode coupled with a second pin of the plurality of Qpins.","In one embodiment, a capacitance sensor may perform a window scan or series of window scans, where each window scan includes capacitance measurements for a set of contiguous sensor elements.","In one embodiment, entire blocks or groups of pins may be added or removed in the middle of a pin sequence. This arrangement may be used to accommodate mapping of a single die into different packages, where these alternate packages support more (or fewer) XY sense pins. By ensuring that any pins added or dropped occur modulo N (where N is the number of RX sense channels), this can be made transparent to the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["2000","2001","2002"]},"The additional pins  are located in the middle of the pin sequence, as compared to the previous embodiments. In one embodiment, the additional pins  may be added at any location in the sequence. In one embodiment, the number of pins in the additional group of pins is equal to the number of RX sense channels. In the illustrated example where there are eight RX channels, the number of pins added in the middle may be in multiples of eight. In one embodiment, the additional pins  may continue the sequence of RX channels such that the presence of the additional pins  is transparent to the user. If the additional pins  are not bonded out in a package, this example device appears to the user as 32 sequentially mapped XY sense pins. If these additional pins  are bonded out, the device appears as having 40 sequentially mapped XY sense pins.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["2100","2100"]},"In one embodiment, the pins  are XY sense pins that may be left unconnected when placed in a small package such as a 48-pin QFN, while when connected into a larger package (e.g., 80-pin or greater) all of these pins may be connected to support a much larger touch screen.","In one embodiment, a coarse scan of an array of sensor electrodes may include a series of group scans, where each group scan includes a number of simultaneous capacitance measurements for a set of contiguous sensor elements. In an alternative embodiment, the sensor elements in the group scan may be non-contiguous.","In one embodiment, a system supporting group scanning, either in addition to or as a replacement for finger tracking, may support the groups scanning by extending this same matrix through addition of group scanning switches , which are configured to connect each of the PRX channel outputs with each pin of a group of contiguous pins. In one embodiment, the multiplexer circuit  may support several such groups of contiguous pins. In one embodiment, the groups of contiguous pins may share pins in common. In other words, each group of contiguous pins may include one or more pins included in another group of contiguous pins, such that the groups overlap. The switches , as illustrated in , would support an overlapped coarse scan operation for groups that are four sense electrodes in width.","In one embodiment, a larger coarse scan group may also be supported. For example,  illustrates an embodiment of a multiplexer circuit  that has been extended (relative to the switch matrix of multiplexer circuit  in ) to support 4-wide coarse scanning when in small packages, and 5-wide coarse scanning when in wide packages. With minor modifications to the matrix, adjacent block scanning may also be supported.","The above-described embodiments focus primarily on the RX or sensing side of the implementation; however, similar enhancements may be made to the TX (charge forcing) side. As noted, the TX function drives charge through the mutual capacitance junctions shown in  and into and out of the RX sense electrodes. In one embodiment, the TX function includes a switch or driver capable of sourcing or sinking charge. Alternatively, the TX function may include a simple pair of transistors that switch between supply and ground, or may be a more complex circuit having constrained current sources, slope control, alternate supplies, charge pumps, and pre-drive circuits to speed up charging of the entire sense electrode connected to the sensing device pin.","In one embodiment, the TX function may be implemented using a digital output that provides a square wave. This is in effect a voltage-mode driver, wherein it continues to source or sink current (charge) until either the output has stabilized at a specific voltage level, or the control signals to the driver change state. In one embodiment, such a driver would exist at the pad, and before the multiplexer switch to connect that pad to an analog bus for measurement (as illustrated in ).","In one embodiment having two analog mux buses (or one analog bus capable of being segmented into two), specific pins connectable to a first analog bus may be allocated to support the TX function, while those same pins connectable to a second analog bus may be allocated to support the RX function. In this case, the selection of which pins drive a TX waveform may be determined by the construction of the sensing integrated circuit, and how a TX signal is connected to that first analog mux bus.","In one embodiment, such a device may also have generic GPIO (general purpose input\/output) drivers present at each pin (each independently programmable to source a static logic-1, high-Z, or logic-0). In this embodiment, it is also possible to use such GPIO circuits to ground (i.e., connect to logic-0) those sense electrodes not being used for TX, RX, active shield, or other capacitance sensing function. This method may be used so as to not allow a floating sensor to couple additional noise from the environment into adjacent sensors being measured.","In one embodiment, multiple RX sense channels may be included in a controller device (as illustrated in ) along with additional levels of programmability. In one embodiment, so as to not overdrive the linear circuits in the RX sense channel, various levels of slope control may be added to the driver(s). In one embodiment, this may be accomplished by current limiting the driver for both charge and discharge current paths. A second level of programmability may be the addition of true or complement phase selection, such that the phase of the modulation function (i.e., the TX driver), relative to that of the demodulation function (within each RX sense channel), could be selected as in phase or out of phase. This may permit some forms of differential or multiphase TX generation.","As illustrated in , in one embodiment, each RX sense channel may include its own local TX driver, where each TX driver is configurable independently of the others. This allows each channel to source either a true TX signal, complement TX signal, or no TX signal (in addition to a parallel GPIO or logic circuit, which allows a grounding function), depending on its programmed configuration. Because there are only four pins that each TX driver may be switched to, this also sets a limit on the total charge that each driver must be sized to support. In one embodiment, when programmed for maximum loading, a single TX driver may source and sink current into up to four sensor electrodes. In one embodiment, this configuration of TX drivers may all source the same phase of TX signal (i.e., true or complement).","In one embodiment of a controller device, instead of having a TX generator per RX channel, a single TX generator is used that is capable of sourcing both true and complement TX signals at the same time. An embodiment of such a TX generator is illustrated in . Key signals provided by this block are programmable amplitude true and complement TX signals, programmable amplitude active shield drive signals, and the ability to have them present at the same time.","The outputs of this TX generator block  are two signals: VTX  and VTX . The previous figures (e.g.,  and ) that include a TX bus only show a single such bus. In one embodiment, a second TX driver bus may be included to support the use of both true and complement TX signals, simultaneously, on multiple pins, for a distributed multiplexer. In one embodiment, the additional TX driver bus may also be switchable to all XY sense pins, as illustrated in . In one embodiment, the first and second TX signal drivers may each be switchably connected to each pin in each of the mapping regions , , and .","In one embodiment, the TX generator  includes a pump  generating 10V. The TX generator also includes two sets of high voltage switches  and  that are configured to switch the signals VTX  and VTX  to either the output of pump  or ground, thus controlling the charge and discharge of VTX  and VTX .","In one embodiment, the TX generator  may include a shield mode module , a limited mode module , and an unlimited mode module . Each of these modules may be used to cause the TX generator  to operate in a shield mode, a limited current mode, or an unlimited current mode, respectively. Switches  may be used to connect either of VTX  or VTX  with the signals generated by the modules , , or . High voltage switches  may be used to protect low voltage devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0132"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["2400","1","2301","2","2302","2404"]},"In one embodiment, a dual TX bus, such as that in , allows generation of multiple forms of TX signals. The first form is that of a single TX signal, where only one of the XY pins is switched to either the VTX or VTX bus.","The addition of the second TX bus (and associated VTX driver) allow other specialized modes of sensing to occur. While still considered a form of mutual capacitance sensing, what may be referred to as MC-SEB (mutual capacitance, single-electrode, balanced) requires the ability to drive approximately half the TX electrodes on one axis of the panel with a true TX signal, while the remainder are driven with a complement TX signal. In one embodiment, this is done such that the sum of the charge from the true TX pulses is approximately cancelled out by the matching complement TX pulses, and thus the coupled RX sensing channels see little if any difference in total magnitude of current from that of driving a single electrode.","In one embodiment, this MC-SEB measurement mode has the advantage of measuring primarily near-field capacitance effects. This makes it useful for resolving touches from a small conductive stylus while ignoring the shadow capacitance impact from the bulk of a nearby hand. Since this sense method measures signals coupled through all mutual capacitance intersections along a column (or row when the columns are driven), it operates similar to self-capacitance measurement methods, wherein both axes must be independently measured in order to resolve the location of a touch. This requires the ability to drive these true and complement patterns onto (alternately) both the rows and columns of the touch screen. Since TX driver capability is not present on all pins in devices implemented following the multiplexor structures shown in , or , they are all prevented from measuring either traditional self-capacitance of these touchscreens, or making use of this MC-SEB sense mode.","A more powerful form of sensing also makes use of multiple TX drivers at the same time, which may be referred to as multiphase TX or Multi-TX. This makes use of a near-balanced, yet pseudo random, sequence of true and complement TX pulse trains. This pattern is measured similar to normal single-TX measurements of mutual capacitance, and then the pattern is rotated, wherein different members of the same group of driven TX electrodes are carrying true and complement TX signals. Once the pattern has been shifted through all possible offsets, the measured results are mathematically de-convoluted to provide results with a numerical reduction in noise impact (i.e., an increase in SNR). While this capability does not require the ability to reverse the sensing matrix (as does MC-SEB), it does require the ability to simultaneously drive true TX signals onto some electrodes and complement TX signals onto other electrodes, and to be able to dynamically switch which of true and complement TX signal is presented to each electrode.","An active shield drive capability is also possible with the shield mode module (elements , , and ), as illustrated in , in combination with the multiplexer as illustrated in . When sensing for self-capacitance, the measured electrodes are moved up and down relative to a local ground, and the amount of charge that each electrode can store is measured. Because these electrodes do not exist in isolation, but are in close proximity to each other, there are also mutual capacitance elements that increase the total charge in and out of each electrode, while not providing any information on their self-capacitance. To remove the parasitic mutual-capacitance, those electrodes adjacent to those being measured may be moved up and down in voltage in approximately matched phase and amplitude to the ones being measured. By keeping them at the same potential, their capacitance influence drops to near zero.","In one embodiment, when sensing column sensors for self capacitance, the row sensors may be driven with approximately the same signal to minimize their capacitive impact. Likewise, any column electrode immediately to the left or right of the last one being measured may also be driven with this shield signal. As seen in , the shield drive signals may be switched to the same VTX  and VTX  buses as the normal TX signals used for mutual capacitance sensing. Since this is a self-capacitance measurement, for which both row and column sensors may be measured, this active shield capability may also have the ability to assert the shield drive signal on any of the pins. Since no TX signal (true or complement) is used during self capacitance sensing, both VTX and VTX buses are available during this sensing.","In one embodiment, for environments where the parasitic or self capacitance element of the sensor dominates, such as in some of the newer in-cell sense electrode placements, a hybrid sense mode called APA-MC-BC (all-point-addressable mutual capacitance sensing with baseline compensation) may be used which makes use of a single active TX driver, but also a shield driver. This drives an active shield signal to any RX electrodes that are not coupled to RX channels, such that they all see an equivalent sensing environment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["2500","2501","2502","2503","2503","2504","2501","2502","2505","2506"]},"The two upper high voltage (10V in this example) switches  block or pass the TX1 or TX2 transmit signals when the pad  is connected for transmit mode. When the transmit mode is enabled, the receive paths are blocked by having the lower switch () in an open state. This prevents high voltage signaling from reaching the lower voltage receive circuitry. One high voltage tolerant signal (connected to switch ()) blocks the 10V signals from the lower voltage RX switches and the internal RX channel circuitry.","Because a sense operation may end with 10V driven out on some pads, in one embodiment such as that using the 10V tolerant FET to ground connected to pad  in , the pads may be discharged to a low voltage initial state such as ground before new paths are enabled.  illustrates a process for accomplishing this, according to an embodiment. The 10V tolerant discharge device is used to drive the pad low while all switches are disabled (open). After that, a TX or RX path can be safely selected and the next operation can start from a known initial state. At block , the process  begins by driving the pad with a TX signal. From block , the process  continues at block , where the TX switches are opened. Subsequently, a discharge FET is driven to reinitialize the pad, at block . The discharge is stopped at block  and a new switch is selected at block .","In one embodiment, the interface cell  supports multiplexing the pad  between the following","(a) a number of TX channels (For example, two in )","(b) RX channels as needed to support configurations such as the multiplexer  (of )","(c) an \u201cLX\u201d channel for connecting to a common line, in this case for listening for noise","(d) a path for passing digital signals. For example, a digital input signal  may be enabled using a digital enable signal .","In one embodiment, one path is selectable at a time (or all paths unselected), while in special modes multiple paths may be selected to support, for example, test modes. In one embodiment, the interface cell may contain logic operating at various voltage levels as needed; in the interface cell , for example, there may be signals at 10V, 3V to 5V, and 1.8V levels.","In one embodiment, silicon efficiency, both in terms of area and design, may be achieved through the use of regular and repetitive structures. In one embodiment, each package pin of a device having a multiplexer such as multiplexer  may be connected to a maximum of three RX sense channels, in addition to connections to true and complement TX drivers and a noise monitoring LX sense channel.","In one embodiment, similar advantages can be had without exceeding the native oxide breakdown of the transistors. In one such an embodiment, the high-voltage isolation switch () separating the TX (high-voltage) and low-voltage domains may be removed. Once this is done, it may also be possible to integrate standard logic-interface or analog-interface circuits with the IO structures. For example, each XY sense pin may be configurable to be used for GPIO capability.","In one embodiment, the switch matrix function may be eliminated if each pin were directly coupled to a TX and RX sense block. In an embodiment where the analog elements for this are small enough to integrate into the IO, the depopulated switch matrix and multiplexer may be removed. The same function may then occur completely at the logical level by controlling which TX or RX circuits are enabled (rather than having most or all RX circuits used all the time). In an alternative embodiment, switches may be implemented independently of the IO.","In one embodiment, a distributed TX driver environment may be implemented, wherein instead of adding analog switches at each pin to connect to separate VTX and VTX TX or shield signal buses, a TX driver capable of driving one TX line could be implemented at each pin. In that case, only the lower power control signals need be routed to each XY pin supporting a TX function.","Relative to the shielding of the analog buses, for isolation at the highest level, each RX bus line could in one embodiment be fully shielded from neighboring RX bus lines. At higher numbers of RX bus signals, it may also be possible to add segmentation switches to the bus to allow a smaller number of bus lines to be used, without reducing the needed connectivity. Note that by segmenting a single analog bus using analog switches, the same bus can be used by more than one RX sensing channel at the same time.","In one embodiment, the above-described multiplexer embodiments may be applied to touch pads or other capacitive sensing surfaces. In one embodiment, similar structures may also be used for measuring resistive matrices.","In one embodiment, adding more channels may entail continuing the bus around the die perimeter. In an alternative embodiment, based on having sufficient RX channels to always measure the narrow-end of the panel in a single pass, the RX bus width may be cut in half (relative to a multiplexer such as multiplexer  in ). In one embodiment, this division of the bus into two parts may be used when the device is center-connected to the panel.","In one embodiment, a multiplexer circuit may support touchscreen panels where a fine scan of at least one of the X and Y axes may be performed in a single pass, such that a split routing may be used. An example of split routing is illustrated in the center layout  in .","In one embodiment, a multiplexer circuit may move the RX channels to the center, routing a first half of such RX channels to the left and a second half to the right such that a non-overlapped sliding window structure may be used. In an alternative embodiment, the multiplexer need not support windowing on the short axis when a sufficient number of RX channels are present to allow single-pass fine scanning.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0155","num":"0154"},"figref":"FIG. 27","b":["2700","2700","2701","2702"]},"In one embodiment, by allocating one of these channels as an LX channel  (for noise synchronization) the remaining 10 channels can be split such that five are allocated to service the left half of the controller and touchscreen, and the remaining five serve the right half of the controller and touchscreen. For flexibility of monitoring, the multiplexer  may provide the LX channel  with access to all sides of the device, as shown in . In one embodiment, the LX channel  may be connectable to all XY sense pins, allowing it to expand the end (left or right) of any group of 10 XY pins to be used as an 11th sense channel.","In one embodiment, a touch screen controller device may include TX drivers that are built into the XY pads. In one embodiment, the shield driver is common to all of the XY IO structures, as is the connection to the LX channel. In one embodiment, these connections may be mapped to a touch panel, with the narrow part of the panel connected in the center, resulting in connections similar to those illustrated in .  illustrates a possible set of connections between the XY pins of the multiplexer  and a touchscreen , according to an embodiment.","In one embodiment, the columns connected at the narrow end of touchscreen  in  can be measured in a single pass, since all of the column sensor elements can be connected to different RX channels. As shown in , the RX channel mappings (from left to right) for this implementation would be 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9, respectively. To measure for self or mutual capacitance along the rows, the mapped order of the RX channels (from bottom to top) in  would be 4, 3, 2, 1, 0, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0, and 5, respectively. This configuration may be used to map a sliding window using all available RX channels across the entire width of the panel with no RX channel existing twice within the same window.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0158"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 27"],"b":["2700","2900","2900"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0160","num":"0159"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30"],"b":["2700","3000","3000"]},"In one embodiment, the layout illustrated in  may be used for applications such as charger noise handling, wherein all sensors on each axis are measured at the same time to allow correlated handling of charger noise.","As illustrated in , the RX channel utilization (from bottom to top) for this mapping is 43, 56, 21, 78, 04, 95, 32, and 67, respectively (with commas removed to show pairing). In one embodiment, this sequence may be extended to 36 sensors and 14 pairs of sensor elements, resulting in the mapping 10, 89, 43, 56, 21, 78, 04, 95, 32, 67, 10, 89, 43, and 56, respectively.","In one embodiment, additional pairing switches may then be mapped into the switch matrix of a multiplexer , as illustrated in , which is connected to the touch screen . In , the additional switches are shown with a bold outline. In one embodiment, the multiplexer  may have a maximum of one more switch for each pin. By closing switches on each pair of adjacent pins such that they are connected to a common RX channel for a measurement, multiplexer  may be able to measure a set of 20 pins using 10 RX channels in a single pass with time correlated results.","In one embodiment, a multiplexer  may have a set of innermost pins (XY-XY) that do not have the additional pairing switches. This set of innermost pins may be used with connections to the narrow edge of touch sensors that may not need 20 row sensors; thus, other unused row connections can be used to implement the pairing.","In one embodiment, the multiplexer  may be used for an implementation where the number of touch panel columns to the left or right of center is an odd number.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0165"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 33"],"b":["3200","3300","00","35","3300"]},"As seen in , bottom to top pairings of sensor elements now have default connections to RX channels 04, 95, 32, 67, 10, 89, 43, 56, 21, 78, 04, 95, 32, 67 (with commas removed to show pairings). The switches  are added to support even mappings, where the touchscreen has an even number of columns. Switches  are added to support odd mappings, where the touchscreen has an odd number of columns.","According to this embodiment, a panel consisting of a left and right half, with each half consisting of either an even or odd number of columns, can have its left and right sides mapped to one of the two sequences of pairings, represented by the sets of switches  and .","Embodiments of the present invention, described herein, include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components, software, firmware, or a combination thereof. As used herein, the term \u201ccoupled to\u201d may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally, the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.","Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer-readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general-purpose or special-purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form (e.g., software, processing application) readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). The computer-readable storage medium may include, but is not limited to, magnetic storage medium (e.g., floppy diskette); optical storage medium (e.g., CD-ROM); magneto-optical storage medium; read-only memory (ROM); random-access memory (RAM); erasable programmable memory (e.g., EPROM and EEPROM); flash memory, or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.","Additionally, some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer-readable medium is stored on and\/or executed by more than one computer system. In addition, the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.","Although the operations of the method(s) herein are shown and described in a particular order, the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed, at least in part, concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment, instructions or sub-operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and\/or alternating manner.","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present disclosure is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 33"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
