---
title: Setting up network parameters after an idle handoff of an access terminal in a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, an access terminal detects that the access network has completed an idle handoff to a new access network (e.g., a new base station of a cellular network, etc.). The access terminal begins an idle handoff timer with a given expiration period in response to the detection. The access terminal eventually determines that the idle handoff timer has expired. In response to the expiration determination and before the access terminal is paged in the new access network, the access terminal sends at least one data packet to request set-up of network parameters for the access terminal within the new access network that are sufficient to permit the access terminal to receive session announcement messages within the new access network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420500&OS=09420500&RS=09420500
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09420500
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120905
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","Embodiments relate to managing setting up network parameters after an idle handoff of an access terminal in a wireless communications system.","2. Description of the Related Art","Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations, including a first-generation analog wireless phone service (1G), a second-generation (2G) digital wireless phone service (including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks) and a third-generation (3G) high speed data, Internet-capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use, including Cellular and Personal Communications Service (PCS) systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS), and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), the Global System for Mobile access (GSM) variation of TDMA, and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.","The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association\/Electronic Industries Association in TIA\/EIA\/IS-95-A entitled \u201cMobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System,\u201d referred to herein as IS-95. Combined AMPS & CDMA systems are described in TIA\/EIA Standard IS-98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT-2000\/UM, or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000\/Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA (W-CDMA), CDMA2000 (such as CDMA2000 1xEV-DO standards, for example) or TD-SCDMA.","In an embodiment, an access terminal detects that the access network has completed an idle handoff to a new access network (e.g., a new base station of a cellular network, etc.). The access terminal begins an idle handoff timer with a given expiration period in response to the detection. The access terminal eventually determines that the idle handoff timer has expired. In response to the expiration determination and before the access terminal is paged in the new access network, the access terminal sends at least one data packet to request set-up of network parameters for the access terminal within the new access network that are sufficient to permit the access terminal to receive session announcement messages within the new access network.","Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally, well-known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise, the term \u201cembodiments of the invention\u201d does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature, advantage or mode of operation.","The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein, the singular forms \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d and \u201cthe\u201d are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms \u201ccomprises,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincludes,\u201d and\/or \u201cincluding,\u201d when used herein, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and\/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and\/or groups thereof.","Further, many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by, for example, elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits (e.g., application specific integrated circuits (ASICs)), by program instructions being executed by one or more processors, or by a combination of both. Additionally, these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus, the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms, all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition, for each of the embodiments described herein, the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as, for example, \u201clogic configured to\u201d perform the described action.","A High Data Rate (HDR) subscriber station, referred to herein as user equipment (UE), may be mobile or stationary, and may communicate with one or more access points (APs), which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller (RNC). The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network (RAN). A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.","The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network, such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet, the Internet, public switched telephone network (PSTN), a Serving General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) Support Node (SGSN), a Gateway GPRS Support Node (GGSN), and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE, and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel (TCH) connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card, compact flash device, external or internal modem, or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B(s) is called an uplink channel (e.g., a reverse traffic channel, a control channel, an access channel, etc.). The communication link through which Node B(s) send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel (e.g., a paging channel, a control channel, a broadcast channel, a forward traffic channel, etc.). As used herein the term traffic channel (TCH) can refer to either an uplink\/reverse or downlink\/forward traffic channel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","120","102","126","102","108","110","112","102","108","110","112"]},"Referring back to , the components of the wireless communications system  and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System  is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs, such as wireless client computing devices , , ,  to communicate over-the-air between and among each other and\/or between and among components connected via the air interface  and RAN , including, without limitation, core network , the Internet, PSTN, SGSN, GGSN and\/or other remote servers.","The RAN  controls messages (typically sent as data packets) sent to a RNC . The RNC  is responsible for signaling, establishing, and tearing down bearer channels (i.e., data channels) between a Serving General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) Support Node (SGSN) and the UEs \/\/\/. If link layer encryption is enabled, the RNC  also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC  is well-known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network  may communicate with the RNC  by a network, the Internet and\/or a public switched telephone network (PSTN). Alternatively, the RNC  may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically, the network or Internet connection between the core network  and the RNC  transfers data, and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC  can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network , the RNC  is typically connected to the Node Bs  by a network, the Internet and\/or PSTN for data transfer and\/or voice information. The Node Bs  can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs, such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs , RNC  and other components may form the RAN , as is known in the art. However, alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example, in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC  and one or more of the Node Bs  may be collapsed into a single \u201chybrid\u201d module having the functionality of both the RNC  and the Node B(s) .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","1","120"]},"UEs  and  connect to the RAN  at a portion served by a first packet data network end-point  (e.g., which may correspond to SGSN, GGSN, PDSN, a home agent (HA), a foreign agent (FA), PGW\/SGW in LTE, etc.). The first packet data network end-point  in turn connects, via the routing unit , and through the routing unit , to the Internet . Through the Internet , the UEs  and  can connect to an application server  that is configured to provide one or more Internet-based services (e.g., streaming video, web-browsing, etc.). Also, through the Internet , UEs  and  can connect to one or more of proxy servers  . . . N, . The proxy servers  . . . N  will be described in more detail below. Generally, each of the proxy servers  . . . N  functions as a gateway between UEs  . . . N and servers that provide Internet-based services, such as the application server . UEs  and  . . . N connect to the Internet  via a different air interface , such as a WiFi or IEEE 802.11 a\/b\/g\/n interface via a local wireless access point or hotspot. UE  connects directly to the Internet  via a wired connection (e.g., a LAN or Ethernet connection), and through the Internet  can then connect to any of the system components described above.","Referring to , UEs ,  and  . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell-phones, UE  is illustrated as a wireless tablet-and\/or laptop PC. However, in other embodiments, it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system  can connect to any type of UE, and the examples illustrated in  are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system.","Referring to , a UE , (here a wireless device), such as a cellular telephone, has a platform  that can receive and execute software applications, data and\/or commands transmitted from the RAN  that may ultimately come from the core network , the Internet  and\/or other remote servers and networks. The platform  can include a transceiver  operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit (\u201cASIC\u201d ), or other processor, microprocessor, logic circuit, or other data processing device. The ASIC  or other processor executes the application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d)  layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory  of the wireless device. The memory  can be comprised of read-only or random-access memory (RAM and ROM), EEPROM, flash cards, or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform  also can include a local database  that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database  is typically a flash memory cell, but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art, such as magnetic media, EEPROM, optical media, tape, soft or hard disk, or the like. The internal platform  components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna , display , push-to-talk button  and keypad  among other components, as is known in the art.","Accordingly, an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements, software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example, ASIC , memory , API  and local database  may all be used cooperatively to load, store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively, the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore, the features of the UE  in  are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.","The wireless communication between the UE  or  and the RAN  can be based on different technologies or transport mechanisms, such as code division multiple access (CDMA), W-CDMA, time division multiple access (TDMA), frequency division multiple access (FDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. Accordingly, the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","102","108","110","112","200","120","122","170","186","400"]},"Referring to , the communication device  includes logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information . In an example, if the communication device  corresponds to a wireless communications device (e.g., UE , Node B , etc.), the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can include a wireless communications interface (e.g., Bluetooth, WiFi, 2G, 3G, etc.) such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware (e.g., an RF antenna, a MODEM, a modulator and\/or demodulator, etc.). In another example, the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can correspond to a wired communications interface (e.g., a serial connection, a USB or Firewire connection, an Ethernet connection through which the Internet  can be accessed, etc.). Thus, if the communication device  corresponds to some type of network-based server (e.g., SGSN, GGSN, application server , etc.), the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can correspond to an Ethernet card, in an example, that connects the network-based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example, the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device  can monitor its local environment (e.g., an accelerometer, a temperature sensor, a light sensor, an antenna for monitoring local RF signals, etc.). The logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  to perform its reception and\/or transmission function(s). However, the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , the communication device  further includes logic configured to process information . In an example, the logic configured to process information  can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information  includes but is not limited to performing determinations, establishing connections, making selections between different information options, performing evaluations related to data, interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device  to perform measurement operations, converting information from one format to another (e.g., between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi, etc.), and so on. For example, the processor included in the logic configured to process information  can correspond to a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information  to perform its processing function(s). However, the logic configured to process information  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to process information  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , the communication device  further includes logic configured to store information . In an example, the logic configured to store information  can include at least a non-transitory memory and associated hardware (e.g., a memory controller, etc.). For example, the non-transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information  can correspond to RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information  to perform its storage function(s). However, the logic configured to store information  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to store information  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , the communication device  further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example, the logic configured to present information  can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example, the output device can include a video output device (e.g., a display screen, a port that can carry video information such as USB, HDMI, etc.), an audio output device (e.g., speakers, a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack, USB, HDMI, etc.), a vibration device and\/or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example, if the communication device  corresponds to UE  as shown in , the logic configured to present information  can include the display . In a further example, the logic configured to present information  can be omitted for certain communication devices, such as network communication devices that do not have a local user (e.g., network switches or routers, remote servers, etc.). The logic configured to present information  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information  to perform its presentation function(s). However, the logic configured to present information  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to present information  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , the communication device  further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example, the logic configured to receive local user input  can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example, the user input device can include buttons, a touch-screen display, a keyboard, a camera, an audio input device (e.g., a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack, etc.), and\/or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example, if the communication device  corresponds to UE  as shown in , the logic configured to receive local user input  can include the display  (if implemented a touch-screen), keypad , etc. In a further example, the logic configured to receive local user input  can be omitted for certain communication devices, such as network communication devices that do not have a local user (e.g., network switches or routers, remote servers, etc.). The logic configured to receive local user input  can also include software that, when executed, permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input  to perform its input reception function(s). However, the logic configured to receive local user input  does not correspond to software alone, and the logic configured to receive local user input  relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.","Referring to , while the configured logics of  through  are shown as separate or distinct blocks in , it will be appreciated that the hardware and\/or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example, any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of  through  can be stored in the non-transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information , such that the configured logics of  through  each performs their functionality (i.e., in this case, software execution) based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise, hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example, the processor of the logic configured to process information  can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information , such that the logic configured to receive and\/or transmit information  performs its functionality (i.e., in this case, transmission of data) based in part upon the operation of hardware (i.e., the processor) associated with the logic configured to process information .","It will be appreciated that the configured logic or \u201clogic configured to\u201d in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements, but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein (either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software). Thus, the configured logics or \u201clogic configured to\u201d as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word \u201clogic.\u201d Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.","An idle handoff between different access networks for a given UE can affect the paging success rate of pages directed to that UE. As used herein, idle handoffs correspond to handoffs that occur for an idle UE, i.e., a UE that is powered-on but does not have an traffic channel (TCH) on which the UE is engaged in an active communication session. For example, some access networks are configured not to send downlink data to its idle UEs until after a session negotiation procedure is conducted. The session negotiation procedure, which establishes network parameters for a particular idle UE for use within a new access network, is conventionally initiated in response to an uplink packet transmission (e.g., carrying a dummy packet that prompts network parameter negotiation or set-up) from that idle UE in the new access network. The uplink packet transmission to initiate the network parameter negotiation is conventionally triggered either on a periodic basis or in response to a page from the new access network. This conventional procedure is described below with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","505","505","510","515","515","520"]},"At , the given UE determines whether to initiate an idle handoff to a different access network (e.g., based on an evaluation of the relevant signal strengths of pilot signals from nearby access networks, based on an evaluation of backhaul performance expectations from nearby access networks, etc.). If the given UE determines not to initiate the idle handoff to a different access network at , the process returns to  and the given UE remains connected to the first access network while periodically transmitting packets in accordance with the expiration periods of the packet transmission timer. Otherwise, the given UE initiates an idle handoff to a second access network, . In an example, the first and second access networks can correspond to different serving areas of a larger network that share a single radio access technology (RAT), such as different cells or sectors, different subnets, etc. Alternatively, the first and second access networks can correspond to distinct networks that serve UEs via different RATs, such as WiFi, 3G, 4G, satellite, etc.","During and after the given UE's idle handoff from the first access network to the second access network, the given UE continues to run the packet transmission timer, . At the next expiration of the packet transmission timer, the given UE is scheduled to transmit a reverse-link packet in its current serving access network to facilitate network parameters for the given UE to be established or maintained.","In , before the given UE transmits the reverse-link packet to initiate the network parameter negotiation with the second access network based on the expiration of the packet transmission timer, assume that data arrives at the second access network for transmission to the given UE, , and that the second access network pages the given UE, . For example, the data to be transmitted to the given UE can correspond to an announce message for a communication session (e.g., such as a VoIP session). Because the given UE has not yet established network parameters within the second access network, the given UE transmits a packet in response to the page message to set-up the network parameters in the second access network, , and the packet transmission of  prompts the second access network to initiate a network parameter negotiation that results in the given UE being assigned network parameters for the second access network, .","At this point, after the network parameter negotiation of , the data arriving from  can now be transmitted to the given UE, . While not shown explicitly in , after the given UE transmits the packet at , the packet transmission timer is reset and the given UE will continue to transmit the packet each time the packet transmission timer expires while the given UE is connected to the second access network.","With respect to , relying upon the packet transmission timer to control when the packet transmission of  occurs following an idle handoff results in a period of time where the given UE does not have network parameters established in its new access network. Thus, data to be transmitted to the given UE is delayed because the given UE's new access network needs to set-up the network parameters in conjunction with paging the given UE. This delay can cause a call failure scenario for certain delay-sensitive communication sessions, such as Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (VoIP) sessions, Push-to-Talk (PTT) sessions or Push-to-Transfer (PTX) sessions. Accordingly, embodiments of the invention relate to more closely aligning the packet transmissions that trigger network parameter negotiation with idle handoffs while reducing the number of idle packet transmissions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"]},"In a further example, the given expiration period of the idle handoff timer can be dynamically determined based on network conditions. For example, if network conditions are unstable such that ping-ponging is occurring frequently, the given expiration period can be configured to be longer than if network conditions are stable. Examples of parameters from which the network conditions can be inferred include, but are not limited to, radio frequency (RF) conditions, signal strength conditions and\/or reaction times associated with one or more target access networks for an idle handoff. Generally, if one or more of these parameters indicate that a network performance level is below a performance level threshold, the given expiration period of the handoff timer can be increased (or extended) to account for the higher ping-ponging probability. On the other hand, if one or more of these parameters indicate that the network performance level is not below a performance level threshold, the given expiration period of the idle handoff timer can be decreased to account for the lower ping-ponging probability so that the network parameters can be established even more quickly following an idle handoff.","Referring to , after completing an idle handoff off to a new access network, , the given UE determines whether the idle handoff timer is already running on the given UE, . Generally, in the process of , the idle handoff timer is started or reset in response to a detection that the given UE has undergone an idle handoff, so the idle handoff timer will already be running at  if the given UE is \u201cping-ponging\u201d between access networks (e.g., the given UE is moving back and forth between access networks or base stations in a relatively short span of time). If the idle handoff timer is determined not to be already running, the idle handoff timer is started at . Otherwise, if the idle handoff timer is determined to already be running at , the idle handoff timer is reset at . Irrespective of whether the idle handoff timer is started () or reset (), the idle handoff timer runs at .","While the idle handoff timer is running at , the given UE monitors the idle handoff timer to determine whether or not the idle handoff timer has reached its given expiration period, . If the given UE determines that the idle handoff timer has not yet reached its given expiration period at , the idle handoff timer continues to run at . While not shown explicitly in , if the given UE completes an idle handoff to yet another access network during  before the idle handoff timer is determined to expire at , the process will return to  and the idle handoff timer will be reset at . As will be appreciated, this can occur multiple times in a ping-ping scenario. Otherwise, if the given UE determines that the idle handoff timer has reached its given expiration period at , the given UE transmits a packet (e.g., a dummy packet) within its new access network to initiate network parameter negotiation, . After the network parameter negotiation is performed, the given UE can be paged and can receive data (e.g., session announce messages) without delays associated with network parameter establishment, as in . For example, the downlink data that can be transmitted more quickly after an idle handoff using the process of  can include announce messages for VoIP, PTT and\/or PTX sessions, such that the success rate for announcing VoIP, PTT and\/or PTX sessions can be increased by more quickly triggering initiation of the network parameter negotiation (e.g., because the delay between the transmission of the page message and the transmission of the subsequent announce message is reduced, and certain delay-sensitive calls such as VoIP calls automatically fail calls if call set-up takes too long). Instead of automatically resetting the idle handoff timer after the expiration detection of , the given UE waits for another idle handoff to another access network before the idle handoff timer is started again, . As will be appreciated, this reduces the number of packets that are transmitted by the given UE as compared to  (e.g., because  relies upon a continuous periodic transmission of packets via the packet transmission timer), while also ensuring that the given UE will establish network parameters relatively quickly upon completing an idle handoff into a new access network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 6","FIG. 7A","FIG. 5","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","705","705","710","600","710","715","610","720","625","720","725","630","725","730"]},"Referring to , after the network parameter negotiation from A is completed in the second access network, assume that data arrives at the second access network for transmission to the given UE, A, that the second access network pages the given UE, A, and that the given UE transmits a page response to the second access network, A. For example, the data to be transmitted to the given UE can correspond to an announce message for a communication session (e.g., such as a VoIP session). At this point, the given UE is no longer idle. Because the given UE has established network parameters within the second access network, the second access network transmits the data to the given UE without having to wait for the network parameters to be set-up, A. As will be appreciated, if the downlink data transmitted to the given UE is related to an announcement of a delay-sensitive communication session, the earlier transmission of the downlink data at A as compared to  of  can increase the success rate of the session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["750","700","705","600","710","610","710","715","600","720","615","720","725","600","730","615","725","730","735","625","730","735","740","630","740","745"]},"Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Further, those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.","The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The methods, sequences and\/or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal (e.g., UE). In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.","In one or more exemplary embodiments, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium. Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if the software is transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.","While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention, it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions, steps and\/or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore, although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete appreciation of embodiments of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings which are presented solely for illustration and not limitation of the invention, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
