---
title: Scalable single-stage differential power converter
abstract: An embodiment of the invention is a scalable single stage differential power converter. The inverter can be implemented in signal, split and multi-phases. A multiphase converter can be achieved with only three modules. Integrated magnetics used in preferred embodiments of the invention mitigate the DC component of the steady-state dynamics and can be extended to AC ripple mitigation. Control architectures in preferred embodiments can mitigate higher order harmonics in steady state dynamics. Embodiments of the invention also provide scalability for voltage and current source topologies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09379640&OS=09379640&RS=09379640
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 09379640
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120622
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM AND REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61\/500,344, which was filed Jun. 23, 2011.","This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. 0725887 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","A field of the invention is power conversion. Example applications of the invention include conversion of power from solar cells, fuel cells, batteries, wind energy source, grid to voltage levels required by a load or power system, including microgrid applications, electric vehicle applications.","Leveraging the potential of low power so-called green or renewable power sources such as photovoltaic (solar cells), fuel cells, wind and other such power generation technologies requires efficient and well-behaved converters. The power sources have a DC power output with relatively low power density and low level voltage. Many loads require higher voltage AC power. Inverting converter architectures are typically used to perform power conversion from such power generation technologies. Other loads can require higher voltage DC power, which also requires an up conversion from a renewable power source.","An initial DC\/DC stage is most often used to initially boost voltage levels in a conversion for use with an AC load. A common architecture uses DC\/DC up conversion stage follow by a DC\/AC converter that is isolated from a load by an often bulky transformer. The bulky 60-Hz line transformer is not acceptable for compact applications. Another common architecture combines a DC\/DC converter with a high-frequency transformer followed by a DC\/AC converter, which is connected to a load\/grid. A third common architecture is a variation of the last mentioned, but includes the high-frequency transformer in the DC\/AC conversion stage. These latter two arrangements are known as high-frequency link (HFL) converters. In addition to the high-frequency transformer location, the location of an intermediate fixed, variable, or pulsating dc-link bus (often using an electrolytic capacitor) differs in these architectures.","These HFL converters are suitable for compact power electronics packaging and are, therefore, suitable for power-dense inverter applications. However, the HFL converters have limitations. Generally, the number of devices and the complexity of the drivers and protection circuitry are high in such HFL multi-stage converters. Further, and as mentioned earlier, some of the high-frequency converters may include intermediate stage high-voltage DC-link electrolytic capacitors that are bulky and have long-term reliability issues. Control is difficult in these arrangements because each of these multi-stage converters have to be controlled, which raises control complexity and computational burden. The arrangements are not always readily scalable because topology is often functionality dependent and a generic architecture may come at the price of higher number of devices and associated drive and protection complexities. These architectures also have more difficult path to achieving desirable efficiency since loss of each stage of the multistage converter has to be controlled via careful and complex design.","A single-stage converter, which alleviates some of the above-mentioned complexities and challenges in multi-stage HFL converters, would provide system-level value added from the simultaneous standpoints of cost, power density, reliability, and efficiency.","One isolated HFL single-stage differential inverter (i.e. DC-AC converter) was disclosed in S. K. Mazumder, R. K. Burra, R. Huang, and V. Arguelles, \u201cA Low-Cost Single-Stage Isolated Differential Cuk Inverter for Fuel Cell Application\u201d, IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference, pp. 4426-4431 (2008) for fuel cell applications based on the \u0106uk topology. \u0106uk converter for DC-DC applications was developed originally by Slobodan \u0106uk and has been extensively researched. See, e.g., S. \u0106uk and Z. Zhang, \u201cA High Efficiency 500 W Step-up \u0106uk Converter,\u201d Proc. of Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (2000); D. Maskimovic and S \u0106uk, \u201cSwitching Converters with Wide DC Conversion Range\u201d, IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, 1991.","However, as mentioned above, the 2008 disclosure by S. K. Mazumder et al. was for an inverter (DC-AC) and not for a DC-DC application and had a differential mode. While this concept provided a low-circuit-count design, problems with this design related to scalability, noise components, and nonlinear voltage gain, and closed-loop control remained unresolved. Further, the signal-phase architecture in this paper would require six modules for providing three-phase power output. This increases device count and circuit complexity, while reducing efficiency and reliability. Inductors and transformers in the circuit in this paper were on a common core, but the circuit retains DC components of the dynamics. The control was via a simple PI (proportional integral controller) that had only a voltage loop. The nonlinearity of the voltage gain of the converter could not be adequately handled with this control, and that control was only demonstrated for the particular circuit and inverter type.","An embodiment of the invention is a scalable single-stage differential power converter. The converter can be implemented in signal, split and multi-phases (i.e. with two or more phases). In an example embodiment, a three-phase converter can be achieved with only three modules. The concept is also scalable for N-phase (with N>1) converter, which employs N modules. Integrated magnetics used in preferred embodiments of the invention mitigate the DC component of the steady-state dynamics and can be extended to AC ripple mitigation. Control architectures in preferred embodiments can mitigate higher order harmonics in steady-state dynamics. Embodiments of the invention also provide scalability for voltage- and current-source topologies.","An embodiment of the invention provides scalable differential power converters. Embodiments of the invention provide applicability for single phase and scalability for both split phase and multiple phases. An N-phase (with N>1) multiphase extension can be achieved with N modules. For instance, an example three-phase application will employ three modules. This reduces complexity by half compared to the Mazumder 2008 paper discussed in the background section. Integrated magnetics can be at module or converter level. Integrated magnetics at the converter level used in embodiments of the invention mitigate the DC component of the steady-state dynamics and can be extended for AC ripple mitigation via incorporation of ripple rejection circuitry. Preferred control architectures of the invention are applicable for single, split-, or multiple phases, can be scalable for linear\/nonlinear compensation and stationary\/time-invariant frame, and can overcome the nonlinearity of the converter voltage gain using a limited number of transformer turns ratio. The latter has a positive impact of reducing transformer leakage inductance, which can be especially for high-frequency operation. Control architectures in preferred embodiments can mitigate higher-order harmonics in steady-state dynamics. Embodiments of the invention also provide scalability for voltage and current source topologies.","Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings may include schematic representations, which will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis, and features may not be to scale.","Embodiments of the invention include single-phase and multi-phase embodiments as well as voltage-source and current-source topologies.  illustrates a basic single-phase architecture with a voltage-source topology according to an example embodiment.  illustrates a current-source topology. The voltage-source topology  includes two converter modules ,  between a load  and a voltage source . The current-source topology  includes two converter modules ,  between a load  and a current source .","Both of the  and  topologies provide a single-stage power converter that can overcome key problems associated with larger footprint, higher complexity, and multiple stage designs. By also providing a modular and scalable design, cost reduction via interoperability and wide applicability is also achieved. Even though the designs in  and  have high-frequency transformers, the concept of the differential-mode configuration is applicable for non-isolated realization and scalable (just like its isolated counterpart) from single phase to split phase as well as multiple phases (with number of phases higher than 1). While a DC\/AC conversion is assumed it is applicable also for both AC\/DC, and AC\/AC operation.","In , the DC\/AC inversion operation generates an output across each of the module ,  that has a DC component and an AC component (which for sinusoidal output of the inverter is sinusoidal in nature). The overall output voltage for each module ,  is positive. The AC sinusoidal signals are 180 degree out of phase, and the difference of the outputs of the two inverter modules eliminates the DC component while retaining the desired sinusoidal AC component. For split phase sinusoidal-output operation, the concept remains the same as above with the exception that a neutral  is brought out to ground as from each module , , as shown in  for the voltage-source topology. For three-phase sinusoidal output operation, the DC outputs of each of the blocks are not phase shifted by 180 degrees but by 120 degrees, as shown in  for the voltage-source topology, with a third module  being added. The concept illustrated in  is not limited to split and three phase architecture and is applicable to N-phase system in general, where N is greater than 2. Further, using the building block of , current-sourced single-stage converters for split- and three-phase systems is extendable along the same lines as in  and the like the voltage-source topologies, the current source topology is also scalable for N-phase system. Extending this concept to a N-phase (with N greater than two) sinusoidal output system, the AC phase shift is 360\/N degrees. When the desired output is not a sinusoid but contains other harmonics, then, the phase adjustments for single-, split-, and three- and higher-phase operations for each of the AC harmonic components is achieved along the same lines as that pursued for pre-sinusoidal operation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIGS. 1A and 1B","FIG. 1D","FIG. 2A"],"b":["10","12","14","10","12","14","16","12","14","16","10","18","12","14"],"sub":["a","a","b","c ","a","b"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msub":[{"mi":["V","o"]},{"mi":["V","i"]}]},{"mi":"D","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mi":"D"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},"where D is the duty ratio and N is the turns ratio of the transformer. By taking the difference of the two converters and modulating the output sinusoidally, the voltage gain then becomes (2):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["V","o"]},{"mi":["V","i"]}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["V","max"]},{"mi":["V","i"]}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"D"},"mo":"-","mn":"1"},{"mi":"ND","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mi":"D"}}}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}}},"The solution for D can be expressed as in Eq (3):",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"D","mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"wt"}}},"mo":"-","mn":"2"}},"mo":"\u00b1","msqrt":{"mrow":{"mn":"4","mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"wt"}}}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b1","mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"wt"}}}}]},{"mrow":{"mi":["A","B"],"mo":"\u00b1"},"mi":"C"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}}},"where \u03b1=V\u00b7N\/V, which is a constant value and V, is the amplitude of the desired output sine wave.","Power is transferred via capacitors Cand Cfrom a primary input side of transformers  and  respectively to a secondary output side of the transformers  and  via capacitors Cand C. The two isolated \u0106uk converters  and  can be operated differentially to create a well-behaved 60-Hz (cycles per second) sinusoidal output, or an output at a different predetermined desired frequency, such as the widely used 50-Hz frequency. The converter  provides direct DC\/AC conversion with low device count and yields a simple drive-circuitry. This configuration can lower converter cost compared to HFL converters and can achieve high density and efficiency. The configuration of the converter  eliminates the need for a separate DC\/DC converter stage, and has only four main devices, all of which are low-side driven. This yields a simple gate-drive circuitry as well as high efficiency and enhanced reliability. The magnetic devices can be coupled reduce the current ripple and decrease the size and weight.","Because the inverter converter  operates in a differential mode, the inductor currents flow from one \u0106uk module into the other. , respectively, illustrate the four modes of converter operation, which are achieved by applying Modes 1 and 2 (for the positive half of the line cycle) in , and by applying Modes 3 and 4 (for the negative half of the line cycle) in . Importantly, integrated magnetics  provide a path for current flow during a power conversion cycle.","In  (Mode 1), switches Qand Qare ON, and Qand Qare OFF. The current flowing through input inductor Lincreases and the inductor stores energy. The capacitor Cdischarges through Qresulting in a transfer of energy from the primary to the secondary side of top transformer. The energy stored in the capacitor Cis discharged to the circuit formed by L, C, and the load R. Meanwhile, the inductor Lstores energy and its current increases. The capacitor Cdischarges through Q. The power flows in the opposite direction in Module , from the secondary to the primary side. The capacitor Cis also discharged to provide the power.","In  (Mode 2), switches Qand Qare turned off and Qand Qare turned ON. Capacitors Cand Cand Cand Cc are charged using the energy, which was stored in the inductors Land Lwhile Qand Qwere on. During this time, Land Lrelease their energy. As mentioned above,  complete the positive half of the line cycle.  illustrate the comparable current flow paths for the negative half cycle.","A small amount of leakage inductance will be present on the primary side of the isolation transformers ,  because of component practicality. The current flowing through this inductance changes sign quickly. This can cause voltage spikes, the magnitude of which depends on the size of the leakage inductance, input voltage, and output power. These spikes add to the voltage stress of sensitive devices such as the power MOSFETs.","A snubbing network can be applied across the primary (as well as secondary) side of the transformers  and  to serve this function. See, S. K. Mazumder, R. K. Burra, R. Huang, and V. Arguelles, \u201cA Low-Cost Single-Stage Isolated Differential \u0106uk Inverter for Fuel Cell Application\u201d, IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference, pp. 4426-4431 (2008).  shows a portion of the  converter  with a snubbing network  applied to the primary side of the transformers , . This reduces the voltage spike of the device significantly and the stored energy is recovered as well. By choosing a device with lower voltage rating, the device characteristics are improved, which is useful when achieving high efficiencies. Furthermore, by recovering the energy stored in the inductance, the efficiency of the inverter can be improved slightly.","The  circuitry includes multiple magnetics components, including four inductors L-Land two transformers  and . While the individual inductor steady-state dynamics have a DC component, the transformer steady-state dynamics incorporate a DC component apart from an AC component. Existence of a DC component has an impact of enhancement of magnetics sizing and enhanced probability of core saturation. For single-phase inverter operation, the AC component comprises two scales: the switching frequency component and the output low-frequency component. The latter has an even more significant impact on the magnetics sizing.","While the conventional integrated-magnetics approach applied in  has been used before as outlined in S. Cuk and R. D. Middlebrook, Advances in switched-mode power conversion, Tesla Co., (1983) for individual modules will reduce the number of cores and footprint somewhat, the impact the magnetic core will still be subjected to DC as well as low-frequency AC components. , on the other hand, integrates all of the magnetics (including the inductors and the transformers) of both the modules ,  on the same core . This approach is fundamentally different than prior integrated magnetics approaches, which eliminate the AC switching frequency component but not the DC component.","In , the integrated magnetics is a common, unitary magnetic core  shared by the magnetic components of both modules , . This new integration is done in such a way so that the core  is subjected to differential of input and output inductor currents, which results in elimination of the DC component. The same strategy is applied for the transformers  and . It is noted that, if for some topologies if the transformers are subjected to only AC components, then the overall integrated magnetics needs to be integrated in a differential mode to only eliminate the DC component of inductor steady state dynamics. It is also noted that, for multiphase operation the mechanism of integration can be extended to include magnetics of all the phases or integrate on a per phase basis. Finally, since for DC\/AC or AC\/DC or AC\/AC operations the ac ripple can be non-negligible, especially for single-\/split-phase operations. The integrated magnetics can also be integrated with an additional (tertiary) winding fed by a ripple-correction circuitry for ripple mitigation.","If the voltage gain of the overall differential-mode inverter for single-phase sinusoidal-output topological embodiments such as the  embodiments is nonlinear, then simple sinusoidal modulation of the switches alone does not always yield a desired sinusoidal output. For isolated inverters, the transformer turns ratio also affects the harmonic distortion of the output. A typical control scheme for the converter has an outer voltage loop which generates the current reference for the inner current loop. See, e.g., S. K. Mazumder, R. K. Burra, R. Huang, and V. Arguelles, \u201cA Low-Cost Single-Stage Isolated Differential Cuk Inverter for Fuel Cell Application\u201d, IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference, pp. 4426-4431 (2008). The output of the current loop generates the command for the modulator that generates the switching signal. However, for nonlinear voltage gain, such an approach will often yield low-frequency harmonics at the output.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["52","54","56","58","60","62","64","54","58"],"sub":["N ","N ","N "]},"While such an approach works well for linear compensation of single-phase converters and extendable to split-phase and multi-phase (with number of phases higher than one) in the same manner (i.e. in stationary frame), for multiphase (with more than one phase) systems, the control mechanism can be implemented in a non-stationary frame (using appropriate basis transformation) (See, e.g. S. K. Mazumder, \u201cA novel discrete control strategy for independent stabilization of parallel three-phase boost converters by combining space-vector modulation with variable-structure control,\u201d IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 1070-1083 (2003); S. K. Mazumder and K. Acharya, \u201cSequence-based control for standalone and networked switching power converters,\u201d IEEE Energy Conversion Conference and Exposition, pp. 1104-1111 (2009)). For example, by closing the control loops in a non-stationary synchronous frame, the dynamic response and control accuracy of the system may yield superior performance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["70","72","74","76","78"],"sub":["1 ","2 ","3 ","4 ","r1 ","r2 ","r3 ","r4","1 ","3 ","2 ","4 ","1","r1","2","r2","3","r3","4","r4 "]},"The voltage gain of the inverter (under hard-switching) is obtained next. Basically, the output voltages of the first and the second module is given by the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"n","msub":{"mi":["V","PV"]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"d","mn":"1"}}}]}},{"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"n","msub":{"mi":["V","PV"]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"d","mn":"2"}}}]}}],"mo":[",","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}}}},"where dand dare the duty cycles of the primary-side switches of the first and the second module, respectively. Symbol n represents the turns ratio of both the transformers. The output voltage of the inverter is the difference in the output voltages of the two modules and is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["V","o"]},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"-"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"n","msub":{"mi":["V","PV"]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"d","mn":"1"}}}]},{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"n","msub":{"mi":["V","PV"]}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"d","mn":"2"}}}]}],"mo":"-"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"n","mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["V","PV"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"d","mn":"1"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"d","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"d","mn":"1"}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"d","mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}]}}},"mo":"."}}}}}]}}}},"Let d=D+D\u2032 sin (\u03c9t), d=D\u2212D\u2032 sin(\u03c9t); then, voltage gain of the inverter is given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":["V","o"]},{"mi":["V","PV"]}]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mn":"4","mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":"sin","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":["D","\u2032"]},"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mi":"D"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"-","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["D","\u20322"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"sin","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}}}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}},"The voltage gain depends on the transformer turns ratio and the duty cycle. Thus, an optimum balance between turns ratio and D (and D\u2032) is important. The duty cycles have a range of 50-100%. The inverter should not be operated below 50% to avoid a condition of inconsistency in the input inductor currents.","The topological modes of the inverter, for a specific sinusoidal modulation scheme under hard switching, are presented in . When Sand Sor Sand Sof each module are turned on together, then that initiates the boost mode. During this mode, the output capacitors of one module feed energy to the capacitors of the other module via the load. For all other switching configurations, there is an exchange of power between the primary and the secondary as well as from one module to the other.","In addition, in these modes, there is a localized charging of output capacitor of one module. The direction of power flow depends on the time-domain voltage and current profiles. For instance, for a unity-power-factor passive load, for positive line cycle of the output voltage (across the load), power flows from the PV source via the primary module while during the negative half cycle, power flows via the bottom module.","The operation of the inverter in the positive half cycle of the output is analyzed by the following modes. In  (Mode 1), during this interval the S, S, Sand Sare turned on. Hence, current in both the transformers is zero. Power to the load is supplied by the output capacitors of the upper module Cand C. The output capacitors of the lower module, Cand Care charged in this mode. The lower DC\/DC converter acts as the receiving module. The input current in the upper and the lower module from the PV source is given by iand i, respectively. The currents through the primary side switches are given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"in","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007-2","num":"00007.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"3"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"4"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"in","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mn":"2"}}}}}]},"In  (Mode 2), Sand Sand Sand Sare turned on. The negative current raises through the leakage Land the current through switch Sraises with the same slope as the current through L. Capacitor Cis charged and capacitor Cdischarges through the load, Cand the secondary of the transformer of the lower module. Capacitor Cis also charged in this mode. The current through the leakage inductance Lis positive and begins to increase with the same slope as the current through the leakage inductance L. The currents through the primary-side switches and the leakage inductors are given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"nL","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008-2","num":"00008.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"nL","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008-3","num":"00008.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"in","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008-4","num":"00008.4"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"3"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"in","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}}]},"where \u0394t is the time interval for Mode 2.","In  (Mode 3), operation is similar to the Mode 1 where all the primary-side switches in both the modules are turned on and all the secondary-side switches of both the modules are turned off. The current through the transformer is zero. The output capacitors of the upper module  feed the load current and the lower converter .","In  (Mode 4), Sand Sand Sand Sare turned on. The current through Sin Mode 3 is diverted to Ldue to voltage across the primary of the upper transformer, which in turn, is due to the voltage across C. Capacitors Cand Care charged by the source. Capacitor Cdischarges through the load, the transformer secondary, and C. Current through Sand the negative current through Lrise with the same slope as the current through L. The currents through the primary-side switches and the leakage inductors are given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"nL","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009-2","num":"00009.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"nL","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009-3","num":"00009.3"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"in","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009-4","num":"00009.4"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"4"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"in","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}}]},"In  (Mode 5), S, S, S, and Sare turned on. The current through the upper transformer is zero. Capacitors Cand Cdischarge through the load, C, and the secondary of the transformer of the lower module. Capacitor Cof the lower module is also charged in this mode. The current through Lis positive. The currents through Sand Lare given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"3"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"in","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010-2","num":"00010.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"nL","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}}}]},"In  (Mode 6), S, S, S, and Sare turned on. The current in the upper transformer is zero. Capacitors Cand Cdischarge through the load, secondary of the lower-module transformer, and C. Capacitor Cis also charged in this mode. The currents through Lare negative and given by",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"maths":[{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"V","mrow":{"mi":"o","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"nL","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u0394","t"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011-2","num":"00011.2"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"s","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"4"}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"in","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"i","mrow":{"mi":"Ls","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}}]},"Modes 5 and 6 determine the maximum point and the zero crossing of the output. The zero crossing occurs when difference in the output of the two modules is zero; while the maximum point occurs when the difference of the individual outputs is maximum.","The feasible switching states of the inverter are provided in Table 1 below. The first set of three switching states (i.e. a-c) form major part of a switching cycle. The last set of four switching states (i.e. d-g) exists for a shorter duration and may exist either in the positive half cycle or in the negative half cycle. Switching states d-g occur in the vicinity of the maximum, the minimum, or the zero-crossing point of the output voltage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Possible switching states of the inverter."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Switching states",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["of the inverter","S","S","S","S"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["a.","1","1","1","1"]},{"entry":["b.","1","0","1","0"]},{"entry":["c.","0","1","0","1"]},{"entry":["d.","1","1","1","0"]},{"entry":["e.","1","1","0","1"]},{"entry":["f.","0","1","1","1"]},{"entry":["g.","1","0","1","1"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The inverter of  can also be operated in zero-current switching mode (ZCS). These modes are explained with respect to . In  (Modes 1\u21922) control turns off Sand Sbefore Mode 2. Sand Sare turned on to aid ZCS of Sand Sin Mode 2. When Sis turned on, voltage across Cis applied across the secondary of the transformer. This causes a voltage at the primary and hence the current through Sis diverted to L. The capacitor Cdischarges through the load, C, and the secondary of the transformer.","In  (Modes 3\u21924) control turns off Sand Sbefore Mode 4. Sand Sare turned on to aid ZCS of Sand S. When Sis turned on, the voltage across Cis applied across the secondary of the transformer. This causes a voltage at the primary and hence the current through Sis diverted to L. In this mode the capacitor Cdischarges through the load, capacitor Cand the secondary of the transformer.","In  (Modes 4\u21925) control turns off Sby turning on Sbefore Mode 5. When Sis turned on, the voltage across Cis applied across the secondary of the lower transformer. This causes voltage across the primary and hence the current through Sis diverted to L.","In  (Modes 5\u21926) control off Sby turning on Sbefore Mode 6. When Sis turned on, the voltage across Cis applied across the secondary of the lower transformer. This causes voltage across the primary and hence the current through Sis diverted to L. The additional duty cycle (d) of the secondary-side switches is ensured for the entire range by modulating the primary-side switches of both the modules using trailing-edge modulation.","While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it should be understood that other modifications, substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications, substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, which should be determined from the appended claims.","Various features of the invention are set forth in the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A-1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIGS. 1C-1D","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIGS. 2B-2E","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A-6F","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A-7D","FIG. 5"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
