---
title: Apparatus and method for determining microscale interactions based on compressive sensors such as crystal structures
abstract: Techniques for determining values for a metric of microscale interactions include determining a mesoscale metric for a plurality of mesoscale interaction types, wherein a value of the mesoscale metric for each mesoscale interaction type is based on a corresponding function of values of the microscale metric for the plurality of the microscale interaction types. A plurality of observations that indicate the values of the mesoscale metric are determined for the plurality of mesoscale interaction types. Values of the microscale metric are determined for the plurality of microscale interaction types based on the plurality of observations and the corresponding functions and compressed sensing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09014988&OS=09014988&RS=09014988
owner: The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Jr. University
number: 09014988
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120322
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","1. Overview","2. Detailed Methods","3. Example Embodiments","4. Commercial Applications or Contexts","5. Hardware Overview","6. Alternatives and Modifications"],"p":["This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61\/466,465, filed Mar. 23, 2011, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e).","This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DE-FG02-05ER64136 awarded by the Office of Science of the Department of the Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The determination of microscale interaction energies (also called potentials herein) during binding or folding of large molecules, such as proteins and nucleic acids, has been limited by the experimental difficulty of directly measuring atomic-scale interactions within such large molecules. Furthermore the number of interactions involved is very large, as each atom type in one molecule can possibly interact with each atom type in itself (for folding) or the other molecule (for binding). The interaction is often distance dependent, further increasing the number of interactions for which interaction energies are to be determined. For example, if it is assumed that a dozen atom types in one molecule can interact with each of twenty atom types in another molecule at each of 15 different distances, then the number of interaction energies to determine is 3,600. In general, the combinatorially large number of measurements required to comprehensively characterize the potential that describes all possible microscale interactions in a molecular system is at least daunting and expensive, if not prohibitive. As a result of this experimental intractability, interaction energies to date have relied on theoretical models.","Therefore, there is a need for an approach for determining values for a microscale interaction metric, such as interaction energy, which does not suffer one or more of the disadvantages of prior approaches, such as relying on theoretical models or numerous a priori assumptions. Techniques are provided for determining, based on compressive sensing, values for a metric of microscale interactions beyond direct observation. In various embodiments, the compressive sensors are mesoscale interactions for which a corresponding metric is a function of values for the metric of some or all of the microscale interactions. In several embodiments, the compressive sensors are crystal structures.","In a first set of embodiments, a method includes determining a microscale metric for multiple microscale interaction types and determining a mesoscale metric for multiple mesoscale interaction types. A value of the mesoscale metric for each mesoscale interaction type is based on a corresponding function of values of the microscale metric for the microscale interaction types. A plurality of observations that indicate the values of the mesoscale metric are obtained for the mesoscale interaction types. Values of the microscale metric for the microscale interaction types are determined based on the observations and the corresponding functions and compressed sensing.","In some embodiments of the first set, the microscale interactions include sub-molecular interactions involving a plurality of atoms or atom complexes.","In some embodiments of the first set, the mesoscale interactions include molecular interactions involving at least one large molecule.","In some embodiments of the first set, each of the plurality of observations comprises relative rate of occurrence of the mesoscale interactions in a canonical ensemble.","In some embodiments of the first set, the metric of the mesoscale interaction is binding energy or folding energy.","In some embodiments of the first set, a majority of values of the metric for the plurality of microscale interactions are negligible.","In other sets of embodiments, a computer readable medium or an apparatus is configured to perform one or more steps of the above methods.","Still other aspects, features, and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations, including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments, and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects, all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive.","A method and apparatus are described for determining values of a metric of microscale interactions based on compressive sensors. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Various references are cited in the following. The entire contents of the following references are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, except for terminology that is inconsistent with the terminology used herein. As used herein, the following terms and abbreviations have the meanings given in Table. 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"273pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Terms and Definitions."},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["alpha helix (\u03b1-helix)","A right-handed coiled or spiral conformation of a protein, in which"]},{"entry":[{},"every backbone Nitrogen-Hydrogen (N\u2014H) group donates a"]},{"entry":[{},"hydrogen bond to the backbone Carbon Oxygen double bond"]},{"entry":[{},"(C\u2550O) group of the amino acid four residues earlier (i.e., hydrogen"]},{"entry":[{},"bonding). Among types of local structure in proteins, the \u03b1-helix is"]},{"entry":[{},"the most regular and the most predictable form sequence, as well as"]},{"entry":[{},"the most prevalent."]},{"entry":["canonical ensemble","A set of physical states in which the mesoscale interaction energy"]},{"entry":[{},"may vary, but the volume, temperature, and number of particles are"]},{"entry":[{},"fixed"]},{"entry":["consensus sequence","A sequence of DNA nucleotides (bases) where a particular protein"]},{"entry":[{},"is most likely to bind to a DNA helix, as found by experiment."]},{"entry":["CS","Compressed sensing - known technique for deriving a signal (e.g.,"]},{"entry":[{},"an image) from compressed measurements (e.g., summed"]},{"entry":[{},"intensities of pixels)."]},{"entry":["De novo","A shorthand reference for the new compressed sensing approach"]},{"entry":[{},"presented herein for deriving values of microscale interaction"]},{"entry":[{},"energy to distinguish this approach from physical and statistical"]},{"entry":[{},"derivations."]},{"entry":["DNA","Deoxyribonucleic acid - a double helix comprising two"]},{"entry":[{},"complementary sequences of nucleotide bases (each selected from a"]},{"entry":[{},"set of four nucleotides: adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine,"]},{"entry":[{},"represented by the letters A, T, C and G, respectively)"]},{"entry":["energy profile, V(r, q)","a mathematical description of the interaction energy V at a distance"]},{"entry":[{},"r of each possible interaction q in a molecular system, where q is an"]},{"entry":[{},"index that indicates a particular interacting set of two or more"]},{"entry":[{},"atoms."]},{"entry":["HTH","Helix-turn-helix proteins composed of two \u03b1 helices joined by a"]},{"entry":[{},"short strand of amino acids and found in many proteins that regulate"]},{"entry":[{},"gene expression."]},{"entry":["lnorm","A size of vectors given by the sum of absolute values of vector"]},{"entry":[{},"elements."]},{"entry":["mesoscale","Spatial scales on the same order as the resolution of available"]},{"entry":[{},"observations, also called mesoscopic."]},{"entry":["mesoscale interaction","Also called mesoscopic interaction, an interaction for which a"]},{"entry":[{},"metric is a function of the values of a metric of its constituent"]},{"entry":[{},"microscale interactions"]},{"entry":["microscale","Spatial scales smaller than the resolution of available observations,"]},{"entry":[{},"also called microscopic."]},{"entry":["microscale interaction","Also called microscopic interaction, an interaction on the"]},{"entry":[{},"microscale."]},{"entry":["parameter","A term in an equation that is constant for a particular application or"]},{"entry":[{},"context, but can vary among different applications or contexts."]},{"entry":["potential","In context of a microscale metric, the microscale interaction energy."]},{"entry":["position weight matrix","A matrix of probabilities that gives a weighted match to any given"]},{"entry":["(PWM)","substring of fixed length. It has one row for each symbol of the"]},{"entry":[{},"alphabet, and one column for each position in the substring. The"]},{"entry":[{},"match at a particular row and column is the probability that the"]},{"entry":[{},"symbol of the row appears at the position of the column. The"]},{"entry":[{},"probability for a string of symbols is the product of position-"]},{"entry":[{},"specific probabilities for each symbol in the substring. A PWM is"]},{"entry":[{},"commonly used as a representation of motifs (patterns) in biological"]},{"entry":[{},"sequences with an alphabet of 4 nucleotide bases. A PWM is also"]},{"entry":[{},"called position-specific weight matrix (PSWM) or position-specific"]},{"entry":[{},"scoring matrix (PSSM) where probabilities are replaced by the"]},{"entry":[{},"general notion of likelihood."]},{"entry":["PDB","Protein Data Bank"]},{"entry":["Protein-DNA binding","A complex formed by binding forces between a section of DNA"]},{"entry":["structure","and one or more parts of a protein molecule."]},{"entry":["RNA","Ribonucleic acid - a single sequence of nucleotide bases (each"]},{"entry":[{},"selected from a set of four nucleotides: adenine, uracil, cytosine,"]},{"entry":[{},"and guanine, represented by the letters A, U, C and G."]},{"entry":["Symmetric Kullback-","A symmetric and non-negative measure of the difference between"]},{"entry":["Leibler divergence","two probability distributions P and Q based on an average of the"]},{"entry":["(SKLD) metric","logarithmic difference between the probabilities P and Q. Typically"]},{"entry":[{},"P represents the \u201ctrue\u201d distribution of data, observations, or a"]},{"entry":[{},"precise calculated theoretical distribution. The measure Q typically"]},{"entry":[{},"represents a theory, model, description, or approximation of P."]},{"entry":["variable","A term in an equation that can assume multiple different values for"]},{"entry":[{},"a single application or context."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Some embodiments of the invention are described below in the context of binding energy of mesoscale protein-DNA binding and values of potential of microscale atom-atom interactions. However, the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments microscale interaction energies are determined for protein-protein binding and protein folding and other molecular binding or folding interactions. In some embodiments, other metrics of microscale interactions are determined, such as kinetic metrics, including residence binding efficiency and residence times. In some embodiments, the microscale interactions are not atomic interactions. For example, in some embodiments, a microscale interaction is an interaction among multiple atoms on each of the two interacting molecules. In some embodiments, a microscale interaction is a complex system of multiple molecules in conjunction with a solvent or crystal.","In some embodiments, the same elements interacting at different distances are treated as different interactions rather than a distance-dependent interaction of those elements. In some embodiments, an interaction depends on the chemical environment of the interacting elements, in which case the same elements interacting in different chemical environments, e.g., at different locations along a long molecule, correspond to different interactions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["110","120","130","101","120","101","110","101","120","101","110","101","120","101","110","120","110"],"i":["a ","a ","b ","a ","c ","a "]},"In the illustrated context, the binding of the protein-DNA complex captured in a crystal structure is the mesoscale interaction, and the atom-atom interactions are the microscale interactions. The binding energy is enough to form the compound that is crystallized. Furthermore crystal studies (e.g., x-ray crystallography) indicate the position and orientation of atoms in the region of binding so that the functional dependence of each mesoscale interaction type on each microscale interaction type is known, or approximated. In other embodiments, other techniques (e.g., nuclear magnetic resonance, cryo-electron microscopy or atomic force microscopy) are used to determine the microscale interaction types in each mesoscale interaction type and thus the corresponding function for each mesoscale interaction type. It is recognized here that of all the possible atom-atom interactions, only a limited number are non-negligible for protein-DNA binding. That is, the solution matrix is sparse. For example, atoms of type on DNA molecule  do not interact with atoms of type on protein molecule . This realization allows one to use the methods of compressed sensing.","Thus, according to some embodiments, by examining the binding energies or relative occurrences of interactions of several different protein-DNA complexes, e.g., in corresponding different crystals, and using the linear regression methods of compressed sensing, the atom-atom interaction energies can be inferred.","The method involves a novel mathematical formulation that recasts the determination of potentials at the microscale, for example, as a signal acquisition problem using compressed sensing techniques. By exploiting a key property of compressed sensing (discussed below), the experimental intractability of determining potentials, for example, is circumvented. This formulation rests on three key observations. (i) In certain systems, e.g. biomolecular interactions, only a few types of inter-atomic interactions, such as hydrogen bonds, are energetically important. (ii) Mesoscale interactions, e.g. protein-DNA binding, can be viewed as sensors of (and, thus, somewhat known functions of) the underlying microscale potential. (iii) In embodiments that target potentials, there is a correspondence between the mathematical formulation of logistic regression and the statistical mechanical concept of the canonical ensemble.","Using these ideas, the determination of potentials is formulated as a tractable signal acquisition problem as described in a later section. Central to this approach is the distinction between microscale and mesoscale interactions. An important characteristic is that mesoscale interactions be comprised of microscale interactions, such that a value of the metric (e.g., binding energy) of a mesoscale interaction is a function of the values of the metric (e.g., potential) of its constituent microscale interactions. The function that identifies or approximates or otherwise indicates the microscale interactions constituting each mesoscale interaction must also be known or approximated. Some embodiments include determining for each mesoscale interaction type the corresponding function of values of the microscale metric for the plurality of the microscale interaction types. In various embodiments, for each mesoscale interaction the corresponding function is determined based on measurements from a member of a group comprising x-ray crystallography, nuclear magnetic resonance, cryo-electron microscopy, and atomic force microscopy, or equivalents thereof. In the illustrated embodiments, the term \u201cmesoscale interactions\u201d refers to interactions between molecules or molecular complexes, while \u201cmicroscale interactions\u201d refers to interactions at the atomic scale. This distinction is ultimately application-specific, and depends on what interaction metrics are to be determined and what experimental data is available.","When these requirements are met substantively, the method can determine the values of the metric (e.g., potential) of the microscale interactions using observations that indicate the values of the metric (e.g., binding energy or probability of the mesoscale interactions) as the experimental data. For protein-DNA interactions, the mesoscale interactions are protein-nucleotide binding events represented by protein-DNA crystal structures with known binding energies or relative binding probabilities, and the microscale interactions are pairwise, distance-dependent, contacts between protein atoms and nucleotide atoms (standard atom type categories are used and distances are segmented into discrete bins whose widths are treated as model parameters as described below).","Thus, each protein-nucleotide crystal structure characterizes a mesoscale interaction whose constituent microscale interactions are readily identified from the structure. In some embodiments, intra-protein and intra-DNA energies are ignored because approximations of the protein-DNA interactions are the focus. These data are used together with the known energies or probabilities of protein-nucleotide binding events to infer de novo the inter-atomic protein-DNA potentials. In the following, the compressed sensing determination of the values of the microscale metric according to the illustrated embodiments, are called de novo to distinguish from purely physical or purely statistical approaches, and the resulting potentials are called de novo potentials. In further steps, it is shown that these de novo potentials can be used to predict protein-DNA binding motifs with unprecedented accuracy.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":"210"},"For example, as depicted in , it is determined that protein-DNA binding in crystals is a type of meso scale interaction for which the mesoscale metric is binding energy that represents a weighted sum of values for potential (microscale metric) for multiple atom-atom microscale interaction types. More details on this relationship are described in subsequent sections. Observations of values for the mesoscale metric, e.g. protein-DNA binding energy, can be direct or can be indirect, e.g., deduced from relative rate of occurrence in a crystal comprising many instances of the same protein molecule bound to the same DNA molecule. From these observations and knowledge of the function (e.g., weights) for the microscale interactions, and compressed sensing methods, the values of the microscale metric (e.g., potential) can be derived for the non-negligible microscale interaction types (e.g., particular atom pairs)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":["270","274","272","262","264","272","274","270"],"sub":["i","k","k ","ik","i"]},"In the protein-DNA embodiment illustrated below, the signal e is the vector of microscale interaction energies (protein-DNA atomic potential), where each entry ein the signal vector e corresponds to the energy of an interaction between a protein atom type and a DNA atom type within a discrete distance bin. Thus the energy profile V(r,q) for multiple radii r and atom sets q is represented by the efor all i. Each row of C arises from a distinct protein-DNA crystal structure, and each column corresponds to a distinct type of microscale interaction (combination of protein atom type, DNA atom type, and distance bin). An element Cof C encodes the number of times (indicated by gray levels ) that the ith interaction type occurs in the kth crystal structure. The set of measurements Eare the experimental direct or relative binding energies of the corresponding protein-DNA complexes. Because the binding energy of a complex is the sum of the energies of all microscale interactions in the complex, it is equal to the weighted sum given by the inner product between the kth row of C that encodes the kth complex and the signal vector e.","In other embodiments, other microscale interaction types, microscale metrics, mesoscale interaction types, mesoscale metrics and observations are utilized. In some other embodiments, the energy measurements are of the folding energies of one or more proteins or other large molecules. Energy of mesoscale interactions is used herein to refer to either binding or folding energies of mesoscale interactions, or some combination. For example, in various embodiments, mesoscale interactions include protein folding, enzyme-substrate affinities, RNA-DNA interactions, RNA-protein interactions, RNA-RNA interactions, DNA-DNA interactions, protein-protein binding energies, DNA and protein-small molecule affinities, liquid-solid surface interactions, solid surface-solid surface interactions, crystal-crystal interactions, interactions including two, three, or a multiplicity of atoms, interactions involving sets of defined atoms (e.g., residue with base), interactions involving atoms with mesoscale objects such as a solvent, organic molecule or inorganic molecule interactions, or a mixture of organic and inorganic molecules. If the energy of the mesoscale interaction can be obtained, and an atomic resolution structure involved in the mesoscale interaction can also be obtained, then regardless of the type of molecules involved, the method is applicable. The accuracy achieved depends on the sparsity of the underlying microscale interactions, but with sufficient data, even dense microscale interactions can be inferred. In various embodiments, mesoscale metrics include a direct energy or relative energy for binding energy or for folding energy.","Returning to , in step , multiple incoherent observations of values for the metric of different types of mesoscale interactions are obtained. \u201cIncoherence\u201d is a term used in compressed sensing literature that relates to the randomness of the set of microscale interactions sampled by the mesoscale sensor. For example, physical measurements are made of the binding energies or relative occurrence rates for several different DNA sequences and the same protein in a corresponding set of different crystals.  is a graph  that illustrates example measure of incoherence of measurements, according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis  indicates the cosine of the angle between any two rows of the matrix C, called sensor vectors, and is dimensionless. The vertical axis  indicates the fraction of the total number of pairs that have that angle and, is also dimensionless. For every pair of sensor vectors derived from the dataset and used in the best performing \u201cBaseline\u201d model described below, the cos \u03b8 values are as shown. This distribution characterizes the incoherence of the sensor matrix used. For an effective sensor matrix, it is desirable to have as many of the values be close to 0 as possible. The observed distribution suggests that the dataset used can act as an effective sensor matrix, with mean and median values of 0.081 and 0.041 (in units of j cos \u03b8j), respectively. These values are significantly lower than 1, thus indicating that the set of sensors comprised by the protein:DNA crystal structures in the illustrated data set has good incoherence properties.","In some embodiments, obtaining the observations includes entering or retrieving data of previously made measurements, such as published observations. In some embodiments, obtaining the observations includes calculating the energies from partial data and accepted mathematical derivation, e.g., computing binding energies of DNA sequences with at least one different base in at least one position of the sequence, based on measurements of a single protein binding for a single DNA sequence. More details on obtaining observations are provided in subsequent sections.","Returning to , in step  values for the metric for the multiple microscale interaction types are inferred based on the observations and the methods of compressed sensing. This process is described in detail in a subsequent section where the microscale metric is interaction energy (potential). Accuracy of this step relies on the degree to which the system selected in step  satisfies the conditions for compressed sensing, e.g., a sparse solution set with a majority of microscale interactions that have metric values that are negligible. Step  includes determining reasonable values for one or more compressive sensing parameters, e.g., based on training data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 3B","b":["350","350","352","354","356","356"]},"Energy values for atom-atom interactions at different distance ranges are indicated by the grayscale in each box, with negative energies indicated by a negative sign. Boxes with no grayscale (called blank boxes) are negligible in terms of contributing to the mesoscale protein-DNA binding energy.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},"Returning to , in step  the solution results for the metric values of the set of microscale interaction types are validated against accepted values for the mesoscale metric that involve those interaction types. Evaluation and validation procedures are described in detail in a subsequent section, and confirm that the procedure works for protein-DNA binding. In some embodiments, in which the procedure is well accepted, step  is omitted.","In step , the values of the microscale metric for the multiple microscale interaction types are used. For example, a value for the mesoscale metric (e.g., binding energy or rate of occurrence) for a different mesoscale interaction (e.g., different protein-DNA binding) than the mesoscale interaction types used to derive the values of the microscale metric is predicted based on the derived values of the metric for the microscale interaction types. The correct predictions of such mesoscale metric values are demonstrated in subsequent sections.","Although steps are depicted in  as integral steps in a particular order for purposes of illustration, in other embodiments, one or more steps, or portions thereof, are performed in a different order, or overlapping in time, in series or in parallel, or are omitted, or one or more additional steps are added, or the method is changed in some combination of ways.","I is used herein to indicate the set of all possible microscale interaction types. A microscale interaction type may be as simple as two atoms existing within a predefined distance of one another, and as complex as a system of multiple molecules in conjunction with a solvent. Note that an interaction may depend on the distance of the interacting elements, in which case the same elements interacting at different distances would correspond to different interaction types in our formulation. Distance may be defined in terms of discrete distance ranges, or bins. For each microscale interaction type i\u2208I, we denote the value of its metric, such as its potential, by e.","K is used herein to indicate the set of mesoscale interaction types. As used herein, a mesoscale interaction type k\u2208K is an observable-scale interaction where many microscale interactions combine to create the mesoscale interaction. For example, a protein to DNA binding is a mesoscale interaction comprised of all the energetic interactions occurring between protein atoms (or groups of atoms) and DNA atoms (or groups of atom). Formally, we associate with every mesoscale interaction k\u2208K, a vector C\u2208* where * is the set of positive integer vectors of dimension I. The vector Ccontains for each i\u2208I a count Cof the number of times that microscale interaction i is involved in mesoscale interaction k. For a microscale interaction type uninvolved in k\u2208K, its corresponding count is 0. Thus Crepresents the weight of the ith microscale interaction in the kth mesoscale interaction. For each mesoscale interaction k we denote its metric, such as its energy or its relative frequency of occurrence, by E. By definition of mesoscale and microscale, they are related for at least some metrics, such as energy, as given in Equation 1.\n\nfor all \u2003\u2003(1)\n","Using this notation, observations of the values of the metric Efor K mesoscale interaction types are used to determine the values of the metric e, any number of which serve as parameters for new models that predict values of the metric for other mesoscale interaction types, E, j\u2209K, when Cis known or can be approximated.","Values for eare inferred from measurements of Eusing any method known in the art. In some embodiments, linear regression is used to infer the values of the microscale metric. In linear regression, an output variable is considered to be the sum of products of an input variable and unknown constant coefficients. In the context of the proposed method, the mesoscale interaction metric, E, serves as the response variable, and the count vector Cserves as the input variable, and the values of the microscale metric efor i\u2208I are the inferred coefficients. Within the compressed sensing framework, the values of the mesoscale interaction metric Efor all K provide the set of compressive measurements, the count vectors for all K provide the sensor matrix (set of sensors) that is the known function, and the set of values of the micro scale metric efor all i\u2209I is the signal to be inferred.","If the values of the metric of mesoscale interactions cannot be observed directly, but their relationship to observables are known, such as relation of mesoscale binding energy to relative probabilities, then a constrained version of multinomial logistic regression can be shown to infer the values of the metric of the microscale interactions. An important feature of this embodiment is the use of a specific type of statistical mechanical ensemble, the canonical ensemble (see for example, McQuarrie D A, , University Science Books, Sausalito, Calif. pp xii, 641p, 2000).","An ensemble is a collection of physical states, for example the different structural conformations of a protein. In canonical ensembles, the temperature, volume, and number of particles are assumed identical across the states, but the energy may vary between states. In an illustrated embodiment, different mesoscale interactions correspond to different states of a canonical ensemble. For the protein-DNA binding problem, this corresponds to the protein binding to alternate DNA sequences with different binding energies. The probabilities of finding a system in each of the different states of a canonical ensemble follow the Boltzmann distribution. This property is exploited to reformulate edetermination as an instance of multinomial logistic regression. In this formulation, the relative probabilities of mesoscale interactions are used as experimental data. By relative probabilities is meant that the probability of a mesoscale interaction only has to be normalized with respect to two or more mesoscale interactions within the same canonical ensemble. Multiple distinct canonical ensembles can be used, and so not all mesoscale interactions need to come from the same canonical ensemble.","The general formulation is first derived, and then its formal equivalence is shown to multinomial logistic regression under appropriate constraint.","In this embodiment, K is the set of mesoscale interactions for which observations (described below) are available. K is partitioned into {K, K. . . K} blocks such that mesoscale interactions within a block Kcome from the same canonical ensemble, and there are L distinct canonical ensembles. In other words, for a fixed l\u2266L, for all k\u2208K, the temperature, volume, and number of particles are assumed fixed. Note that k is here used to refer to a mesoscale interaction within a given canonical ensemble.","For each canonical ensemble K, measurements are taken corresponding to the relative probabilities pof every measured mesoscale interaction for all k\u2208K, in the ensemble. In other words, for all l\u2266L, the measured probabilities obey Equation 2.\n\n1for all \u2003\u2003(2)\n","Since by definition all mesoscale interactions k\u2208Kcome from the same canonical ensemble, then the measured probability pof a given mesoscale interaction k is related to an energy metric of the mesoscale interactions as described by the Boltzmann distribution given by Equation 3a and 3b.\n\nexp(\u2212\u03b1)\u2003\u2003(3a)\n\n=\u03a3exp(\u2212\u03b1) over all \u2003\u2003(3b)\n\nWhere exp( ) indicates the exponential function of the base of the natural logarithm raised to the power of the argument inside the parentheses, Ehere is the energy metric of the mesoscale interaction, Zis the partition function of the canonical ensemble K, and \u03b1is the inverse temperature parameter for the ensemble (not following the standard convention of using \u03b2 for the inverse temperature).\n","Given a set of mesoscale interactions K for which the constituent microscale interactions I are known, and a partitioning of the mesoscale interactions such that the probabilities pare known for all l\u2266L, the energies eof the microscale interactions I can be inferred. The derivation is not shown here, but involves the steps of substituting into Equation 3a for Zusing Equation 3b, substituting for Eusing Equation 1, and re-arranging the terms to give a system of equations given by Equation 4.\n\nexp[\u03b1()]}\u2003\u2003(4)\n\nThis system of equations can be solved for efor i\u2208I. In some embodiments, the inverse temperature parameters \u03b1are treated as free parameters; and, in other embodiments the inverse temperature parameters \u03b1are experimentally known temperatures of the mesoscale interactions.\n","In some embodiments, Equation 4 is recast as a constrained version of multinomial regression. For this formulation, the inverse temperature parameters \u03b1are advantageously known a priori. For biological applications it is assumed that interactions occur under \u201cstandard biological conditions\u201d (e.g., see Berg J M, Tymoczko J L, & Stryer L , W.H. Freeman, New York, 6th Ed., 2007). Furthermore, for simplicity of derivation without loss of generality, it is assumed that the set K is partitioned into blocks of equal size of cardinality M and indexed such that the first M mesoscale interactions are in K, the second M mesoscale interactions are in K, and so forth, yielding {k=1,M}=K, {k=M+1,2M}=K, . . . , {k=(L\u22121)M+1,LM}=K. No loss of generality results from such a partitioning since zero-probability mesoscale interactions (e.g. all atoms are in the same position) can be used to pad canonical ensembles to be of equal size.","Using this partitioning, each canonical ensemble Kcan then be treated as a single data point in an M-class multinomial regression problem, with the regression input vectors {X\u2208}(where is the set of real-valued vectors of dimensionality 1(M\u22121)) having the form given by Equation 5a.\n\n={\u03b1()} for 11\u2003\u2003(5a)\n\nTogether, the input vectors Xdefine the design matrix X as given by Equation 5b.\n\n{}.\u2003\u2003(5b)\n\n(where is the set of real-valued vectors of dimensionality L*1(M\u22121)). The output vectors {Y\u2208}have the form given by Equation 5c.\n\n}\u2003\u2003(5c)\n\nTogether, the output vectors Ydefine the output matrix Y as given by Equation 5d.\n\n{}\u2003\u2003(5d)\n\nUsing this formulation, the multinomial logistic regression problem is expressed by Equation 6.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"Y","mrow":{"mi":["l","m"],"mo":","}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":[{"msup":{"mi":"e","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["X","l"]},{"mi":["\u03b2","m"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}},"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"M","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["X","l"]},{"mi":["\u03b2","n"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"msup":{"mi":"e","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b2","mrow":{"mi":["m","p"],"mo":","}},{"mi":"X","mrow":{"mi":["l","p"],"mo":","}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"+","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"M","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"e","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u03b2","mrow":{"mi":["n","p"],"mo":","}},{"mi":"X","mrow":{"mi":["l","p"],"mo":","}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["m,p ","l,m"],"sup":"th "},"Two constraints are introduced here, which, when enforced, make the statistical mechanical model of Equation 4 and multinomial logistic regression of Equation 6 equivalent. The two constraints are given by Equations 7a and 7b.\n\n\u220011(1)+1=0\u2003\u2003(7a)\n\n\u2200111=\u03b2\u2003\u2003(7b)\n\nBy letting k be the mmesoscale interaction of the lpartition of K, and noting the identity of Equation 7c\n\n\u2200(1)+1\u2003\u2003(7c),\n\nit can be shown that Equation 6 leads to Equation 4 where Y=pand the inferred coefficient \u03b2=efor all i\u2208I. This demonstrates equivalence of the statistical mechanical model to multinomial logistic regression, when the constraints are applied. This shows that the multinomial logistic regression of Equation 6 is used when the mesoscale metric is a probability. Additional constraints can be placed to exploit prior knowledge about the microscale interactions. For example, if the microscale interactions are known to be sparse in a certain basis, then they can be transformed to that basis. Furthermore, if the matrix of microscale interaction is known to be low-rank, then that constraint can be placed as well. In general, constraints encoding prior knowledge about the problem can be added to the formulation provided above.\n","This is an important result in the proposed method formulation. Once it is demonstrated that the de novo atom\/atom complex energy determination problem can be cast as a regression problem, the methods of compressed sensing can be considered to be applied to solve the regression problem.","Compressed sensing is a theoretical and applied framework that enables the recovery of a signal with high accuracy from relatively few measurements. In the context of the example regression formulation, the signal is the set of values of the microscale interaction metric {e}, (whether representing energy or some other aspect of the microscale interactions), the sensors are the K mesoscale interaction types {E}, such as protein-DNA or protein-protein binding events, and the measurements are the energies or relative probabilities of the mesoscale interaction types. Compressed sensing enables the use of relatively few measurements to infer the energies of the microscale interaction types underlying the mesoscale interaction types.","The application of compressed sensing to regression is achieved by imposing an lregularization penalty on the regression problem (e.g., see Tibshirani R \u201cRegression shrinkage and selection via the Lasso,\u201d v58 no. 1, pp 267-288, 1996.). Several compressed sensing approaches have been developed to accomplish this task. In an illustrated embodiment, the lasso penalty for linear regression is utilized with its generalization for logistic regression (e.g., see Friedman J, Hastie T, & Tibshirani R \u201cRegularization Paths for Generalized Linear Models via Coordinate Descent,\u201d v33 no. 1, pp 1-22, 2010). In other embodiments, other approaches are utilized, such as the Dantzig selector (e.g., see Candes E & Tao T \u201cThe Dantzig selector: Statistical estimation when p is much larger than n,\u201d v35 no. 6, pp 2313-2351, 2007) for linear regression and suitable generalizations for logistic regression (e.g., see James G M & Radchenko P \u201cA generalized Dantzig selector with shrinkage tuning,\u201d v96 no. 2, pp 323-337, 2009). Other generalizations that capture related notions of sparsity, for example, the nuclear norm penalty (e.g., see E. J. Cand\u00e8s and B. Recht, \u201cExact matrix completion via convex optimization,\u201d ., v9, pp 717-772, 2008) for low-rank matrices is used in some embodiments. Any penalty known in the art may be used.","For example, using the lasso penalty embodiment, one would solve the optimization problem given by Equation 8.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["min","e"]},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mrow":{"mi":["Ce","E"],"mo":"-"}},"mn":["2","2"]}},{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf605","\uf606"],"mi":"e"},"mn":"1"}}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}}},"Accurate inference of potentials is ultimately dependent on two important characteristics of the particular application. These two characteristics are the sparsity of the microscale interaction metric to be inferred, and the coherence of the mesoscale interaction measurements used for inference. The compressed sensing literature contains many theoretical guarantees about the expected number of measurements required, denoted by m, given a signal of length n with s non-zero entries and a sensor matrix X with coherence \u03bc (the design matrix in regression). The majority of these results concern sensor matrices with some degree of randomness (e.g., see Cand\u00e8s E & Plan Y \u201cA Probabilistic and RIPless Theory of Compressed Sensing,\u201d , v57, no. 11, pp 7235-7254, 2010). In the illustrated embodiment, the sensor matrix is fixed and defined by the set of K mesoscale interaction types in the data set. Theoretical guarantees for fixed matrices are also discussed (e.g., see Candes E J & Romberg J \u201cQuantitative robust uncertainty principles and optimally sparse decompositions,\u201d v6, no. 2, pp 227-254, 2006; and Tropp J A, \u201cOn the conditioning of random subdictionaries,\u201d v25 no. 1, pp 1-24, 2008).","In general, most results relate m to an increasing function of n, s, and \u03bc. In the context of the illustrated embodiment, n is the total number of possible microscale interactions, s is the number of microscale interaction types I\u2282I whose values are non-negligible, i.e. for all i\u2282I, e>>0, and \u03bc is the coherence of the sensor matrix X. Thus, if only a small number of the microscale interaction types are non-negligible (i.e., s is small), then only a small number of measurements are needed for accurate inference of the metric value. The role that \u03bc plays is slightly more subtle (the formal definition of \u03bc can be found in Candes E J & Wakin M B \u201cAn introduction to compressive sampling,\u201d v25, no. 2, pp 21-30, 2008.). Intuitively, coherence relates to the diversity of microscale interactions that constitute each mesoscale interaction. The greater the variety of microscale interactions participating in each experimentally characterized mesoscale interaction, the smaller the coherence. Thus, to minimize the number of experimental measurements needed, one needs to minimize the coherence of the sensor matrix. This implies that the mesoscale interaction types must incorporate as wide a range of microscale interaction types as possible. However, the degree to which the coherence of mesoscale interactions can be controlled is dependent on the application. For biological systems, the choice of biomolecules comprising the set of mesoscale interactions directly impacts the coherence of the sensor matrix.","In some embodiments, the regression equations of Equation 6 are solved using methods of compressed sensing. All regressions are regularized using the lasso penalty. Additionally, all mesoscale interactions are assumed to occur under \u201cstandard biological conditions\u201d so that there is a common temperature across all ensembles. Because the temperature is fixed, it can be factored out of the inferred microscale metric values, and so it is set equal to 1 to simplify the calculations.","The microscale interactions include two spatial metaparameters: binning width and cutoff distance. Binning width corresponds to the resolution at which contact distances are made discrete. Cutoff distance is the distance beyond which interactions are ignored. A third parameter, known as the regularization parameter \u03bb (1), adjusts the expected degree of sparsity of the microscale interaction types with non-negligible values. Values for these parameters are determined by fitting procedure using a training dataset where the values of the microscale metric, the mesoscale metric and the function (e.g., weights of the weighted sums) are known.","An l-regularized multinomial logistic regression is performed using commercially available software, such as the R-based glmnet package (e.g., see Friedman J, Hastie T, & Tibshirani R \u201cRegularization Paths for Generalized Linear Models via Coordinate Descent,\u201d 33, no. 1, pp 1-22, 2010) available online at subfolder i01 of folder v33 at World Wide Web (WWW) domain jstatsoft in domain category org. Solutions for the constrained regression problem Equation 6, Equation 7a and Equation 7b are feasible for the unconstrained regression problem, Equation 6 alone. Consequently, the constraints are not enforced in the illustrated embodiments to provide the technical advantage of greater computationally efficiency. It is anticipated that enforcing the constraints is unlikely to greatly improve accuracy of the results.","Example embodiments described here in detail are directed to protein-DNA interactions. This embodiment casts microscale potential determination as a compressed sensing problem.","For the protein-DNA example embodiment, the coherence of the sensor matrix is dependent on the set of protein-DNA complexes used as mesoscale interactions. For a given set of protein-DNA complexes whose atomic structures have been determined, the coherence \u03bc can be computed from the counts of atomic interactions present in the structures. This provides a principled approach for choosing new protein-DNA complexes for crystallization, based on their predicted atomic structures and the resulting value for \u03bc. By carefully selecting protein-DNA complexes that yield the smallest predicted coherence of the sensor matrix, the accuracy of the inferred protein-DNA potential can be increased with a small number of targeted crystallization experiments.","Several different embodiments for microscale potential determination are presented. The details common to all inferred protein-DNA embodiments are described first, and then the baseline microscale potential embodiment and embodiments for modified microscale potentials that relax physical constraints are described.","In all protein-DNA potentials in this section, the microscale interactions are defined as pairwise contacts between DNA and protein atoms at specified distance ranges. Intra-DNA interactions, known as indirect readout, are ignored, as are intra-protein interactions. We use the atom classification scheme of the Quasichemical potential (e.g., see Donald J E, Chen W W, & Shakhnovich E I \u201cEnergetics of protein-DNA interactions,\u201d v35 no. 4, pp 1039-1047, 2007), which takes into consideration the chemical identity of the atom as well as its local moiety. In this scheme there are 37 DNA atom types and 27 protein atom types. Contact distances are categorized into bins of fixed width (described below). Thus, a model with D distance bins contains a total of 37\u00d727\u00d7D interaction types. The potential inference problem is to determine the value of the energy metric of each of these microscale interaction types using experimental measurements of mesoscale interactions, specifically protein-DNA binding events. As described below, these binding events are based on protein-DNA crystal structures and their associated binding energies.","For this inference problem, the multinomial logistic regression approach of Equation 6 is used. The canonical ensembles are created by fixing the protein and varying the DNA sequence in computer simulations (called in silico) by substitution of the alternative nucleic acids at each site in the interaction region as described in the next paragraph. The conventional assumption is made that the DNA basepair positions in the interaction region are independent; and, each set of protein-DNA basepair complexes derived from separate protein-DNA crystal structures is treated as a separate canonical ensemble. Thus each ensemble is comprised of four mesoscale interactions, corresponding to one protein binding to each of the four possible nucleotide basepairs. Previous studies have provided justification for treating such ensembles as canonical ensembles.","The observations are obtained from experimental data of crystallized protein:DNA structures in conjunction with their experimentally determined DNA binding motifs. A single protein-DNA binding event corresponds to a protein-DNA basepair complex. For the regression input vectors, the function, e.g., weights of the weighted sums given by the counts of the interaction types as defined above, is assumed known or approximated for each protein-DNA binding event. In the illustrated embodiments, these counts are determined from the atomic coordinates of protein and DNA atoms in the x-ray crystal structures of protein:DNA complexes. For each protein:DNA crystal complex, in silico structural mutants are generated so that every basepair in each DNA position is in silico mutated to every possible alternative nucleotide and the associated mesoscale interaction energy is computed. (For example, if there is an \u201cA\u201d at a particular position, the three alternative structures with \u201cT\u201d, \u201cG\u201d, and \u201cC\u201d at that position are constructed.) Thus, for each protein:DNA complex with a DNA sequence of length N, a total of 4N structures and associated mesoscale metric values are obtained which are grouped into N canonical ensembles as previously described.","For the regression output vectors, values of the mesoscale metric for each mesoscale interaction type, the relative probabilities of the mesoscale interaction events within each canonical ensemble are obtained from observations. These relative probabilities correspond to the probabilities with which a protein binds to the four DNA nucleotides at a given position. When inferring a protein-DNA potential to predict consensus sequences from the crystal structures, the probability of binding to the nucleotide observed in the structure is set to 1, and the probability of binding to any other nucleotide is set to 0. A consensus sequence is a sequence of DNA nucleotides (bases) where a particular protein is most likely to bind to a DNA helix, as found by experiment. When inferring a protein-DNA potential for predicting position weight matrices (PWMs), the probabilities are derived from experimentally determined PWMs that are manually curated for each protein:DNA complex in the data set. A PWM is a set of probability distributions, one for each basepair position in the DNA binding site, over the four possible DNA nucleotides. The probability assigned to each protein-DNA binding event is the value of that event given in the experimental PWM.","A set of HTH:DNA complex structures from the Protein Data Bank (e.g., see Berman H M, et al., \u201cThe Protein Data Bank,\u201d v28, no. 1, pp 235-242, 2000) were obtained by searching for x-ray crystal structures that contain an HTH domain and DNA molecules. Complexes were considered to be redundant if they shared the same sequence of amino acids within a 10 residue window of the recognition \u03b1 helix, and only one representative for such complexes was retained. This criterion was chosen due to the dominant role that recognition \u03b1 helices play in effecting the sequence specificity of HTH proteins, and the fact that HTHs with otherwise highly similar sequences may still exhibit differential DNA binding properties. In addition, complexes with pathologies such as a large number of missing heavy atoms in the published structure were removed. The resulting data set is comprised of 63 non-redundant HTH:DNA complexes. For each of the HTH:DNA complexes in this data set, a PWM was derived based on experimental data curated from multiple sources.","3.1 Baseline Microscale Potential Embodiment","The baseline protein-DNA potential uses differences of counts of microscale interactions as the regression input vectors, as given above in Equation 5a. In the illustrated embodiment, one state within each canonical ensemble is used as a comparison category, where the states correspond to the four nucleotides. Guanine was arbitrarily chosen for this purpose.","In the crystal structure data set, it was found that only 9% of microscale interaction energies were non-negligible. This satisfies the condition for a sparse signal. Regarding the incoherent measurements, the energies of mesoscale interactions are incoherent measurements, because (i) they are the summed energies of the microscale interactions and thus integrate the intensity of multiple vector elements, and (ii) the set of microscale interactions present in each mesoscale interaction is highly variable, as shown above in .","Because the sensor vector elements for each measurement must be known or estimated, the microscale interactions comprising each mesoscale interaction must be known or estimated. Protein-DNA crystal structures provide a data set of mesoscale interactions whose constituent microscale interactions are identified from the positions of the protein and nucleotide atoms in the contact regions of the structure. The set of 63 non-redundant structures, combined with their measured binding affinities, were used as the data set for the de novo microscale potential determination described. The non-redundancy of these structures ensures that each mesoscale interaction samples a different set of microscale interactions, since the intrinsic variability of the structures due to their varying spatial conformations and different amino acid compositions results in high variability in the microscale interactions that constitute each mesoscale interaction. (The degree of incoherence is quantified in ). Now, because this method recasts potential determination as a compressed sensing problem, only a small number of incoherent measurements, i.e. experimentally characterized protein-nucleotide binding events, are needed. This circumvents the experimental combinatorial explosion problem cited earlier.","In the protein-DNA embodiment, a collection of protein-nucleotide complexes in which the protein is fixed and individual nucleotides are varied forms a canonical ensemble, and the protein's relative binding probabilities to different nucleotides are the experimental data (observations). These probabilities are obtained from experimentally-determined position weight matrices (PWMs) of protein binding sites or from consensus binding sequences by assuming that consensus nucleotides bind with 100% probability.","The probability-based formulation of Equation 6 was used to determine the protein-DNA potential of helix-turn-helix (HTHs) proteins and predict their consensus binding sequences and PWM motifs. The effort focused on HTH proteins because they are the most widely distributed family of DNA-binding proteins, occurring in all biological kingdoms, with a large number of structures in the Protein Data Bank. HTH proteins include virtually all bacterial transcription factors and about 25 percent of human transcription factors. For the prediction of consensus binding sequences, the microscale potential is inferred using probabilities derived from the consensus sequences of protein-DNA structures in a data set reserved for training the algorithm. A separate set of protein-DNA structures is used to test predictions made with the inferred potential.","For each protein-DNA structure in the test set, every DNA sequence position is mutated in silico to every possible pair of nucleotides, and the relative binding affinities of the mutated structures are computed. In silico mutagenesis was carried out using the 3DNA software package available online at domain x3dna of domain category org, which maintains the backbone atoms of the DNA molecule, but replaces the basepair atoms in a way that is consistent with the backbone orientation in the crystal. Independence of DNA positions was assumed; and this process was repeated for every position.","The most probable nucleotides at all positions are predicted with 12.9% error, compared to 42.1% error by the leading alternative method. Alternative methods are compared in Table 2, below. For the more complex problem of predicting quantitative PWMs, the potential was determined using probabilities derived from published experimentally-determined PWMs of the 63 protein-DNA structures in the data set. Compared to leading physical and statistical potentials, the de novo microscale potential of the illustrated embodiment produces the best PWM score using the symmetric Kullback-Leibler divergence (SKLD) metric. Note that the second and third best performing potentials require consensus binding sequences as input. Providing that input significantly simplifies the problem, whereas the illustrated embodiment infers the consensus binding sequences.","3.2 Transformed Inputs","Also considered were two generalizations that relax physical constraints, yielding pseudo potentials which perform better in practice. This embodiment uses transformed input vectors.","The \u201ctransformed inputs\u201d protein-DNA potential uses ratio of counts of microscale interactions as the regression input vectors. Specifically, the regression input vectors {X\u2208}are given by Equation 9.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["X","l"]},{"mrow":[{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03b1","l"]},"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"l","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"+","mi":"m"},"mo":",","mi":"i"}},"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"M"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":"C","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"M","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"l","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}},"mo":"+","mi":"n"},"mo":",","mi":"i"}}}}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":["i","I"],"mo":"\u2208"},{"mn":"1","mo":["\u2264","\u2264"],"mi":["m","M"]}],"mo":","}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}}},"In this protein-DNA potential all elements of the regression input vectors are also standardized such that their mean is zero and variance is one. Input vectors with this property typically exhibit better statistical properties.","3.3 Region Specific Energy Profiles","Distinct microscale potentials were determined for interactions occurring in different regions of the HTH-DNA binding interface, motivated by the observation that binding affinity is strongest in the core region of the binding interface and gets progressively weaker away from the core region.","In the \u201cregion-specific\u201d protein-DNA potential, the energies of microscale interactions are allowed to vary as a function of position along the protein-DNA binding interface. The motivation behind this generalization is addressed first, followed by a description of how region-specificity is incorporated into the protein-DNA energy regression.","A microscale interaction energy metric typically defines an interaction energy metric independently of the position of the interaction along the molecule. This is a desirable property when the position has no bearing on the energetics. However, if the position of the interaction is indicative of a consistent physico-chemical environment, properties of this environment can be exploited when modeling the energies of interactions. This is usually exploited on a small-scale, for example by treating two carbon atoms as distinct atom types depending on their chemical moiety, as in the C1\u2032 and C2\u2032 atoms of DNA. In that case, the carbon atom's local chemical moiety is the consistent physico-chemical environment, and it is used in modeling the system to influence the interaction energies of the atoms, by treating carbon atoms with distinct chemical moieties as distinct atom types.","For protein-DNA potentials, it was investigated whether this notion could be generalized to a larger spatial context, by deriving a Microscale interaction energy metric where the microscale interaction energies are allowed to vary as a function of position along the protein:DNA binding interface. A key requirement for such a metric to work is that any given position along the binding interface must exhibit a consistent physico-chemical environment across structures, for example to have essentially the same steric constraints. For the protein-DNA potential, it was hypothesized that this is the case when a set of proteins employ the same binding modality for docking into DNA, as is often true for members of the same protein family. It is anticipated that a region-specific model may be suitable for the Helix-turn-helix proteins (HTH) family, because (i) the sequence-specificity of HTHs is largely mediated by interactions between the DNA and the recognition \u03b1 helix of HTHs, and (ii) the relative orientation of the two core \u03b1 helices that make up the HTH domain is conserved across HTH families, despite the broad structural diversity of HTH domains.","All 63 HTH:DNA complexes in the data set were aligned by structure so that the DNA molecules are superimposed and the variation in the orientation and position of the recognition helices is minimized. Formally, if RMSDis the root mean square deviation (RMSD) between the backbone carbon atoms of two aligned DNA molecules, and RMSDis the RMSD between the C atoms of two aligned HTH recognition helices, then alignment is achieved by minimizing RMSDsubject to RMSD<\u03b4. For the illustrated embodiment, \u03b4 was set to 2 angstrom (\u212b).","Any HTH:DNA complex in the data set can be used as a baseline for a multiple alignment, so the complex that minimizes the average RMSDto all other complexes was selected. The resulting multiple alignment, shown in , produces a unified coordinate system along the HTH:DNA binding interface such that the physico-chemical environment at a given spatial position is comparable across all structures.  is a block diagram that traces the HTH recognition \u03b1 helix  and DNA helix  for each of 63 different HTH:DNA complexes after alignment, according to an embodiment. The left view is from a first direction, and the right view is in a perpendicular direction indicated by arrow .","To exploit this alignment in the determination of the protein-DNA potential, the resolution of the coordinate system is reduced to the level of individual DNA basepairs. In other words, the number of distinct positions in the coordinate system is made equal to the number of distinct DNA basepair positions in the HTH-DNA binding interface. In this way, a DNA base in one HTH:DNA complex is comparable with exactly one other DNA base in every other complex. In total there are 13 distinct DNA basepair positions, encompassing the largest observed HTH:DNA binding interfaces in the data set.","To incorporate region-specificity into the inferred protein-DNA microscale metric values, the elements of every regression input vector are duplicated 13 times. Formally, the regression input vectors have the form of Equation 10.\n\n={\u03b1()}\u222a{1()}\u2003\u2003(10)\n\nIn this formulation, the original set of elements in the input vectors are left unchanged, and the nth duplicate set in an ensemble representing the nth DNA basepair is also left unchanged. All other vector elements are set to 0. Xis a canonical ensemble that corresponds to a binding event at the nth DNA basepair position, and 1{r=n} is the indicator function testing whether r equals n. This encoding of the regression input vectors allows the inference algorithm to model the shared interaction energies common across all positions, as well as including position-specific adjustments among the microscale interaction types.\n\n3.4 Predicting Values for Metric of Different Mesoscale Interaction Types\n","In this section the de novo values of the microscale metric (potential) for protein-DNA microscale interaction types derived in one of the above embodiments are used to predict the values of the mesoscale metric (binding energy) for a different mesoscale interaction type, and, as a consequence, predict a DNA binding site of a protein. This is accomplished by first using the inferred protein-DNA microscale energy values to compute the binding energies of the protein:DNA structures, and then using those computed energies to predict the DNA binding sites of proteins that produces the strongest binding. The structure-based approach to binding site prediction is first described; and then the testing methodology and quality indicators used are detailed.","Starting with a protein:DNA x-ray crystal structure, structure-based methods transform the structure into a set of microscale interactions (in the illustrated embodiment, a count-weighted sum of certain protein atom to DNA atom contacts). Once the set of microscale interactions are identified, the overall binding energy of a protein:DNA structure is computed by adding up the individual energetic contributions from all the microscale interactions observed in the structure. How the interaction energies are defined depends on the choice of potential used; in the illustrated embodiment, the de novo protein-DNA microscale potential values described above are used to compute the binding energies. Formally, if I is the set of all interactions observed in a structure, eis the energetic contribution of interaction i, Cis the number of times interaction i is observed in the structure, then the binding energy of the structure, denoted by \u0394G is given by Equation 1, where \u0394G is the mesoscale metric Eand k indicates the current different mesoscale interaction type k.","The relative affinity of a protein to two different DNA sequences can be evaluated by computing the binding energy of the protein to those two sequences. This is done by fixing the protein in the protein:DNA complex and mutating the DNA sequence in silico. To make this problem computationally tractable, it is assumed here, as is often assumed, that the energetics for one DNA position in the binding interface can be computed separately from other positions. Doing so simplifies the computation by involving for a DNA sequence of length N only 4N energetic calculations, where each basepair in the DNA is mutated in silico to every possible nucleotide independently from other basepairs, and the binding energy of each of these in silico mutated protein:DNA structures is computed. Using the computed binding energies, the Boltzmann formula of Equations 3a and 3b can then be used to compute the probability of observing nucleotide m at position n, denoted by p. Equation 3a and 3b are used at position n, with k=m indicating the nucleotide base at position n, Kis the set of the four nucleotide bases {A, C, G, T} at position n, and E=\u0394G, is the binding energy of the structure when nucleotide m is at position n. For computation of relative energy when temperature is constant, \u03b1is set equal to 1. Performing this computation for every position n and every nucleotide m yields the predicted position weight matrix (PWM) for the DNA binding sites of the protein. When the consensus sequence is to be predicted, the most probable nucleotide at every position is chosen as the consensus nucleotide.","3.5 Validation Methods","In some embodiments, step  is included to validate the results (e.g., the values of the microscale metric for the set of microscale interaction types, or the most probable nucleotide at a position, or the most probable binding sites for a protein on a given DNA molecule).","To test the results from step  or , 9-fold cross validation (CV) was used. The 63 complexes were split into 9 groups of 7 complexes each. Each group yielded a testing configuration where 7 complexes comprise the test set, and the remaining 56 the training set. The model was trained on the training set and tested on the test set using all 9 testing configurations, and the average was taken over all test sets. Since some metaparameters vary the number of degrees of freedom in the model, fitting them strictly on the training set was not successful, as the algorithm would always maximize the number of degrees of freedom. Consequently the 3 metaparameters were fit by finding the value that minimizes average error over all test sets. Results are shown in , , ,  and Table 2. In the illustrated embodiment, the best fit produced values of the binning width as 1.3 \u212b, the cutoff distance as 5.9 \u212b, and \u03bb as 0.00113821.","In some embodiments of step , an objective was to provide a consistent testing environment for all methods considered for comparison with the results of step  or step . When original comparison\/validation code implementations were available, they were used; otherwise the method considered was implemented from equations, as for the Quasichemical potential. Recommended default settings were chosen when applicable, and all parameter settings fit using the original methods' data sets were left unchanged. For the Rosetta potential, the energetic terms were set to the following values: fa_atr=0.947733, fa_rep=0.577238, hb_sc=1.596235, gb_elec=0.203353, fa_sol=0.507356, dna_bs=0.1, and dna_bp=0.1. These values are based on the fitted parameters from Morozov A V, Havranek J J, Baker D, & Siggia E D, \u201cProtein-DNA binding specificity predictions with structural models,\u201d v33, no. 18, pp 5781-5798, 2005. Depending on the original data sets used for training each algorithm, some methods may have an advantage over other methods if their training data set included structures that were also in the curated test sets. Nonetheless, given the heterogeneous set of methods tested and their reliance on different types of input data, the methodology used provided a consistent and objective comparison.","When testing the consensus sequence predictions of the Rosetta algorithm and the DNAPROT algorithm (latter from, Angarica V E, Perez A G, Vasconcelos A T, Collado-Vides J, & Contreras-Moreira B, \u201cPrediction of TF target sites based on atomistic models of protein-DNA complexes,\u201d , v9, no. 1, p436, 2008), their indirect readout components had to be disabled as they explicitly rely on the consensus sequence itself as input. For Rosetta, this was done by setting the dna_bs and dna_bp terms to zero weight, to eliminate the indirect readout component from the potential. For DNAPROT, this was done by running it with the setting \u201c-p\u2032 -P -1 -e -c -D 0\u2032\u201d, which disables DNAPROT's indirect readout component and its Cumulative Contacts component (from Morozov A V & Siggia E D \u201cConnecting protein structure with predictions of regulatory sites,\u201d USA v104, no. 17, pp 7068-7073, 2007), both of which rely on the consensus sequence as input.","3.6 Comparisons with Other Methods","We tested these generalizations individually and in combination as shown in Table 2, below. Performance is assessed based on predictions of consensus sequences and PWMs averaged over the 63 structures in the data set. For consensus sequence prediction, error is measured by the percentage of incorrectly predicted bases. For PWM predictions, the average SKLD over all DNA positions is reported (lower is better). A random model in which all DNA basepairs are assumed to be equally likely is also shown for reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Performance of de novo microscale potential and other leading atom-atom"},{"entry":"potentials."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"Prediction Quality"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"PWM"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"Consensus","Symmetric"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Intra-DNA","Sequence","KL"]},{"entry":["Potential","Type","Interactions","Error","Divergence"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Random Model","N\/A","N\/A","\u2002\u200975%","3.335"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Methods Requiring Consensus Sequences"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Rosetta (12)","Physical","Yes","N\/A","2.632"]},{"entry":["Cumulative","Statistical","No","N\/A","2.033"]},{"entry":["Contacts (13)",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["DNAPROT (14)","Statistical","Yes","N\/A","1.991"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Methods Not Requiring Consensus Sequences"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["DNAPROT* (14)","Statistical","No","60.2%","3.279"]},{"entry":["Rosetta* (12)","Physical","No","50.8%","2.719"]},{"entry":["Quasichemical (6)","Statistical","No","42.1%","2.248"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"De novo Methods (Do Not Require Consensus Sequences)"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Baseline","De Novo","No","12.9%","1.960"]},{"entry":["Transformed Inputs","De Novo","No","10.2%","1.861"]},{"entry":["Region-Specific","De Novo","No","13.7%","1.792"]},{"entry":["Potentials",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Both","De Novo","No","10.1%","1.699"]},{"entry":"Generalizations"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"*Only the direct readout components of potentials are used in those tests since they do not require consensus sequences as input."}]}}]}}},"The consensus sequence predictions are slightly improved (10.1% vs. 12.9% error), but the improvement in PWM prediction is dramatic (SKLD of 1.699 vs. 1.960), larger than the gain obtained in going from the Quasichemical to the DNAPROT algorithm (2.248 vs. 1.991), which accounts for intra-DNA interactions and requires consensus sequences. The positive impact of this second generalization on PWM prediction, but not on consensus sequence prediction, results, it is believed, because consensus sequences do not capture the relative binding strength of protein-DNA interactions for alternative DNA sequences.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"],"b":["500","504","511","512","513"]},"In  for bar graph , the horizontal axis  indicates difference of PWMs in SKLD dimensionless units. The vertical axis indicates the 63 protein:DNA measurements in the data set for both generalizations. Using SKLD scores for PWM predictions lower scores indicate better agreement, with insets  (SEQ ID NOS: 7-8),  (SEQ ID NOS: 9-10) and  (SEQ ID NOS: 11-13) comparing experimentally-determined PWM (top) to prediction (bottom) for representative best, average and worst predictions, respectively. Each PWM is represented by the letters indicating the 4 nucleotides (bases) at each position with a height that represents the probability of that nucleotide (base) at that position in a binding event between the protein and the DNA molecule.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"],"i":["D. melanogaster ","S. cerevisiae ","H. sapiens ","D. melanogaster "]},"As discussed earlier, a collection of sensors must be substantively incoherent to insure high-quality reconstruction of the underlying potential with compressive sensing methods, and the potential must be sufficiently sparse relative to the number of available measurements. To determine the degree to which these requirements are satisfied by the potentials derived from the protein:DNA complexes in the illustrated embodiment, the best performing Baseline model was considered, applied without the two generalizations discussed in the previous section. This model produced values of potential for a total of 2,997 unique microscale interactions using 1.3 \u212b wide distance bins and 5.9 \u212b cutoff distance as metaparameters. The total number of sensors in the data set is 592, as each protein-DNA crystal structure yields multiple sensors (making the common assumption of independence between DNA basepair positions). As previously noted, accurate inference is still possible despite having a smaller number of sensors than the number of unique microscale interactions, if the potential is sufficiently sparse. Of the 2,997 unique interactions, only 270 have non-negligible values of potential, suggesting that the illustrated embodiment will yield accurate potentials. In fact, it is likely that the best performing choices of binning width and cutoff distance used for the Baseline model represent the optimal tradeoff between spatial resolution and statistical power.","The protein-DNA binding site predictions reported exhibit a dramatic improvement over the leading alternative methods, with predictions within the experimental error of the PWMs for at least half of the cases studied. Although the accuracy depicted in  and  is substantially better than achieved with alternative methods, the predictions for the proteins in the lower quarter of the figure should be improved. The 63 protein-DNA complexes in the illustrated database may provide biased or insufficient coverage of some of the microscale interactions. Or, there could be significant variance in the quality of the crystal structures determined for the different complexes in the database that we curated from the Protein Data Base. Additionally, prediction errors might reflect the effects of other mechanisms that affect the shape and accessibility of the DNA in vivo so that the structure of the crystallized complex differs from the in vivo structure. Also, some transcription factors have been observed to bind DNA with two or more distinct motifs, and the alternate motifs would be missing from the data set used.","As in other CS application domains, the accuracy of the inferred potentials depends on the characteristics of the sensor matrix; in this case, the collection of protein-DNA structures available. As discussed above, quantitative measures such as coherence can be used to assess the suitability of a sensor matrix for compressive sensing. These measures can provide a principled framework for selecting additional crystallization targets that will maximally enhance the sensing performance of a protein-DNA structural data set. It was shown above that the example data set has good incoherence properties, yet it is expected that the addition of more protein-DNA crystal structures, specifically chosen to yield a sensor matrix with even lower coherence, will yield more accurate potentials and better binding site predictions.","While statistical potentials and the illustrated embodiments both use experimental data sets to derive the final potential, de novo potentials of the illustrated embodiment are nonparametric, i.e. they do not assume an underlying mathematical form. In contrast, statistical potentials rely on experimental data sets to fit a parametric model with a fixed mathematical form. De novo potentials overcome additional limitations specific to statistical potentials. First, while statistical potentials only utilize atomic data such as crystal structures to fit their parameters, de novo potentials combine structural information and experimental binding data into a single formulation for inference. In the field of protein-DNA binding site prediction, combining these types of data has been a longstanding objective. Second, statistical potentials implicitly assume that all structures come from the same canonical ensemble. This oversimplification ignores the chain connectivity and amino acid composition of proteins, and it is thought to be the cause of common anomalies observed in statistical potentials. In de novo potentials, this assumption is eliminated in the energy-based formulation, and it is relaxed significantly in the probability-based formulation, so that only subsets of the data are assumed to form canonical ensembles. Third, by assigning equal weight to microscale interactions observed in different structures, statistical potentials implicitly assume that different structures have the same binding or formation energy. This is not the case, as different protein-DNA complexes are known to have different binding affinities. From a statistical mechanical standpoint, high affinity complexes correspond to more frequent mesoscale interactions than low affinity complexes, requiring that the underlying microscale interactions be given proportionally greater weight. De novo potentials take this into account, as the binding energies of mesoscale interactions are an explicit part of the formulation. Fourth, there is no theoretical assurance that as more data is added for the statistical potential fitting process, the inferred energies will ultimately converge to the true underlying interaction energies. The same observation holds for physical potentials. In contrast, for de novo potentials, if the formal requirements of compressed sensing are satisfied, then additional sensors in the data set will lead to ever closer estimates of the interaction energies.","The important insight that underlies the de novo methodology illustrated here is that experimental data sets relating to mesoscale interactions in a wide range of fields can be cast as incoherent measurements of microscale interactions in the compressed sensing framework. In these cases, powerful compressed sensing methods can be used to determine de novo potentials. In the current protein-DNA application, microscale interactions were defined to always involve one protein atom and one DNA atom, thus neglecting intra-DNA interactions. If microscale interactions are defined to include non-covalent contacts between two DNA atoms, then the indirect readout component of protein-DNA interactions can also be modeled, capturing intra-DNA interactions.","Similarly, to infer a potential for protein-protein interactions or for protein folding, non-covalent contacts between protein atoms would be treated as the microscale interactions. However, interactions need not be restricted to those involving pairs of atoms. Interactions involving multiple atoms, as well as coarse-grained potentials in which the \u201catoms\u201d of the systems are residues for example, could be used. For mesoscale measurements of protein-protein interactions, biochemical data on protein-protein binding kinetics can be used. The Protein-protein Interaction Thermodynamic Database (PINT) is a database of such measurements (e.g., see Kumar M. D. and M. M. Gromiha, \u201cPINT: Protein-protein Interactions Thermodynamic Database,\u201d v34, Database issue, pp D195-198, 2006). For mesoscale measurements of protein folding, the kinetics or mean folding times of proteins are used. While such measurements are difficult to obtain, significant progress in experimental techniques has been made recently. The advent of these new experimental techniques promises to make such measurements more readily available in the future.","Signaling Networks.","The ability to predict protein binding sites on DNA and other biomolecular interaction kinetics will have profound practical benefits for accelerating and reducing the cost of determining cellular signaling networks. Defects in cell signaling are important in many diseases. This method will enable accurate computational prediction of effects of mutations in signaling proteins in their active regions or in DNA sequences within binding sites.","Drug Interaction Sites.","The quantitative microscale potentials yielded by this method will enable drug designers to predict drug interaction sites and drug reactivity with greater precision than now possible.","Bioreactors.","Molecular binding affinities are an important determinant of enzyme reaction rates. Knowledge of the microscale potentials that are the basis for these binding affinities will enable design of custom enzymes for application in commercial bioreactors, including those involved in production of biofuels.","Gene Regulatory Networks.","Understanding of genetic regulation in all organisms is dependent on identification of the genes regulated by each particular protein transcription factor. That is, determining the genes that have binding sites for each transcription factor. Currently, the laboratory procedures required for these identifications are complex, expensive, and labor intensive. The ability to computationally predict these binding sites, and hence the regulated genes, will enable much more focused, and hence less expensive, laboratory procedures. These benefits will accrue even for predictions that are not absolutely precise, by reducing the number of possibilities that have to be explored in the laboratory. These benefits are particularly important for human genetics, due to the complexity of the genetic regulation of higher organisms, and to the difficulty of doing laboratory experiments on mammalian subjects.","Gene Therapy.","A major challenge in the field of gene therapy is the design of enzymes that insert new genetic material into specific regions of the human genome. Without the ability to target these insertions with high accuracy, misplaced insertions can lead to significant side effects on the patient's health. The design of sequence-specific enzymes depends on our ability to predict the DNA-binding site of those enzymes, which is a major application of this method.","Molecular Dynamics Simulation.","Potentials are used as the basis of any molecular dynamics simulation, in the form of the energy function that is used to compute the energy of the simulated system at every step of the simulation. Consequently the accuracy of molecular dynamics simulations is intimately related to the accuracy of the underlying potential. This method provides a purely experiment-based approach to infer such potentials with higher accuracy than is now possible with conventional potentials.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0132"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","710","700","700"]},"A sequence of binary digits constitutes digital data that is used to represent a number or code for a character. A bus  includes many parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors  for processing information are coupled with the bus . A processor  performs a set of operations on information. The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus  and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information, shifting positions of units of information, and combining two or more units of information, such as by addition or multiplication. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor  constitute computer instructions.","Computer system  also includes a memory  coupled to bus . The memory , such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory  is also used by the processor  to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system  also includes a read only memory (ROM)  or other static storage device coupled to the bus  for storing static information, including instructions, that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus  is a non-volatile (persistent) storage device , such as a magnetic disk or optical disk, for storing information, including instructions, that persists even when the computer system  is turned off or otherwise loses power.","Information, including instructions, is provided to the bus  for use by the processor from an external input device , such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user, or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus , used primarily for interacting with humans, include a display device , such as a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a liquid crystal display (LCD), for presenting images, and a pointing device , such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys, for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display  and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .","In the illustrated embodiment, special purpose hardware, such as an application specific integrated circuit (IC) , is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor  quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display , cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network, speech recognition, and interfaces to special external devices, such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.","Computer system  also includes one or more instances of a communications interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors, such as printers, scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link  that is connected to a local network  to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example, communication interface  may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus (USB) port on a personal computer. In some embodiments, communications interface  is an integrated services digital network (ISDN) card or a digital subscriber line (DSL) card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments, a communication interface  is a cable modem that converts signals on bus  into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example, communications interface  may be a local area network (LAN) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN, such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. Carrier waves, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves travel through space without wires or cables. Signals include man-made variations in amplitude, frequency, phase, polarization or other physical properties of carrier waves. For wireless links, the communications interface  sends and receives electrical, acoustic or electromagnetic signals, including infrared and optical signals, that carry information streams, such as digital data.","The term computer-readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor , including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including, but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media include, for example, dynamic memory . Transmission media include, for example, coaxial cables, copper wire, fiber optic cables, and waves that travel through space without wires or cables, such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves, including radio, optical and infrared waves. The term computer-readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor , except for transmission media.","Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, a hard disk, a magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a compact disk ROM (CD-ROM), a digital video disk (DVD) or any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, or any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a programmable ROM (PROM), an erasable PROM (EPROM), a FLASH-EPROM, or any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term non-transitory computer-readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor , except for carrier waves and other signals.","Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer-readable storage media and special purpose hardware, such as ASIC .","Network link  typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to equipment  operated by an Internet Service Provider (ISP). ISP equipment  in turn provides data communication services through the public, world-wide packet-switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server  connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example, server  provides information representing video data for presentation at display .","The invention is related to the use of computer system  for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention, those techniques are performed by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions, also called software and program code, may be read into memory  from another computer-readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory  causes processor  to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hardware, such as application specific integrated circuit , may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.","The signals transmitted over network link  and other networks through communications interface , carry information to and from computer system . Computer system  can send and receive information, including program code, through the networks ,  among others, through network link  and communications interface . In an example using the Internet , a server  transmits program code for a particular application, requested by a message sent from computer , through Internet , ISP equipment , local network  and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor  as it is received, or may be stored in storage device  or other non-volatile storage for later execution, or both. In this manner, computer system  may obtain application program code in the form of a signal on a carrier wave.","Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor  for execution. For example, instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system  receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra-red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra-red a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface  receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus  carries the information to memory  from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory  may optionally be stored on storage device , either before or after execution by the processor .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0146","num":"0145"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["800","800","800"]},"In one embodiment, the chip set  includes a communication mechanism such as a bus  for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor  has connectivity to the bus  to execute instructions and process information stored in, for example, a memory . The processor  may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi-core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi-core processor include two, four, eight, or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition, the processor  may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus  to enable independent execution of instructions, pipelining, and multithreading. The processor  may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors (DSP) , or one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC) . A DSP  typically is configured to process real-world signals (e.g., sound) in real time independently of the processor . Similarly, an ASIC  can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays (FPGA) (not shown), one or more controllers (not shown), or one or more other special-purpose computer chips.","The processor  and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory  via the bus . The memory  includes both dynamic memory (e.g., RAM, magnetic disk, writable optical disk, etc.) and static memory (e.g., ROM, CD-ROM, etc.) for storing executable instructions that when executed perform one or more steps of a method described herein. The memory  also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of one or more steps of the methods described herein.","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. Throughout this specification and the claims, unless the context requires otherwise, the word \u201ccomprise\u201d and its variations, such as \u201ccomprises\u201d and \u201ccomprising,\u201d will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated item, element or step or group of items, elements or steps but not the exclusion of any other item, element or step or group of items, elements or steps. Furthermore, the indefinite article \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d is meant to indicate one or more of the item, element or step modified by the article."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["320","310"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
