---
title: Personal assistant context building
abstract: Technologies related to personal assistant context building are generally described. In some examples, network service communications, such as network traffic resulting from the use of mobile applications or “apps” on a mobile device, may be captured, parsed, and included in personal assistant context databases for use in configuring automated personal assistant user interaction operations. In some examples, parsing services may be provided to parse forwarded network service communications and generate converted data for inclusion in personal assistant context databases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171092&OS=09171092&RS=09171092
owner: EMPIRE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LLC
number: 09171092
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121207
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS APPLICATION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This is a U.S. National Stage Application filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application PCT\/US12\/68404, entitled \u201cPERSONAL ASSISTANT CONTEXT BUILDING\u201d, filed on Dec. 7, 2012, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","Unless otherwise indicated herein, the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.","Computing devices, particularly mobile devices such as smart phones and tablet devices, are increasingly being equipped with automated personal assistant software. For example, devices equipped with the iOS 5 operating system made by APPLE\u00ae Corporation include an automated personal assistant named \u201cSiri\u201d. Devices equipped with versions of the Android operating system made by GOOGLE\u00ae Corporation include an automated personal assistant referred to as \u201cVoice Actions\u201d or \u201cGoogle Now\u201d. Device users may also choose from a variety of third-party personal assistant applications, which applications may be supplied through digital marketplaces such as those provided by APPLE\u00ae, GOOGLE\u00ae, and AMAZON\u00ae.","The function of personal assistants has been partially demonstrated, however, personal assistants may be improved to achieve greater utility, convenience and power. By way of example, there is an ongoing need in the industry to increase the power, flexibility, and convenience of personal assistants to better serve device users.","The present disclosure generally describes technologies including devices, methods, and computer readable media relating to personal assistant context building. Some example methods may comprise automated personal assistant methods performed by computing devices, e.g., by mobile devices equipped with automated personal assistants. Example methods may include a data collection and database configuration stage, and a user interaction stage. In the data collection and database configuration stage, a computing device may detect a network service communication; obtain parsed personal assistant data extracted from the network service communication; and\/or store the parsed personal assistant data in a personal assistant context database. The computing device may adjust relative weights of relationships between the parsed personal assistant data stored in the personal assistant context database, for example by strengthening weights of relationships between the parsed personal assistant data extracted from the network service communication.","In the user interaction stage, the computing device may receive an automated personal assistant user input; determine strong weighted relationships between the received user input and other personal assistant data in the personal assistant context database; and configure a user interaction operation using personal assistant data having the strong weighted relationships.","Some example methods may comprise providing a parsing service. Example methods may be carried out by a network server. The network server may receive from a computing device a copy of a network service communication, and parse data extracted from the network service communication to generate parsed personal assistant data. In parsing the network service communication, the network server may for example maintain a network service library including service translation information for a plurality of network services; identify service translation information in the network service library for the network service corresponding to the network service communication; and convert data extracted from the network service communication using the identified service translation information. The network server may include the converted data in the parsed personal assistant data and send the parsed personal assistant data to the computing device.","Computing devices and computer readable media having instructions implementing the various technologies described herein are also disclosed. Example computer readable media may comprise non-transitory computer readable storage media having computer executable instructions executable by a processor, the instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to carry out any combination of the various methods provided herein. Example computing devices may comprise a processor, a memory, and an automated personal assistant configured to carry out the methods described herein. Example network servers may comprise a processor, a memory, and a parsing service configured to carry out the methods described herein.","The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects, embodiments, and features described above, further aspects, embodiments, and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof. In the drawings, similar symbols typically identify similar components, unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description, drawings, and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized, and other changes may be made, without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure, as generally described herein, and illustrated in the Figures, may be arranged, substituted, combined, and designed in a wide variety of different configurations, all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.","The present disclosure is generally drawn, inter alia, to technologies including methods, devices, systems and\/or computer readable media deployed therein relating to personal assistant context building. In some examples, network service communications, such as network traffic resulting from the use of mobile applications or \u201capps\u201d on a mobile device, may be captured, parsed, and included in personal assistant context databases for use in configuring automated personal assistant user interaction operations. In some examples, parsing services may be provided to parse forwarded network service communications and to generate converted data for inclusion in personal assistant context databases.","In some embodiments, personal assistant context building may provide value to interpret the meaning of received user inputs, such as voice commands, by personal assistants. The terms \u201cuser input\u201d and \u201cpersonal assistant user input\u201d are used interchangeably herein, and refer to inputs to a personal assistant unless otherwise indicated. User inputs may take the form of spoken voice commands or inquires, although other user input types, such as text entries via a keyboard, are also possible as will be appreciated. For example, a mobile device user may ask a personal assistant, \u201cWhere is the starting line for the half-marathon?\u201d Absent context information, it may be difficult or impossible for the personal assistant to provide a meaningful response to the user input. The personal assistant would not \u201cknow\u201d which half marathon the user is interested in. As a result, the personal assistant may throw an error, or may require the user to answer additional questions to establish the missing information. The mobile device context is used in this example with the understanding that the technologies described herein may be adapted for any computing devices equipped with personal assistants.","At least partial context information may be gathered from network traffic involving apps installed on the mobile device. For example, the user in the example above may have recently used an app provided by a race information service, such as the \u201cActive.com\u201d app made by Active Network, Inc.\u00ae, to look up the La Jolla half marathon on Apr. 28, 2013. Information from network service communications by the Active.com app may be stored in the mobile device's personal assistant context database.","By including information from network service communications involving apps installed on the mobile device in the mobile device's personal assistant context database, the personal assistant may have sufficient context to accurately configure satisfactory automated personal assistant user interaction operations responsive to received user inputs. The terms \u201cuser interaction operation\u201d and \u201cpersonal assistant user interaction operation\u201d are used interchangeably herein, and refer to outputs by a personal assistant, or actions performed by a personal assistant which are perceptible to the user. User interaction operations may \u201cinteract\u201d with the user for example by providing information to the user and\/or soliciting further input from the user. For example, some user interaction operations may comprise audible speech outputs. Some user interaction operations may comprise questions asking the user for additional input. Some user interaction operations may comprise visual displays such as map interfaces, photographs, web pages, or telephone keypad interfaces that may be preconfigured for dialing one or more contacts.","For example, in response to the above example \u201cWhere is the starting line for the half-marathon?\u201d user input, a personal assistant may use context information from the Active.com app network service communications to determine that the user input likely refers to the La Jolla half marathon on Apr. 28, 2013. The personal assistant may then for example determine the event location, e.g., the starting line for the race of interest, and the personal assistant may configure a user interaction operation comprising a display of an address or map interface, or an audible speech output or response comprising the event location. Alternatively, the personal assistant may configure a user interaction operation comprising a question such as, \u201cDo you mean the location of the La Jolla half marathon on Apr. 28, 2013?\u201d","Context information is not necessarily needed in connection with all personal assistant user inputs. Some user inputs, such as a voice command, \u201ccall Bob\u201d, may be unambiguous and may be executed by personal assistants without consulting a personal assistant context database. However, context may be beneficial in connection with configuring user interaction operations responsive to many personal assistant user inputs. Configuring user interaction operations responsive to even seemingly unambiguous user inputs such as \u201ccall Bob\u201d may in some cases benefit from consulting context information, e.g., when there are multiple contacts named \u201cBob\u201d among the mobile device user's contacts.","In some embodiments, personal assistants may attain an increased level of situational and context awareness by observing network service communications, such as Application Programming Interface (API) calls and responses. The network service communications may comprise network communications between apps and\/or web pages loaded on a mobile device, and off-device network nodes, such as network servers hosting network APIs and\/or other network services with which the on-device apps and\/or web pages may communicate. The network service communications may be interpreted and stored in a personal assistant context database, optionally among other context information that may be gathered from other sources for inclusion in personal assistant context databases.","Embodiments of this disclosure need not rely upon active cooperation from apps installed on the mobile device, such as apps that may be configured to cooperate by entering relevant data into a central repository, e.g., central calendars or address books. Solutions presented herein may also provide more information than might be obtained through active cooperation, by including information related to inconclusive user activities, such as information identifying products, events, activities, locations, or other items that are investigated through an app or webpage, and are therefore identified in API calls and responses, or other network service communications, but which products, events, activities, locations, or other items may not have been purchased, registered, flagged or otherwise subject to interactions that may trigger cooperative action by a cooperating app.","Large numbers of web based APIs are currently available and used by apps and mobile-enabled web pages. By way of example, travel APIs enable research and purchase of airfare, hotel rooms, and car rental. Social network APIs enable posting of photos, status updates, messaging, establishing connections and the like. Location based APIs allow retrieval of maps, restaurants, bus stops, real estate listings, weather forecasts, or any of a huge variety of other location-based information. Email APIs enable reading, composing and sending email. Calendar APIs enable making and checking calendar entries, sending invitations to other participants, and the like. Event APIs enable research and purchase of event tickets. Small businesses use web APIs to enable customers to schedule appointments. These APIs are the building blocks of the modern programmable web. One programmer web site, provided by ProgrammableWeb.com, recently listed information on 8045 different web accessible APIs. In many cases, apps and mobile-enabled web pages may comprise a front end for a cluster of web API calls, and may perform API calls in connection with many of their operations. As a result, network service communications such as API calls and responses present a potentially large source of information that may be useful for establishing personal assistant context information.","In some embodiments, computing devices may be equipped with a packet sniffer that detects network service communications, a parser to parse the network service communications, and a classifier to classify the network service communications in a personal assistant context database. Technologies disclosed herein may use the packet sniffer, parser, and classifier in a data collection and database configuration stage, to configure personal assistant context databases. Personal assistants may then make use of the personal assistant context databases in a user interaction stage, wherein personal assistant context databases may be used to determine context for user interaction operations.","In some embodiments, the packet sniffer may be configured in a network layer of a device operating system. The packet sniffer may be configured to detect network service communications, e.g., by analyzing network traffic for API calls. API calls may be identified, for example, by detecting network traffic comprising http post and get calls with command and option fields, by detecting network traffic comprising API key fields, by detecting network traffic comprising API destinations, by detecting format tags such as JSON or XML format tagging markers, by detecting communications with known APIs, by packet fingerprint or structural analysis, and\/or using any other technique to detect network service communications. The packet sniffer may also be configured to detect responses from API calls, e.g., responses in Extensible Markup Language (XML) or JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) format. The packet sniffer may alternatively or additionally be configured to detect any other types of network service communications, whether API communications or otherwise. The packet sniffer may be configured to forward copies of detected network service communications to the parser.","In some embodiments, parsers may be configured within computing devices, e.g., as a component of a personal assistant on a mobile device. Parsers may be configured to parse copies of network service communications. Parsers may for example remove data from network service communications that is not relevant or cannot be used for personal assistant context building. Parsers may for example group data from network service communications into contextual groups for personal assistant context building. Parsers may for example convert data from network service communications into another form by inserting or modifying data in parsed personal assistant data to improve data utility as context building information. Parsers may be configured to store parsed personal assistant data in personal assistant context databases, or to otherwise temporarily store parsed personal assistant data for further processing, e.g., by classifiers as described herein, wherein the further processing may eventually store parsed personal assistant data in personal assistant context databases.","In embodiments in which obtaining parsed personal assistant data comprises parsing network service communications by computing devices, e.g., by a parser in a personal assistant on a mobile device as introduced above, computing devices may be configured to convert parsed personal assistant data into another form, e.g., into a form that is designed for use in the personal assistant context database. Example approaches may include identifying service translation information for a network API corresponding to the network service communication to be parsed; converting data extracted from the network service communication using the identified service translation information to produce converted data; and including the converted data in the parsed personal assistant data.","In some embodiments, computing devices may be configured to maintain a network API library including service translation information for a plurality of network APIs, for use in identifying service translation information for network APIs corresponding to particular network service communications. In some embodiments, computing devices may be configured to connect to a network API library service to retrieve service translation information for network APIs corresponding to particular network service communications.","In some embodiments, computing devices may be configured to access a parsing service via a network connection, e.g., a parsing service configured as a cloud service. In such embodiments, computing devices may be configured to obtain parsed personal assistant data by forwarding copies of network service communications to the remote parsing service, and subsequently receiving parsed personal assistant data returned from remote parsing service. Remote parsing services may be configured, for example, to receive copies of network service communications, such network service requests and\/or network service responses, and to parse data extracted from the received network service communications to generate parsed personal assistant data. Parsing services may be configured to send parsed personal assistant data to computing devices for application in personal assistant context databases, e.g., either by returning parsed personal assistant data to the device that originally forwarded a network service communication, or by delivering parsed personal assistant data to a cloud-based personal assistant context database.","In some embodiments, parsing services may be configured to convert data into another form, e.g., into a form that is designed for use in personal assistant context databases, as described above. A parsing service may for example maintain a network service library including service translation information for a plurality of network services; identify service translation information in the network service library for a network service corresponding to a particular network service communication; convert data extracted from the network service communication using the identified service translation information to produce converted data; and include the converted data in parsed personal assistant data that is returned to a mobile device.","In some embodiments, classifiers may be configured to classify network service communications in personal assistant context databases, e.g., by adjusting relative weights of relationships between (among) parsed personal assistant data stored in personal assistant context databases. The adjusting may comprise strengthening weights of relationships between (among) parsed personal assistant data extracted from a network service communication, relative to other relationships between (among) personal assistant data in the personal assistant context database. For example, if a network service communication included the terms \u201cLa Jolla\u201d and \u201chalf-marathon\u201d, a relationship weight between (among) these terms may be strengthened relative to relationship weights between (among) other terms that may not have been included in the network service communication.","In some embodiments, classifiers may be configured within computing devices, e.g., as a component of a personal assistant on a mobile device. In some embodiments, remote parsing services such as those described above may include classifiers that perform at least some classification functions. Remote parsing service classifiers may be configured to classify data from network service communications received from mobile devices, and to include classification information such as relative weights of relationships between the parsed personal assistant data, or classification adjustment deltas, in parsed personal assistant data that is returned to mobile devices. For example, parsing services may be configured to determine relative weights of relationships between parsed personal assistant data, to include the relative weights of relationships in the parsed personal assistant data, and to send the parsed personal assistant data including relative weights of relationships to mobile devices for incorporation into personal assistant context databases. Parsing services may alternatively send the parsed personal assistant data including relative weights of relationships to a cloud-based personal assistant context database. Mobile devices or cloud-based personal assistant context databases may be configured to include received parsed and classified parsed personal assistant data in personal assistant context databases, and optionally to adjust relationship weights according to classification adjustment deltas.","Personal assistants may make use of personal assistant context databases in a user interaction stage, wherein personal assistant context databases may be used to determine context for user interaction operations. For example, personal assistants may be configured to receive an automated personal assistant user input, e.g., a voice input such as the example question, \u201cWhere is the starting line for the half-marathon?\u201d described above. Text or other inputs may also be received, depending on personal assistant capabilities. Personal assistants may be configured to use context information to configure an automated personal assistant user interaction operation, based on the received user input. For example, personal assistants may be configured to use context information to determine which half marathon is intended by the user, to configure an automated personal assistant user interaction operation in which a map interface to the event location is displayed.","Using context information to configure an automated personal assistant user interaction operation may comprise, for example, determining, using a received user input and a personal assistant context database, one or more strong weighted relationships between the received user input and other personal assistant data in the personal assistant context database; and configuring an automated personal assistant user interaction operation using personal assistant data in the personal assistant context database having the one or more strong weighted relationships with the user input.","In some embodiments, using a personal assistant context database may comprise interacting with a context database that is maintained locally at a computing device comprising the personal assistant. In some embodiments, using a personal assistant context database may comprise interacting with a cloud-based context database that is maintained by a personal assistant network service.","In some embodiments, configuring the automated personal assistant user interaction operation may comprise configuring an internet search, e.g., configuring a search for information on the event location for the La Jolla half-marathon. In some embodiments, configuring the automated personal assistant user interaction operation may comprise configuring a voice interaction with the mobile device user, e.g., configuring a question such as \u201cAre you requesting the location of the La Jolla half marathon?\u201d Of course, user interaction operations may comprise a wide variety of actions such as placing a call, sending a text message, posting information to a social network, displaying requested information, retrieving driving directions, or any of a wide variety of other possible user interaction operations. Any action performed by a personal assistant in response to a user input may be considered a \u201cpersonal assistant user interaction operation\u201d herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","180","100","101","102","103","120","150","120","121","122","123","124","150","151","151","152"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["161","102","180","150","151","162","180","102","150","151","171","161","152","121","172","162","152","121","121","122","122","121","122","123","122","123","124","122","124","123"]},"In , browser , app , and widget  are examples of applications that may execute on mobile device.  illustrates network service communications  and  by app  for simplicity of illustration, however, it will be appreciated that browser , widget , or any other application capable of sending and receiving network service communications may be subject to the context building technologies described herein. Nonetheless, some embodiments may distinguish between different types of applications, and may be applied to some types of applications, or some application communications, while excluding other types of applications or communications. For example, in some embodiments, the context building technologies disclosed herein may be directed to network service communications by apps such as app  and not to network service communications by browser  or widget . Embodiments may for example turn packet sniffer  on or off based on which of applications , , or  is controlling mobile device , or may configure packet sniffer to detect network service communications having properties corresponding to apps such as app , and not to detect network service communications having properties corresponding to browser  or widget .","A \u201cnetwork service communication\u201d is defined herein as a programmatic access to an automated network service, the automated network service configured to provide an automatic response to such programmatic access, or the automated network service response to such programmatic access. A network API, implemented for example by a computing device within network , is an example of an automated network service. A network API call is an example of a network service communication, in the form of a network service request. A network API response is another example of a network service communication, in the form of a network service response.","Information from an example API call made by an active.com widget, and captured to serve herein as an example network service communication is provided below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2003GET\/resource\/assetservice\/asset\/3a1b52e7-9d67-42f2-9bb8-",{}]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003f4c624a0d280?api_key=",{}]},{"entry":[{},"[deleted api key] HTTP\/1.1",{}]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Host: api.amp.active.com",{}]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Connection: keep-alive",{}]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003Cache-Control: max-age=0"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Information from an example communication session, following the above initial API call made by an active.com widget, and including various API calls and API responses captured to serve as further example network service communications, is provided below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"280pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"HTTP\/1.1 200 OK",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Accept-Ranges: bytes",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Type: application\/xml",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 20:16:01 GMT",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Server: Noelios-Restlet-Engine\/1.1.m4",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Vary: Accept-Charset, Accept-Encoding, Accept-Language, Accept",{}]},{"entry":[{},"X-Mashery-Responder: proxylb-p-us-east-1d-14.mashery.com",{}]},{"entry":[{},"X-Powered-By: Servlet 2.4; JBoss-4.0.4.GA (build: CVSTag=JBoss_4_0_4_GA date=",{}]},{"entry":[{},"200605151000)\/Tomcat-5.5",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: 8172",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Connection: keep-alive",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d standalone=\u201cyes\u201d?>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><longitude>-117.2588<\/longitude>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<latitude>32.84334<\/latitude>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<category>Activities<\/category>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<dma>San Diego<\/dma>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<activeAdvantage>true<\/activeAdvantage>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<seoUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/running\/la-jolla-ca\/la-jolla-half-marathon-",{}]},{"entry":[{},"2010<\/seoUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<assetID>3A1B52E7-9D67-42F2-9BB8-F4C624A0D280<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>1733302<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=1733302",{}]},{"entry":[{},"&amp;amp;assetId=3A1B52E7-9D67-42F2-9BB8-F4C624A0D280<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<mediaTypes><mediaType>Event<\/mediaType>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<mediaType>Event\\5K<\/mediaType>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<mediaType>Event\\Half Marathon<\/mediaType><\/mediaTypes>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventContactEmail><\/eventContactEmail>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventContactPhone><\/eventContactPhone>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2010-04-25T07:30:00-07:00<\/eventDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventLocation>Del Mar to La Jolla<\/eventLocation>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventAddress>Starts at the Del Mar Fairgrounds - Finishes at La Jolla",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Cove<\/eventAddress>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCity>La Jolla<\/eventCity>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventState>California<\/eventState>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventZip>92037<\/eventZip>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCountry>USA<\/eventCountry>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<usatSanctioned>false<\/usatSanctioned>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<regOnline>true<\/regOnline>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCloseDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/eventCloseDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventFees>Half Marathon $55.00 until 2\/5 and $65 after&amp;lt;br&amp;gt;5K (Run &amp;amp;",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Stride) $25.00<\/eventFees>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<currencyCode>USD<\/currencyCode>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventTypeID>7<\/eventTypeID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventType>Event, Race<\/eventType>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<hasEventResults>true<\/hasEventResults>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<hasMetaResults>true<\/hasMetaResults>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<showMap>true<\/showMap>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventContactEmail><\/eventContactEmail>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventContactPhone><\/eventContactPhone>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<displayCloseDate>true<\/displayCloseDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<excludedFromEmailing>true<\/excludedFromEmailing>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<metaEventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/metaEventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<metaEventID>1065<\/metaEventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<regFunnel>regcenter_6<\/regFunnel>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<isValid>true<\/isValid>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<displayRegistration>true<\/displayRegistration>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<metaEvents>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><assetID>83F94ED0-2564-4201-BF83-C7E339559088<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>1855672<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=1855672",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon 2011<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2011-04-17T07:30:00-07:00<\/eventDate><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><assetID>F7A3875B-43BC-440E-B466-E5FC0D22EF93<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>1573877<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=1573877",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2009-04-26T07:30:00-07:00<\/eventDate><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><assetID>A6AD55E7-D10F-42D7-BFBF-C2F923785D89<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>1440796<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=1440796",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2008-04-27T07:30:00-07:00<\/eventDate><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><eventID>1317339<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=1317339",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2007-04-22T07:30:00-07:00<\/eventDate><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><eventID>1260777<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=1260777",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2006-04-23T07:30:00-07:00<\/eventDate><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><eventID>1145662<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=1145662",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2005-04-24T07:30:00-07:00<\/eventDate><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><eventID>1091319<\/eventID><eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Event_Details.htm?event_id=1091319<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2004-04-25T00:00:00-07:00<\/eventDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventTime>All events start at 7:30am<\/eventTime><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><assetID>221CA4B5-0E93-4838-82B1-C179F017DA05<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>1024643<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=1024643",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2003-04-27T07:30:00-07:00<\/eventDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventTime>All events start at 7:30am<\/eventTime><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><assetID>92D360E2-4E47-4880-A74B-7DB47695F932<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>970413<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=970413",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2002-04-28T00:00:00-07:00<\/eventDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventTime>All events start at 7:30am<\/eventTime><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><assetID>F1DBDA8B-001D-4053-87AD-BD6E12FC5DE8<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>954661<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=954661",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2001-04-29T00:00:00-07:00<\/eventDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventTime>7:30 AM<\/eventTime><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><assetID>4502518F-0AFB-427F-9B1F-0E642BB7736E<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>142410<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=142410",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>18th Annual La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>2000-04-30T00:00:00-07:00<\/eventDate><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><assetID>469BFB47-343C-4EFD-B931-2CAABAED9C1A<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>144<\/eventID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetailsPageUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/page\/Event_Details.htm?event_id=144<\/",{}]},{"entry":[{},"eventDetailsPageUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/eventName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDate>1998-04-26T00:00:00-07:00<\/eventDate><\/event>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/metaEvents>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<channels><channel><channelName>Running<\/channelName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<primaryChannel>true<\/primaryChannel><\/channel><\/channels>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventDetails\/><eventDonationLinks\/><eventSanctions\/>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCategories>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCategory><categoryID>1190363<\/categoryID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryGroupCount>0<\/categoryGroupCount>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/categoryName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryType>1<\/categoryType>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryOrder>1<\/categoryOrder>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<numRegistered>6595<\/numRegistered>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<maxRegistrations>6596<\/maxRegistrations>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<percentFull>99.98483929654336<\/percentFull>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<displayDate>2009-04-26T08:00:00-07:00<\/displayDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<closeDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/closeDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<actualCloseDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/actualCloseDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<isExpired>true<\/isExpired>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChanges><priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<price>55.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChange>65.0<\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-02-05T23:59:00-08:00<\/priceUntilDate><\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChange><price>65.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/priceUntilDate><\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChanges><\/eventCategory>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCategory><categoryID>1190364<\/categoryID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryGroupCount>0<\/categoryGroupCount>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryName>La Jolla Shores 5k<\/categoryName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryType>1<\/categoryType>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryOrder>2<\/categoryOrder>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<numRegistered>1108<\/numRegistered>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<maxRegistrations>1800<\/maxRegistrations>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<percentFull>61.55555555555555<\/percentFull>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<displayDate>2009-04-26T08:00:00-07:00<\/displayDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<closeDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/closeDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<actualCloseDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/actualCloseDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<isExpired>true<\/isExpired>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChanges><priceChange><price>25.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChange>30.0<\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-02-05T23:59:00-08:00<\/priceUntilDate><\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChange><price>30.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/priceUntilDate><\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChanges><\/eventCategory>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCategory><categoryID>1190365<\/categoryID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryGroupCount>0<\/categoryGroupCount>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryName>Major Sponsor (Password Required)<\/categoryName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryType>1<\/categoryType>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryOrder>4<\/categoryOrder>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<numRegistered>3<\/numRegistered>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<maxRegistrations>25<\/maxRegistrations>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<percentFull>12.0<\/percentFull>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<displayDate>2009-04-22T10:08:06.523-07:00<\/displayDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<closeDate>2010-02-10T23:59:00-08:00<\/closeDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<actualCloseDate>2010-02-10T23:59:00-08:00<\/actualCloseDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<isExpired>true<\/isExpired>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChanges><priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<price>0.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-02-10T23:59:00-08:00<\/priceUntilDate><\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChanges><\/eventCategory>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/eventCategories>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventUrl>http:\/\/www.lajollahalfmarathon.com<\/eventUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<registrationSearchUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/search_reg.cfm?event_id=1733302&amp;amp;",{}]},{"entry":[{},"sr_id=25508<\/registrationSearchUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<resultsUrl>http:\/\/results.active.com\/pages\/page.jsp?pubID=3&amp;amp;eventID=1733302<\/",{}]},{"entry":[{},"resultsUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventContactUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/event_contact.cfm?event_id=1733302<\/event",{}]},{"entry":[{},"ContactUrl><\/event>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Network service communications may be detected by packet sniffer . Packet sniffer  may be configured within network layer  of operating system , as shown, or packet sniffer  may be configured at any other location within mobile device  from which packet sniffer  can analyze network traffic to detect network service communications.","In some embodiments, packet sniffer  may be configured to distinguish between network service communications  and  and other communication types, such as voice communications transmitted when mobile device  is used as a telephone. It will be appreciated that packet sniffer  may use any of a variety of techniques to detect network service communications  and . In some embodiments, packet sniffer  may analyze communications to detect whether communications include properties that are unique to, or are typical of, network service communications  and . Communications having properties that are unique to, or are typical of, network service communications may be copied and forwarded to parser . For example, in some embodiments, packet sniffer  may be configured to inspect network traffic for the presence of one or more of: http post and\/or get calls with command and option fields, API key fields, API destination information, XML formatted data, and\/or JSON formatted data. Packet sniffer  may be configured to treat communications having such properties as network service communications by forwarding copies, such as copies  and , to parser .","Parser , classifier  and context database  may be configured in personal assistant , as illustrated in , or elsewhere in mobile device , e.g., in operating system . Parser  and classifier  may be configured with varying levels of power and corresponding complexity, ranging from relatively simple embodiments to more powerful and complex embodiments. Parser  and classifier  may also be combined in some embodiments.","Parser  may generally be configured to operate locally at mobile device , and\/or to outsource some or all of its tasks to a parsing service that may be available via network . Local parser operations are described below. Embodiments configured to access parsing services are described in connection with , devices implementing parsing services are described in connection with , and methods for providing parsing services are described in connection with . In general, parser  may include similar features to parsing services described in connection with , , and , and vice-versa. Embodiments may deploy parser functions locally at mobile device  or remotely in a parsing service according to design selections made for particular implementations.","Parser  may be configured to modify network service communication data from a received copy, such as copy  or copy , for storage in context database . Parser  may be configured to remove aspects of network service communication data, group aspects of network service communication data, and\/or convert aspects of network service communication data as described herein. While parser  is illustrated as a single component in , it will be appreciated that parser  may include multiple components. For example, in some embodiments, parser  may comprise an XML parser, a JSON parser, and\/or parsers for other types of network service communications as appropriate.","In embodiments in which parser  removes aspects of network service communication data, parser  may for example identify aspects of network service communication data that may include valuable content for context database , and may remove other aspects of network service communication data. For example, with regard to the below example section of a network service communication:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"HTTP\/1.1 200 OK",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Accept-Ranges: bytes",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Type: application\/xml",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 20:16:01 GMT",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Server: Noelios-Restlet-Engine\/1.1.m4",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Vary: Accept-Charset, Accept-Encoding, Accept-Language, Accept",{}]},{"entry":[{},"X-Mashery-Responder: proxylb-p-us-east-1d-14 .mashery.com",{}]},{"entry":[{},"X-Powered-By: Servlet 2.4; JBoss-4.0.4.GA (build: CVSTag=",{}]},{"entry":[{},"JBoss_4_0_4_GA date=",{}]},{"entry":[{},"200605151000)\/Tomcat-5.5",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Content-Length: 8172",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Connection: keep-alive",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cUTF-8\u201d standalone=\u201cyes\u201d?>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<event><longitude>-117.2588<\/longitude>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<latitude>32.84334<\/latitude>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<category>Activities<\/category>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<dma>San Diego<\/dma>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<activeAdvantage>true<\/activeAdvantage>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<seoUrl>http:\/\/www.active.com\/running\/la-jolla-ca\/la-jolla-",{}]},{"entry":[{},"half-marathon-2010<\/seoUrl>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<assetID>3A1B52E7-9D67-42F2-9BB8-F4C624A0D280<\/assetID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventID>1733302<\/eventID>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Parser  may be configured to remove header information, strings of unrecognized letters numbers and letters, and certain XML data designated as typically of little context value, to produce a parsed output such as the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"event",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"longitude [\u2212117.2588]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"latitude [32.84334]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"category [activities]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"dma [San Diego]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"activeAdvantage [true]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"seoUrl [http:\/\/www.active.com\/running\/",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"la-jolla-ca\/la-jolla-half-marathon-2010]"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Parsing techniques in particular implementations may retain or discard virtually any data from network service communications, as will be appreciated. In some embodiments parser  may be configured to identify and remove aspects of network service communication data that are unlikely to include valuable content for context database , and to retain other aspects of network service communication data. Parser  may be configured to store parsed data in context database  and\/or to supply parsed data to classifier  for further processing.","In embodiments in which parser  groups aspects of network service communication data, parser  may for example identify repeating patterns of data and\/or different logical segments of network service communication data, and parser  may establish multiple groups of data to be stored in context database . For example, with regard to the below example section of a network service communication:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"<eventCategories>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCategory><categoryID>1190363<\/categoryID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryGroupCount>0<\/categoryGroupCount>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryName>La Jolla Half Marathon<\/categoryName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryType>1<\/categoryType>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryOrder>1 <\/categoryOrder>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<numRegistered>6595<\/numRegistered>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<maxRegistrations>6596<\/maxRegistrations>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<percentFull>99.98483929654336<\/percentFull>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<displayDate>2009-04-26T08:00:00-07:00<\/displayDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<closeDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/closeDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<actualCloseDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/actualCloseDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<isExpired>true<\/isExpired>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChanges><priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<price>55.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChange>65.0<\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-02-05T23:59:00-08:00<\/priceUntilDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChange><price>65.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/priceUntilDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChanges><\/eventCategory>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<eventCategory><categoryID>1190364<\/categoryID>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryGroupCount>0<\/categoryGroupCount>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryName>La Jolla Shores 5k<\/categoryName>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryType>1<\/categoryType>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<categoryOrder>2<\/categoryOrder>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<numRegistered>1108<\/numRegistered>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<maxRegistrations>1800<\/maxRegistrations>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<percentFull>61.55555555555555<\/percentFull>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<displayDate>2009-04-26T08:00:00-07:00<\/displayDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<closeDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/closeDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<actualCloseDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/actualCloseDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<isExpired>true<\/isExpired>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChanges><priceChange><price>25.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChange>30.0<\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-02-05T23:59:00-08:00<\/priceUntilDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceChange><price>30.0<\/price>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<priceUntilDate>2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00<\/priceUntilDate>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChange>",{}]},{"entry":[{},"<\/priceChanges><\/eventCategory>"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Parser  may be configured to identify repetition of multiple <eventCategory> sections, as well as to remove data as described above, to produce a parsed output such as the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"eventCategories",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"GROUP 1",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"eventCategory categoryID [1190363]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"categoryGroupCount [0]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"categoryName [La Jolla Half Marathon]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"categoryType [1]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"categoryOrder [1]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"numRegistered [6595]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"maxRegistrations [6596]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"percentFull [99.98483929654336]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"displayDate [2009-04-26T08:00:00-07:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"closeDate [2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"actualCloseDate [2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"isExpired trueprice [55.0]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceChange [65.0]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceUntilDate [2010-02-05T23:59:00-08:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceChange price [65.0]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceUntilDate [2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"GROUP 2",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"eventCategory categoryID [1190364]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"categoryGroupCount [0]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"categoryName [La Jolla Shores 5k]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"categoryType [1]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"categoryOrder [2]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"numRegistered [1108]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"maxRegistrations [1800]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"percentFull [61.55555555555555]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"displayDate [2009-04-26T08:00:00-07:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"closeDate [2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"actualCloseDate [2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"isExpired [true]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceChanges priceChange price [25.0]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceChange [30.0]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceUntilDate [2010-02-05T23:59:00-08:00]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceChange price [30.0]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"priceUntilDate [2010-04-10T23:59:00-07:00]"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Parsing techniques in particular implementations may group data from network service communications according to virtually any grouping rules, as will be appreciated. As noted above, parser  may be configured to store parsed data in context database  and\/or to supply parsed data to classifier  for further processing.","In embodiments in which parser  converts aspects of network service communication data, parser  may be configured to use service translation information to convert data. For example, parser  may access a network service library that contains service translation information for multiple network services, such as multiple network APIs, to retrieve service translation for a network service\/network API identified in a received copy of a network service communication. For example, the above example API call lists a host as \u201capi.amp.active.com\u201d. This or any other information as appropriate may be used to look up a network service, such as a network API, in a network service library. Service translation information may provide, e.g., a list of typical terms used in connection with the network service, and corresponding translation outputs and\/or handling instructions. For example, service translation information for api.amp.active.com may provide:\n\n","Parser  may be configured to use service translation information such as the above to convert data from a network service communication to produce converted data, and to include the converted data in output parsed personal assistant data. For example, parser  may convert the data of GROUP 1 and GROUP 2, above, using the above service translation information, to generate converted data and to include the converted data in parsed personal assistant data, to thereby produce the below parsed personal assistant data including converted data:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0079"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"GROUP 1",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"race and run and event [La Jolla Half Marathon]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"event date [2009-04-26]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"GROUP 2",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"race and run and event [La Jolla Shores 5k]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"event date [2009-04-26]"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Parsing techniques in particular implementations may use service translation data that is configured according to any convention and may apply service translation data to convert data from network service communications according any of a wide variety of techniques as may be developed for particular implementations. As noted above, parser  may be configured to store parsed data, including converted data, in context database  and\/or to supply parsed data to classifier  for further processing.","Furthermore, with regard to lookup of service translation data, parsing techniques in particular implementations may look up service translation information in a network service library using any information or lookup techniques, as will be appreciated. In some embodiments, personal assistant  may be configured to maintain a network service library including service translation information for multiple network services, for use in identifying service translation information. Personal assistant  may for example periodically download network service library information from a central repository made available via network . Parser  may be configured to call the network service library maintained by personal assistant  to retrieve service translation information. Alternatively, parser  may be configured to connect to a network service, which may be available via network , to retrieve service translation information for a network service corresponding to a received copy of a network service communication.","Classifier  may be configured to classify parser  outputs in context database . In some embodiments, classifier  may adjust relative weights of relationships between the parsed personal assistant data stored in the personal assistant context database. For example, the weights of relationships between parsed personal assistant data extracted from network service communications may be relative to other relationships in context database . Classifier  may for example classify parsed personal assistant data such as the following:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0083"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},"GROUP 1",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"race and run and event [La Jolla Half Marathon]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"event date [2009-04-26]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"GROUP 2",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"race and run and event [La Jolla Shores 5k]",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"event date [2009-04-26]"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"In some example embodiments, classifier  may classify the above parsed personal assistant data by increasing relationship weights between each of the terms, regardless of group, in the parsed personal assistant data by one (1). In some embodiments, classifier  may furthermore increase relationship weights between terms within each group data by an additional one (1). In some embodiments, classifier  may furthermore increase relationship weights between terms on each line of the above parsed personal assistant data by an additional one (1). Thus for example a relationship weight between each of the terms race, run, and event and \u201cLa Jolla Half Marathon\u201d may be increased by 1 because these terms are in the parsed personal assistant data. The relationship weights may be further increased by 1 because the terms are both in group 1. The relationship weights may be further increased by 1 because the terms are both in the first line of group 1. In such an example, the total increase in relationship weight applied by classifier  between each of the terms race, run, and event and \u201cLa Jolla Half Marathon\u201d in context database  may therefore be three 3. Meanwhile, relationship weights between terms not included in the above parsed personal assistant data, such as between the terms race, run, and event and some other term such as \u201cWashington, D.C.\u201d, or between \u201cWashington, D.C.\u201d and some other term such as \u201crestaurant\u201d, may remain unaffected. As a result, weights of relationships between terms in parsed personal assistant data are increased relative to weights of relationships between other data in context database.","It will be appreciated that the above example classification is one of many approaches that may be applied to classify data. Any classification techniques that may be currently available or which may be developed in the future may be applied in particular implementations of this disclosure. In some embodiments, classifier  may be configured to adjust relationship weights in a time dependent manner, e.g., based on age of data, to allow decay of relationship weights over time. For example, classifier  may decrease relationship weights between the terms race, run, and event and \u201cLa Jolla Half Marathon\u201d in context database  in the absence of further adjustment of such weights, or in the absence of modification or refresh of data in context database , in response to the elapse of one or more predetermined periods of time.","In some embodiments, classifier  and context database , or portions thereof, and\/or portions of user interaction engine  may be cloud-based. For example, personal assistant  may be configured to access a personal assistant service via network  to maintain context database  and\/or to configure personal assistant user interactions.","It will be appreciated that the personal assistant context building technologies described herein may be implemented in any computing devices, including but not limited to mobile devices. The mobile device context is used in  and throughout this disclosure as an example, however those of skill in the art will appreciate that the technologies described herein may be readily adapted for incorporation in other devices, such as personal computers including desktops and laptops, onboard vehicle computers, or other computing devices equipped with personal assistants. Furthermore, it will be appreciated that some embodiments may be distributed across multiple computing devices, e.g., by collecting context information at one or more first devices, and applying the context information in personal assistant context databases accessed from any of the first devices and\/or from one or more second devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","100","180","100","120","123","124","123","121","122"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["211","200","120","124","120","212","123","124","120","213","180","180","212","120","214","214","212","180","200","214","212"]},"Personal assistant  may be configured to receive input , also referred to herein as an automated personal assistant user input. Input  may for example be forwarded to personal assistant  by a mobile device operating system, or user  may activate personal assistant  to give personal assistant  control of mobile device , along with any inputs received by mobile device , prior to user  supplying input  to mobile device .","In some embodiments, personal assistant  may supply input  to user interaction engine  to configure an appropriate user interaction operation  responsive to input . User interaction engine  may configure and perform user interaction operation  alongside any number of additional operations. For example, in response to a voice command such as \u201ccall Bob\u201d, user interaction engine  may look up Bob's number in an address book, display a telephone interface with Bob's number, play a voice output saying \u201ccalling Bob\u201d, and initiate a telephone call to Bob.","In response to a voice command such as \u201cWhere is the starting line for the race?\u201d user interaction engine  may be configured to determine context information in connection with configuring user interaction operation . User interaction engine  may determine, using received user input  and context database , strong weighted relationships between received user input  and other personal assistant data in the personal assistant context database . For example, user interaction engine  may determine a strong weighted relationship exists between \u201crace\u201d and \u201cLa Jolla half-marathon\u201d.","After context information is determined, user interaction engine  may be adapted to use determined context information to configure user interaction operation . For example, in some embodiments, user interaction engine  may perform a retrieve interaction data operation , such as an internet search, for \u201clocation starting line La Jolla half marathon\u201d. User interaction engine  may configure user interaction operation  for example as a search result display, a map interface display, or a voice output, comprising information gathered in retrieve interaction data operation .","In another example, user interaction engine  may determine, using received user input  and context database , strong weighted relationships between received user input  and both of \u201cLa Jolla half-marathon\u201d and \u201cLa Jolla Shores 5 k\u201d. User interaction engine  may configure user interaction operation  as a question to user , such as \u201cDo you want the La Jolla half-marathon, or the La Jolla Shores 5 k?\u201d It will be appreciated that many different types of user interaction operations may be configured, any of which may usefully employ data from context database  which data may be configured with network service communication information as described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","310","100","120","120","301","122","123","124"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["171","301","310","310","171","311","311","310","301","301","122","122","301","122","123","122","123","124","122","124","123"]},"In , parser  may be configured to forward copies of network service communications, such as copy , to parsing service . Parsing service  may comprise a network service available via a network such as network . Parsing service  may perform some or all parsing operations, such as those described herein in connection with parser , to produce parsed personal assistant data . Parsing service  may return parsed personal assistant data  to parser . Parser  may be configured to receive parsed personal assistant data . In response to receiving parsed personal assistant data , parser  may be configured to store parsed personal assistant data  in context database  and activate classifier  for classification of parsed personal assistant data  within context database , or otherwise parser  may be configured to provide parsed personal assistant data  to classifier  for further processing and storage in context database .","In some embodiments, parser  may be configured forward some, but not all, copies of network service communications to parsing service . Parser  may for example select network service communications corresponding to select network APIs for forwarding to parsing service . Parser  may send different types of network service communications to different parsing services, or parser  may handle some network service communications locally, while forwarding others to parsing services.","In some embodiments, operations described above in connection with parser  forwarding copy  and receiving parsed personal assistant data  may be performed by personal assistant  or an component thereof, or by another process at mobile device , as will be appreciated.","In some embodiments, parser  may be configured to perform some degree of pre-processing of copy  prior to sending copy  to parsing service . For example, parser  may perform some of the parsing operations described above in connection with parser , and then forward pre-processed data to parsing service . In such embodiments, copy  sent to parsing service  may be other than a true or exact copy of a network service communication, as will be appreciated. Similarly, parser  may be configured to perform some degree of post-processing on parsed personal assistant data  received from parsing service .","In some embodiments, parsing service  may be configured to perform parsing as well as classification functions. For example, parsing service  may parse copy  to produce parsed personal assistant data , and parsing service  may also classify parsed personal assistant data  by assigning relationship weights to data included in parsed personal assistant data . Assigned relationship weights may for example be used by parser  to adjust relationship weights of parsed personal assistant data  when storing parsed personal assistant data  in context database . In such embodiments, classifier  may be eliminated or may have reduced classification responsibility in connection with parsed personal assistant data .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["401","400","410","420","430","410","420"]},"Depending on the desired configuration, processor  may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor (\u03bcP), a microcontroller (\u03bcC), a digital signal processor (DSP), or any combination thereof. Processor  may include one or more levels of caching, such as a level one cache  and a level two cache , a processor core , and registers . The processor core  may include an arithmetic logic unit (ALU), a floating point unit (FPU), a digital signal processing core (DSP Core), or any combination thereof. A memory controller  may also be used with the processor , or in some implementations the memory controller  may be an internal part of the processor .","Depending on the desired configuration, the system memory  may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory (such as RAM), non-volatile memory (such as ROM, flash memory, etc.), or any combination thereof. System memory  typically includes an operating system , one or more applications , and program data . In some embodiments, operating system  may comprise a virtual machine that is managed by a Virtual Machine Manager (VMM). Operating system  may comprise a packet sniffer , as described in connection with . In some embodiments, operating system  may be configured to load packet sniffer  among communication devices , or to otherwise configure packet sniffer  to interact with communication devices . In some embodiments, operating system  may also comprise personal assistant module(s) .","Applications  may include, for example, personal assistant module(s) , browser module(s) , App module(s) , and\/or widget module(s) . Program data  may include context database  and\/or data  that may be used by packet sniffer , personal assistant module(s) , browser module(s) , App module(s) , and\/or widget module(s) , respectively.","Computing device  may have additional features or functionality, and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration  and any required devices and interfaces. For example, a bus\/interface controller  may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration  and one or more data storage devices  via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices  may be removable storage devices , non-removable storage devices , or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non-removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard-disk drives (HDD), optical disc drives such as compact disc (CD) drives or digital versatile disc (DVD) drives, solid state drives (SSD), and tape drives, to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information, such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data.","Level 1 cache , level 2 cache , system memory , removable storage , and non-removable storage devices  are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile discs (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .","Computing device  may also include an interface bus  for facilitating communication from various interface devices (e.g., output interfaces, peripheral interfaces, and communication interfaces) to the basic configuration  via the bus\/interface controller . Example output devices  include a graphics processing unit  and an audio processing unit , which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A\/V ports . Example peripheral interfaces  may include a serial interface controller  or a parallel interface controller , which may be configured to communicate through either wired or wireless connections with external devices such as input devices (e.g., keyboard, mouse, pen, voice input device, touch input device, etc.) or other peripheral devices (e.g., printer, scanner, etc.) via one or more I\/O ports . Other conventional I\/O devices may be connected as well such as a mouse, keyboard, and so forth. An example communications device  may include a network controller , which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices  over a network communication via one or more communication ports . In some embodiments, communications device  may also be configured to include packet sniffer , or otherwise to interoperate with packet sniffer in a network layer of operating system  as described herein.","The computer storage media may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal, such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and include any information delivery media. A \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency (RF), infrared (IR), and other wireless media.","Computing device  may be implemented as a smart phone device or a tablet computing device. Computing device  may also be implemented as a personal or business use computer including both laptop computer and non-laptop computer configurations. Computing device  may also be implemented as a computing device in a vehicle, a home or building security system, or any other device in which an intelligent personal assistant  may be deployed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0111"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["510","514","520","523","400","550"]},"In , blocks - and - are illustrated as including blocks being performed sequentially, e.g., with blocks - and - being performed sequentially. It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re-arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated, divided into additional blocks, and\/or combined with other blocks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["400","510","400","510","510","510","511","514"]},"At a \u201cDetect Network Service Communication\u201d block , computing device  may detect network service communications, e.g., by detecting transmissions of network service requests and\/or network service responses between apps and\/or other programs at computing device  and a network. Block  may for example include detecting network traffic, such as API calls and responses, comprising http post and get calls with command and option fields, API key fields, API destinations, and\/or any other property that distinguishes the types of network service communications that are desired for use in building personal assistant context information. Block  may be followed by block .","At an \u201cObtain Parsed Personal Assistant Data From Network Service Communication\u201d block , computing device  may obtain parsed personal assistant data extracted from a network service communication detected pursuant to block . Several configuration options for block  are disclosed herein.","In some embodiments, block  may comprise parsing a network service communication locally by the mobile device. In some embodiments, block  may comprise forwarding by the mobile device a copy of a network service communication to a remote parsing service, and receiving parsed personal assistant data returned from the remote parsing service. In some embodiments, a combination of these approaches may be implemented, e.g., by performing some degree of local parsing, and requesting a parsing service to perform some degree of additional parsing.","Furthermore, block  may employ varying degrees of parsing sophistication. In relatively simple embodiments, block  may employ basic parsing rules to remove data from network service communications that may be easily identified as unnecessary or undesirable as context information. In more sophisticated embodiments, additional parsing rules may be used for example to group data from network service communications and\/or convert data to increase its usefulness as context information. Embodiments of block  that convert network service communication data are described further in connection with . Block  may be followed by block .","At a \u201cStore Parsed Personal Assistant Data in Personal Assistant Context Database\u201d block , computing device  may store at least a portion of parsed personal assistant data in a personal assistant context database. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that there is flexibility in decisions of when to store data in the personal assistant context database. In some embodiments, parsed personal assistant data obtained at block  may be stored in the personal assistant context database, and the stored data may be subsequently adjusted pursuant to block , as illustrated in . In some embodiments, parsed personal assistant data obtained at block  may be temporarily stored in a memory location other than the personal assistant context database for manipulation pursuant to block , and block  may be performed after block . Also, in embodiments in which the personal assistant context database is implemented as a cloud-based context database, block  may be configured to access a network service, e.g., by sending parsed personal assistant data to the network service for inclusion in the cloud-based context database. Block  may be followed by block .","At an \u201cAdjust Relationship Weights in Personal Assistant Context Database\u201d block , computing device  may adjust relative weights of relationships between the parsed personal assistant data stored in the personal assistant context database. Block  may for example strengthen weights of relationships between the parsed personal assistant data extracted from the network service communication detected at block , relative to other relationships between personal assistant data in the personal assistant context database. In some embodiments, block  may be performed by computing device  interacting with a network server implementing a cloud-based context database.","At a \u201cUser Interaction\u201d block , computing device  may perform a user interaction stage of methods according to . Computing device  may be configured to use a personal assistant context database that is configured according to the data collection\/database configuration stage implemented at block  to configure personal assistant user interaction operations at block . In some embodiments, block  may be carried out by a personal assistant, e.g., by a user interaction engine and a personal assistant context database in a personal assistant as described herein. In some embodiments, block  may include network accesses, e.g., by the user interaction engine to access a cloud-based context database and\/or to retrieve interaction data as described herein. Block  may be performed before, after, or concurrently with block . Block  may include blocks -.","In a \u201cReceive User Input\u201d block , computing device  may receive an automated personal assistant user input. Example inputs may include, for example, voice or other audio inputs received via a microphone, text inputs received via a keyboard, and\/or photo or video inputs received via a camera. Received inputs may comprise, or may be interpreted as, commands to the personal assistant. For example, in some embodiments, received inputs may comprise voice commands that engage the personal assistant. In some embodiments, users may select a button or other control to engage the personal assistant in advance of providing input. Block  may be followed by block .","At a \u201cDetermine Context\u201d block , computing device  may determine context information from the personal assistant context database. For example, computing device  may determine strong weighted relationships, in the personal assistant context database, between the user input received at block  and other personal assistant data in the personal assistant context database. Personal assistant data items having strong weighted relationships with the received input may be used to ascertain likely meaning of the user input received at block , or to supplement the user input, e.g., in the configuration of search terms for an internet search, or for example to configure a voice response in which the user is requested to verify or select between meanings of the user input. In some embodiments, computing device  may implement block  at least in part by sending user input received at block  to a cloud-based context database as described herein. Block  may be followed by block .","At a \u201cConfigure User Interaction Operation\u201d block , computing device  may configure an automated personal assistant user interaction operation using personal assistant data in the personal assistant context database having the strong weighted relationships with the user input, as determined at block . In some embodiments, computing device  may configure the automated personal assistant user interaction operation using data received from a cloud-based context database, e.g., in response to a call to the cloud-based context database made at block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0124"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["512","611","613","400","650"]},"In , blocks  and - are illustrated as including blocks being performed sequentially, e.g., with blocks - being performed sequentially. It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re-arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated, divided into additional blocks, and\/or combined with other blocks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0115","num":"0126"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["400","512","400","400","611","613","512","611","613"]},"At an \u201cIdentify Service Translation Information\u201d block , computing device  may identify service translation information (such as API translation information) for a network service (such as a network API) corresponding to a network service communication (such as an API call or response) detected for example at block  in . Computing device  may use information contained in the network service communication to lookup a corresponding network service, and service translation information for the corresponding network service, in a network service library. Block  may access the network service library locally at device , when available, or block  may access the network service library via a network. Block  may be followed by block .","At a \u201cConvert Network Service Communication Data Using Identified Service Translation Information\u201d block , computing device  may convert data from the network service communication detected at block  in , using the service translation information identified at block . Block  may generally identify terms within identified service translation information that have a corresponding translation output or rule. Block  may look up each identified term within network service communication data, and block  may apply the translation outputs and rules from the identified service translation information to generate converted data. Block  may be followed by block .","At an \u201cInclude Converted Data in Parsed Personal Assistant Data\u201d block , computing device  may include converted data generated at block  in parsed personal assistant data for the network service communication detected at block  in . In some embodiments, blocks  and  may be combined for example by writing the converted data directly into parsed personal assistant data at block .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0119","num":"0130"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["701","700","710","720","730","710","720","710","710","711","712","713","714","713","715","710","715","710"]},"Depending on the desired configuration, the system memory  may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory (such as RAM), non-volatile memory (such as ROM, flash memory, etc.), or any combination thereof. System memory  typically includes either a single operating system (not illustrated) or a Virtual Machine Manager (VMM)  that can manage operations of multiple Virtual Machines (VMs), such as VM . Each VM may comprise different applications and program data. For example, VM  may comprise a parsing service , and program data . Program data  may include network service library  and\/or data  or  that may be used by parsing service .","Devices according to  may generally comprise additional elements described above in connection with , which are not included in  to avoid redundancy of description. Computing device  may be implemented as a server in a data center or elsewhere, or as any computer with sufficient processing power, fault tolerance, and continuous availability to provide a reliable service to mobile devices such as mobile device  as illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["801","811","816","700","850","801","811","816","726"]},"In , blocks - are illustrated as being performed sequentially, e.g., with block  being performed first and block  being performed last, while block  may be performed concurrently with any of blocks -. It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re-arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that blocks - or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments, or block  may be performed sequentially among blocks -. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated, divided into additional blocks, and\/or combined with other blocks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0135"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 3","FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["700","310","700","310","100","121","811","812","816","801"]},"At a \u201cMaintain Network Service Library\u201d block , computing device  may maintain network service library , network service library  including service translation information for multiple network services. Block  may for example periodically check published network APIs for updates. Updates may be copied into network service library , and translation tables comprising service translation information may be updated automatically when possible. Service translation information may be updated or otherwise configured manually, that is, by a human administrator in some embodiments. Updating service translation information may generally comprise identifying meanings behind terms used for particular network services, and providing translations including terms that may be more useful as context information. For example, if an API is updated to use the abbreviation \u201cloc\u201d instead of \u201clocation\u201d, service translation information may be updated to convert \u201cloc\u201d into \u201clocation\u201d for that API. In some embodiments, updating service translation information may comprise including thesaurus-type information as translation terms. For example, when an API uses the term \u201clocation\u201d, translation terms may provide additional terms such as \u201cplace\u201d, \u201cdestination\u201d, \u201cwhere\u201d, etc., for use generated converted data outputs. Block  may be performed concurrently with any of blocks -.","At a \u201cReceive Copy of Network Service Communication\u201d block , computing device  may receive from a computing device, such as mobile device , a copy of a network service communication. The received copy may include a network service request made by the mobile device and\/or or a network service response received by the mobile device. In some embodiments, the received copy may also have been subject to some amount of pre-processing as described herein. Block  may be followed by block .","At a \u201cParse Network Service Communication\u201d block , computing device  may parse the copy of the network service communication received at block  to generate parsed personal assistant data. Computing device  may for example perform any of the parsing operations disclosed herein, e.g., the parsing operations described in connection with parser , such as removing data and grouping data, to produce parsed personal assistant data. Block  may be followed by block .","In some embodiments, parsing services provided by device  may parse data without performing any classification of the parsed person assistant data, and any classification may be performed for example at the mobile device upon return of parsed person assistant data to the mobile device. In some embodiments, parsing services provided by device  may perform some degree of classification of parsed personal assistant data prior to sending parsed person assistant data to a mobile device at block . Classification may be incorporated into block  or may be performed in a separate classification block as appropriate.","Classification at device  may generally comprise operations similar to those described herein in connection with classifier . In some embodiments, device  may not have access to context databases such as context database , and so classification at device  may be limited to parsed personal assistant data generated at device . Classification at device  may be configured to determine relative weights of relationships between the parsed personal assistant data, and to include the relative weights of relationships in the parsed personal assistant data. Classification information may then be merged into context databases along with the parsed personal assistant data that may be sent to mobile devices at block . For example, classification weights included in parsed personal assistant data at device  may be treated by mobile devices as \u201cdeltas\u201d or amounts by which relationship weights existing within context databases may be changed by mobile devices.","Blocks - are illustrated separately from block  to provide additional detail for the operations of blocks -. In some embodiments, blocks -, or portions thereof, may be included in block . At an \u201cIdentify Service Translation Information in Network Service Library\u201d block , computing device  may identify service translation information in network service library  for a network service corresponding to the copy of the network service communication received at block . In some embodiments, block  may comprise operations, by computing device , similar to operations disclosed in connection with block  in . Block  may be followed by block .","At a \u201cConvert Parsed Data Using Identified Service Translation Information\u201d block , computing device  may convert parsed personal assistant data generated at block  using the service translation information identified at block , to produce converted data. In some embodiments, block  may comprise operations, by computing device , similar to operations disclosed in connection with block  in . Block  may be followed by block .","At an \u201cInclude Converted Data in Parsed Personal Assistant Data\u201d block , computing device  may include the converted data produced at block  in the parsed personal assistant data generated at block . In some embodiments, block  may comprise operations, by computing device , similar to operations disclosed in connection with block  in . Block  may be followed by block .","At a \u201cSend Parsed Personal Assistant Data\u201d block , computing device  may send the parsed personal assistant data generated by blocks  and optionally including converted data included at block , to the mobile device from which the copy of a network service communication was received at block . In some embodiments, computing device  may send the parsed personal assistant data generated by blocks  and optionally including converted data included at block , to a cloud-based context database accessible by the mobile device. The cloud-based context database may be implemented at device  or at a separate network server.","There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems; the use of hardware or software is generally (but not always, in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software may become significant) a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and\/or systems and\/or other technologies described herein may be effected (e.g., hardware, software, and\/or firmware), and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and\/or systems and\/or other technologies are deployed. For example, if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount, the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and\/or firmware vehicle; if flexibility is paramount, the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation; or, yet again alternatively, the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware, software, and\/or firmware.","The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and\/or processes via the use of block diagrams, flowcharts, and\/or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams, flowcharts, and\/or examples contain one or more functions and\/or operations, it will be understood by those within the art that each function and\/or operation within such block diagrams, flowcharts, or examples may be implemented, individually and\/or collectively, by a wide range of hardware, software, firmware, or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment, several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), digital signal processors (DSPs), or other integrated formats. However, those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein, in whole or in part, may be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits, as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers (e.g., as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems), as one or more programs running on one or more processors (e.g., as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors), as firmware, or as virtually any combination thereof, and that designing the circuitry and\/or writing the code for the software and\/or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms, and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include, but are not limited to, the following: a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk, a hard disk drive, a Compact Disc (CD), a Digital Versatile Disc (DVD), a digital tape, a computer memory, etc.; and a transmission type medium such as a digital and\/or an analog communication medium (e.g., a fiber optic cable, a waveguide, a wired communications link, a wireless communication link, etc.).","Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and\/or processes in the fashion set forth herein, and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and\/or processes into data processing systems. That is, at least a portion of the devices and\/or processes described herein may be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing, a video display device, a memory such as volatile and non-volatile memory, processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors, computational entities such as operating systems, drivers, graphical user interfaces, and applications programs, one or more interaction devices, such as a touch pad or screen, and\/or control systems including feedback loops and control motors (e.g., feedback for sensing position and\/or velocity; control motors for moving and\/or adjusting components and\/or quantities). A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components, such as those typically found in data computing\/communication and\/or network computing\/communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within, or connected with, different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense, any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively \u201cassociated\u201d such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence, any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as \u201cassociated with\u201d each other such that the desired functionality is achieved, irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise, any two components so associated may also be viewed as being \u201coperably connected\u201d, or \u201coperably coupled\u201d, to each other to achieve the desired functionality, and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being \u201coperably couplable\u201d, to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically connectable and\/or physically interacting components and\/or wirelessly inter-actable and\/or wirelessly interacting components and\/or logically interacting and\/or logically inter-actable components.","With respect to the use of substantially any plural and\/or singular terms herein, those having skill in the art may translate from the plural to the singular and\/or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and\/or application. The various singular\/plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.","It will be understood by those within the art that, in general, terms used herein, and especially in the appended claims (e.g., bodies of the appended claims) are generally intended as \u201copen\u201d terms (e.g., the term \u201cincluding\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincluding but not limited to,\u201d the term \u201chaving\u201d should be interpreted as \u201chaving at least,\u201d the term \u201cincludes\u201d should be interpreted as \u201cincludes but is not limited to,\u201d etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended, such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim, and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example, as an aid to understanding, the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases \u201cat least one\u201d and \u201cone or more\u201d to introduce claim recitations. However, the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation, even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases \u201cone or more\u201d or \u201cat least one\u201d and indefinite articles such as \u201ca\u201d or \u201can\u201d (e.g., \u201ca\u201d and\/or \u201can\u201d should typically be interpreted to mean \u201cat least one\u201d or \u201cone or more\u201d); the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition, even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited, those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number (e.g., the bare recitation of \u201ctwo recitations,\u201d without other modifiers, typically means at least two recitations, or two or more recitations). Furthermore, in those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, and C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, and C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.). In those instances where a convention analogous to \u201cat least one of A, B, or C, etc.\u201d is used, in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., \u201ca system having at least one of A, B, or C\u201d would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and\/or A, B, and C together, etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and\/or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms, whether in the description, claims, or drawings, should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms, either of the terms, or both terms. For example, the phrase \u201cA or B\u201d will be understood to include the possibilities of \u201cA\u201d or \u201cB\u201d or \u201cA and B.\u201d","While certain example techniques have been described and shown herein using various methods, devices and systems, it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made, and equivalents may be substituted, without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore, it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed, but that such claimed subject matter also may include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing and other features of the present disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Understanding that these drawings depict only several embodiments in accordance with the disclosure and are, therefore, not to be considered limiting of its scope, the disclosure will be described with additional specificity and detail through use of the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
