---
title: Pre-charge tracking of global read lines in high speed SRAM
abstract: In embodiments of the invention, a memory circuit includes a static random access memory (SRAM), rows of M sense amplifiers, a global read precharge tracking control circuit controlling a precharge of global read lines, a sense amplifier output tracking circuit generating a reset sense amplifier signal for the sense amplifier control circuits, and a read delay circuit generating a trigger signal for the global read precharge tracking control circuit and the sense amplifier output tracking circuit and performing a fixed delay tracking of a read operation in a read cycle. A dummy global read line is coupled to the global read precharge tracking control circuit and returns from a half way to the top of the SRAM forming a tracking dummy global read line that determines a completion of the precharge of the global read lines before the sense amplifiers start discharging the global read lines in the read cycle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08879303&OS=08879303&RS=08879303
owner: LSI Corporation
number: 08879303
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130103
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["High speed static random access memory (SRAM) architectures typically use a sense amplifier and two global read lines to load data into an output latch in a global input output (GIO) Block. This requires two operations finished before the sense amplifier starts discharging one of the global read lines. The first operation is a precharging of the global read lines should get completed before a sense amplifier enable signal arrives. The second operation is the global read lines precharging operation should is finished to avoid contention on the global read lines before the sense amplifier starts discharging one of the global read lines. Across various pressure, voltage and temperatures (PVTs) and instance sizes, it is difficult to meet the above two margin conditions and failure to meet these margins results in functional failure of the SRAMs and huge dynamic power consumption.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Described embodiments provide a memory circuit that includes a static random access memory (SRAM) including N banks of memory cells, each bank having M columns, where M and N are positive integers, rows of M sense amplifiers, each row of the M sense amplifiers placed between two banks of the memory cells, each row of the M sense amplifiers coupled to a sense amplifier control circuit and a local input\/output circuit (LIO), each column of the M sense amplifiers corresponding to a bit of the memory cell, the bit having corresponding global read lines, a global read precharge tracking control circuit controlling a precharge of the global read lines using a track dummy global read line signal, a sense amplifier output tracking circuit generating a reset sense amplifier signal for the sense amplifier control circuits, and a read delay circuit generating a trigger signal for the global read precharge tracking control circuit and the sense amplifier output tracking circuit and performing a fixed delay tracking of a read operation in a read cycle. A dummy global read line is coupled to the global read precharge tracking control circuit and returns from a half way to the top of the SRAM forming a tracking dummy global read line that determines a completion of the precharge of the global read lines before the sense amplifiers start discharging the global read lines in the read cycle.","Embodiments of the invention relate to tracking a precharging operation of global read lines (GRDLs) in a SRAM including both horizontal tracking and vertical tracking. The described embodiments provide a configuration and method to detect precharge completion thus allowing margin free tracking across PVTs and instance ranges and thereby improving cycle time and dynamic power. The described embodiments provide following two margin conditions. One is a precharge of the GRDLs that is completed before a sense amplifier enable (SAen) signal arrives. The other one is the GRDLs precharge operation is finished to avoid contention on the GRDLs before a sense amplifier enable signal arrives. The described embodiments provide a margin free READ operation, thereby, improving performance and robustness of the SRAM and a cycle time and dynamic power of the SRAM.","The following detailed description utilizes a number of acronyms, which are generally well known in the art. While definitions are typically provided with the first instance of each acronym, for convenience, Table 1 provides a list of the acronyms and abbreviations used along with their respective definitions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"RDC","Read Delay Circuit"]},{"entry":[{},"SAOTC","Sense Amplifier to Output Tracking Circuit"]},{"entry":[{},"GRDPT_CTRL","Global Read Precharge Tracking Control"]},{"entry":[{},"GIO","Global Input-Output"]},{"entry":[{},"DGIO","Dummy Global Input-Output"]},{"entry":[{},"SACTRL","Sense Amplifier Control"]},{"entry":[{},"SAOEG","Sense Amplifier to Output Generator"]},{"entry":[{},"SAPRCH","Sense Amplifier Precharge"]},{"entry":[{},"SA","Sense Amplifier"]},{"entry":[{},"GRDL","Global Read Line"]},{"entry":[{},"SAen","Sense Amplifier Enable Signal"]},{"entry":[{},"SARST","Sense Amplifier Reset Signal"]},{"entry":[{},"RESET_SA","Reset Sense Amplifier Signal"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Hereinafter, embodiments of the invention are described with reference to the drawing figures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"As shown in , SRAM system  includes SRAM , sense amplifier control (SACTRL) circuits (), . . . N\/2, internal clock circuit (INT_CLK) , read delay circuit (RDC) , sense amplifier to output tracking circuit (SAOTC) , and global read precharge tracking control circuit (GRDPT_CTRL) . SRAM  includes banks (), (), . . . (N\u22121) and N, bits (), (), (M\u22121) and M, sense amplifier (SA) rows (), . . . , (N\/2), global inputs and outputs circuit (GIO) , inverter , and dummy global inputs and outputs circuit (DGIO) .","Banks (), (), . . . (N\u22121) and N each is an array of core-cells of SRAM . N banks of SRAM  each has M bits (), (), (M\u22121) and each bit has two global bitlines. The two global bitlines are GRDT and GRDC. For example, bit () has global read lines GRDT_ and GRDC_; . . . ; bit M has global read lines GRDT_M, GRDC_M.","SA rows (), . . . , (N\/2) each is placed between two banks. For example, SA row () is placed between bank () and bank (); SA row () is placed between bank () and bank () (not shown); SA row (N\/2) is placed between bank (N\u22121) and bank N. SA rows (), . . . , (N\/2) each has M sense amplifiers. For example, SA row () includes SA(), . . . ()M; SA row (N\/2) includes SA (N\/2), . . . N\/2). Each column of the array of the SAs corresponds to a column of bits in each bank of the core cells. Each column of the sense amplifiers is connected together and coupled to the corresponding GIO of the corresponding bit. For example, SA (N\/2)M is connected to SA ()M and then coupled to GIO M of bit M; . . . SA (N\/2) is connected to SA () and then coupled to GIO () of bit (). Thus, each SA is coupled to the corresponding GRDLs (i.e., GRDT and GRDC). SAs (), . . . ()M, . . . (N\/2), . . . (N\/2)M are implemented with any existing and prospective sense amplifier known in the art.","Each SA row has a sense amplifier control (SACTRL) circuit that controls the each SA row. For example, SACTRL_ () controls SA row (); SMPCTRL_(N\/2) (N\/2) controls SA row (N\/2). Each SACTRL circuit includes a sense amplifier precharge (SAPRCH) circuit that generates a sense amplifier reset signal (e.g., SARST_, . . . , SARST_(N\/2)) for the sense amplifiers in the each row. Each SACTRL circuit also includes a sense amplifier to output generator circuit (SAOEG) that generates a sense amplifier enable signal (e.g., SAen_, . . . , SAen_(N\/2)) for the M sense amplifiers in the each row. For example, SACTL_() includes SAPRCH  and SAORG ; SACTL (N\/2) include SAPRCH (N\/2) and SAOEG (N\/2).","GIO  includes GIO (), (), . . . (M\u22121) and M. Each GIO for the each bit of the N banks is coupled to the each column of the SA array for the each corresponding bit. For example, GIO () is coupled to SA (), . . . , (N\/2) for bit ; GIO () is coupled to SA (), . . . , (N\/2) for bit ; . . . ; GIO (M\u22121) is coupled to SENAMP ()(M\u22121), . . . , (N\/2)(M\u22121) for bit (M\u22121); GIO M is coupled to SENAMP ()M, . . . , (N\/2)M for bit M. A global read line precharge (GRDL_PRCH) signal generated from GRDPT_CTRL  is applied to GIO  to precharge the GRDLs. At a half way to the right of SRAM  the GRDL_PRCH signal propagates to DGIO  through inverter  forming a horizontal track global read line precharge (TRACK_GRDL_PRCH) signal. The TRACK_GRDL_PRCH signal generated from DGIO  then returns to GRDPT_CTRL . DGIO  includes DGIO (), . . . , (M\/) that has a half number of DGIO elements lees than that of GIO .","A dummy global read line (DGRDL) coupled to GRDPT_CTRL  mimics the GRDLs. A DGRDL signal returns at a half way to the top of SRAM  to GRDPT_CTRL  forming a vertical track dummy GRDL (TRACK_DUMMY_GRDL) signal.","INT_CLK  generates an internal clock (INT_CLK) signal for SRAM system . More specifically, as shown in , the INT_CLK is sent into RDC  at CLK1 node and SAOTC  at CLK2 node.","RDC  performs a fixed delay tracking of a READ operation in a READ cycle in SRAM system . RDC  has two inputs (e.g., A1 and CLK1 nodes) and one output put (e.g., Q1 node).  is an exemplary schematic view of a read delay circuit shown in . As shown, RDC  includes inverters , NOR gate , and inverter . Inverters  include an even number of inverters connected in series. Inverters  and inverter  are coupled to inputs of NOR gate , respectively. RDC  takes the INT_CLK signal as the input at the CLK1 node and a return signal of sense-amplifier reset signal (i.e., TRACK_RESET_SA shown in ) as the input at the A1 node. RDC  generates a trigger signal (e.g., TRIGGER_SAOTC shown in ) as the output at the Q1 node. A default state of the A1 node is HIGH, i.e., the default state of the TRACK_RESET_SA signal is HIGH. When a rising edge of the INT_CLK arrives at the CLK1 node, the output at the Q1 node falls which suggests READ data from a selected bank is ready at the input of the sense-amplifier in the corresponding local IO. Then the output at the Q1 node reaches to SAOTC  as the trigger signal (i.e., TRIGGER_SAOTC).","Returning to , SAOTC  is a sense-amplifier to output latch tracking that applies any conventional sense-amplifier to output latch tracking method. SAOTC  has an input CLK2, a trigger signal input TS node and an output Q2 node. The TRIGGER_SAOTC signal generated from RDC  is sent into SAOTC  through the TS node. The CLK2 node is a signal split from the TRIGGER_SAOTC signal generated by RDC . SAOTC  generates a reset sense amplifier (RESET_SA) signal sent to each SACTRL (i.e., SACTRL_ (), . . . , SACTRL_N\/2(N\/2), respectively, from the output Q2 node. The SAPRCH and SAOEG in the each SACTRL receive the RESET_SA signal from SAOTC  to generate the SAen signals and the SARST signals for the sense amplifiers. For example, SAPRCH , . . . , SAPRCH (N\/2) receive the RESET_SA signal from SAOTC  to generate SARST_, . . . , SARST_(N\/2), respectively; and SAOEG , . . . SAOEG (N\/2) receive the RESET_SA signal from SAOTC  to generate SAen_, . . . , SAen (N\/2), respectively.","GRDPT_CTRL circuit  controls switching ON and OFF of a precharge of the GRDLs (i.e., all GRDTs and GRDCs) using the TRACK_DUMMY_GRDL signal.  shows an exemplary schematic view of a GRDPT_CTRL circuit shown in .","As shown, GRDL_CTRL circuit  includes two circuits , . Circuit  includes inverter , NAND gate , inverter , and NAND gate . Inverter  is coupled to an input of NAND gate . Inverter  is coupled to an input of NAND gate . An output of inverter  is coupled to the other input of NAND gate . Circuit  has input nodes B, C and F that receive the TRACK_DUMMY_GRDL, TRIGGER_SAOTC, and TRACK_RESET_SA signals, respectively, and an output node D that outputs the GRDL_PRCH signal. Circuit  is a signal inverter  that has an input node E that inputs the TRACK_GRDL_PRCH signal and an output node A2 that outputs the DUMMY_GRDL signal. When the TRACK_GRDL_PRCH signal arrives at the input node E of circuit , the DUMMY_GRDL signal comes out the output node A2 of circuit  and then the TRACK_DUMMY_GRDL signal turns back to the input node B of circuit . The TRACK_DUMMY_GRDL signal at the input node B then combines with the TRIGGER_SAOTC signal and the TRACK_RESET_SA signal input from the input modes C and F, respectively, to output the GRDL_PRCH signal sending into GIO  and SAOEG , . . . , SAOEG (N\/2). Here, the TRACK_DUMMY_GRDL signal is the DUMMY_GRDL signal returning from a half way to the top of SRAM  that tracks the DUMMY+GRDL signal; The TRIGGER_SAOTC signal is shared with SAOTC ; The TRACK_GRDL_PRCH signal is the GRDL_PRCH signal returning from a half way to the right of SRAM  that tracks the GRDL_PRCH signal. The TRACK_RESET_SA signal is the REST_SA signal returning from the half way to the top of SRAM  that tracks the REST_SA signal.","Referring to , when the INT_CLK transitions HIGH, the TRIGGER_SAOTC signal falls, which causes the TRACK_DUMMY_GRDL signal HIGH and subsequently switch OFF the precharge of the GRDLs (i.e., the GRDT1, GRDC1, . . . , GRDT_M, and GRDC_M) in GIO . Simultaneously, the GRDL_PRCH signal turns halfway from the right of SRAM  and returns to GRDPT_CTRL circuit  as the TRACK_GRDL_PRCH signal at the input E node, which is a horizontal tracking of the GRDL_PRCH signal. A rising of the TRACK_GRDL_PRCH signal discharges the DUMMY_GRDL at the output A2 node which travels the half way from the top of SRAM  and return to GRDPT_CTRL circuit  as the TRACK_DUMMY_GRDL signal that is a vertical tracking of the sense amplifier storing data on the GRDLs. Then GRDPT_CTRL circuit  waits for a rising edge of the TRACK_RESET_SA signal which triggers a rising edge of the GRDL_PRCH and, in turn, precharge the DUMMY_GRDL and the GRDLs and make GRDPT_CTRL circuit  ready for the next cycle.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["400","116","10","118","1","1","110","10","402","118","404","120","406","106","1","1","106","1","106","1","106","1","1","408","32","30","10","120","410","412","414","416","418","420","410","412","118","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"As shown, at step , a trigger signal is generated from a read delay circuit by receiving an internal clock and a track sense amplifier rest signal in a read cycle. When a rising edge of the internal clock arrives, the track reset sense amplifier signal goes to LOW from a default state of HIGH. At step , the trigger signal is forwarded into a sense amplifier to output tracking circuit for generating a reset sense amplifier signal for sense amplifier control circuits to reset sense amplifiers and a global read line precharge control circuit for generating a global read line precharge signal for precharge of global read lines and dummy global read lines, respectively. At step , the trigger signal is switched OFF after a fixed delay set in the read delay circuit in the read cycle. This results in following two operations at step . One operation triggers a sense amplifier to output latch tracking through the sense amplifier to output tracking circuit. The other operation simultaneously triggers switching OFF a precharge of global read lines and dummy global read lines. At step , after switching OFF the precharge of the global read lines and the dummy global read lines, sense amplifiers start discharging one of the global read lines in a bit depending on data stored in corresponding address locations in a bank of the SRAM. Simultaneously, a track global read line precharge signal starts discharging a track dummy global read lines signal coupled to the global read line precharge control circuit. At step , the internal clock is reset to LOW, the track reset sense amplifier signal is reset to HIGH. Then the precharge of the global read lines and the dummy global read lines is triggered to switch ON by generating a rising edge of the global read line precharge signal, which precharges the track dummy global read lines and make the SRAM ready for the next read cycle.","The advantages of the described embodiments are as follows. A precharge of the global read lines (GRDLs) (i.e., all GRDTs and GRDCs in GIO ) using the GRDL_PRCH signal is finished before the sense-amplifier starts discharging the GRDLs. This ensures that a READ operation does not fail due to an early arrival of the TRIGGER_SAOTC signal. This also improves an access time and cycle time of SRAMs by eliminating possible contention on the GRDLs between the sense amplifier enable signals (SAens) and the TRIGGER_SAOTC signals. Furthermore, the described embodiments ensure that short circuit current on the GRDLs due to the sense-amplifier discharging the GRDLs and the TRIGGER_SAOTC signal pre-charging the GRDLs is eliminated across all PVTs and instance sizes of the SRAM, thus, providing a GRDL precharge operation a margin free tracking of the GRDL precharge operation. This enhances the performance and robustness of the SRAMs across PVTs and instance sizes. Furthermore, in the described embodiments, the GRDL precharge operation is tracked, which results in a significant improvement in a cycle time and dynamic power.","Reference herein to \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment of the invention, nor are separate or alternative embodiments necessarily mutually exclusive of other embodiments. The same applies to the term \u201cimplementation.\u201d","As used in this application, the word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used herein to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather, use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.","Additionally, the term \u201cor\u201d is intended to mean an inclusive \u201cor\u201d rather than an exclusive \u201cor\u201d. That is, unless specified otherwise, or clear from context, \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is, if X employs A; X employs B; or X employs both A and B, then \u201cX employs A or B\u201d is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition, the articles \u201ca\u201d and \u201can\u201d as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean \u201cone or more\u201d unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.","Although the subject matter described herein is described in the context of illustrative implementations to process one or more computing application features\/operations for a computing application having user-interactive components the subject matter is not limited to these particular embodiments. Rather, the techniques described herein can be applied to any suitable type of user-interactive component execution management methods, systems, platforms, and\/or apparatus.","While the exemplary embodiments have been described with respect to processes of circuits, including possible implementation as a single integrated circuit, a multi-chip module, a single card, or a multi-card circuit pack, the embodiments are not so limited. As would be apparent to one skilled in the art, various functions of circuit elements are also implemented as processing blocks in a software program. Such software is employed in, for example, a digital signal processor, micro-controller, or general purpose computer.","Unless explicitly stated otherwise, each numerical value and range should be interpreted as being approximate as if the word \u201cabout\u201d or \u201capproximately\u201d preceded the value of the value or range.","The use of figure numbers and\/or figure reference labels in the claims is intended to identify one or more embodiments of the invention in order to facilitate the interpretation of the claims. Such use is not to be construed as necessarily limiting the scope of those claims to the embodiments shown in the corresponding figures.","It should be understood that the steps of the embodiments of the invention that are methods set forth herein are not necessarily required to be performed in the order described, and the order of the steps of such methods should be understood to be merely exemplary. Likewise, additional steps are included in such methods, and certain steps are omitted or combined, in methods consistent with various embodiments.","Although the elements in the following method claims, if any, are recited in a particular sequence with corresponding labeling, unless the claim recitations otherwise imply a particular sequence for implementing some or all of those elements, those elements are not necessarily intended to be limited to being implemented in that particular sequence.","Also for purposes of this description, the terms \u201ccouple,\u201d \u201ccoupling,\u201d \u201ccoupled,\u201d \u201cconnect,\u201d \u201cconnecting,\u201d or \u201cconnected\u201d refer to any manner known in the art or later developed in which energy is allowed to be transferred between two or more elements, and the interposition of one or more additional elements is contemplated, although not required. Conversely, the terms \u201cdirectly coupled,\u201d \u201cdirectly connected,\u201d etc., imply the absence of such additional elements.","Also, for purposes of this description, it is understood that all gates are powered from a fixed-voltage power domain (or domains) and ground unless shown otherwise. Accordingly, all digital signals generally have voltages that range from approximately ground potential to that of one of the power domains and transition (slew) quickly. However and unless stated otherwise, ground is considered a power source having a voltage of approximately zero volts, and a power source having any desired voltage is substituted for ground. Therefore, all gates are powered by at least two power sources, with the attendant digital signals therefrom having voltages that range between the approximate voltages of the power sources.","Signals and corresponding nodes or ports are referred to by the same name and are interchangeable for purposes here.","Transistors are typically shown as single devices for illustrative purposes. However, it is understood by those with skill in the art that transistors will have various sizes (e.g., gate width and length) and characteristics (e.g., threshold voltage, gain, etc.) and consist of multiple transistors coupled in parallel to get desired electrical characteristics from the combination. Further, the illustrated transistors may be composite transistors.","As used in this specification and claims, the term \u201coutput node\u201d refers generically to either the source or drain of a metal-oxide semiconductor (MOS) transistor device (also referred to as a MOSFET), and the term \u201ccontrol node\u201d refers generically to the gate of the MOSFET. Similarly, as used in the claims, the terms \u201csource,\u201d \u201cdrain,\u201d and \u201cgate\u201d should be understood to refer either to the source, drain, and gate of a MOSFET or to the emitter, collector, and base of a bi-polar device when the embodiment is implemented using bi-polar transistor technology.","No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. \u00a7112, sixth paragraph, unless the element is expressly recited using one of the phrases \u201cmeans for\u201d or \u201cstep for.\u201d","It will be further understood that various changes in the details, materials, and arrangements of the parts which have been described and illustrated in order to explain of described embodiments may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope as expressed in the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING FIGURES","p":["Other embodiments of the invention will become more fully apparent from the following detailed description, the appended claims, and the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals identify similar or identical elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
