---
title: Anisotropy in resolution spatial filter image processing apparatus, and information processing method
abstract: An information processing method includes calculating a second spatial filter having a size of the number of elements larger than a blur size of an image using a finite first spatial filter having an anisotropy in resolution of the image and a finite filter in which a value of a total sum of elements is zero and at least two elements have a non-zero value, and generating a plurality of spatial filters having a predetermined number of elements or less from the second spatial filter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418406&OS=09418406&RS=09418406
owner: FUJITSU LIMITED
number: 09418406
owner_city: Kawasaki
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20131118
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS","Embodiment 1","Embodiment 2","Embodiment 3"],"p":["This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2012-268753 filed on Dec. 7, 2012, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The present disclosure relates to an image processing apparatus, an information processing method and a program thereof.","The resolution of an image photographed by, for example, a digital camera is often degraded in the periphery of the image. In particular, the resolution in the periphery tends to degrade with respect to a central portion around an optical axis due to the dependence of an angle of view of an aperture size or aberration of a lens optical system. The vignetting of an aperture is regarded as one of the causes of degradation. A circular-shaped radial aperture formed in the circumferential direction is vignetted to form an elliptical aperture at an area where an angle of view is wide and thus, an image becomes blurred. As a result, the resolution in radial direction is degraded.","Regarding the degradation of resolution, there is a technique in which an image is filtered using different filter data according to a target position of the image to be corrected, for example, in order to cope with the change of a PSF (Point Spread Function) according to the angle of incident light. See, for example, Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 2012-23498.","The level of resolution tends to be different depending on a direction and the property is referred to as anisotropy in resolution. For example, the level of resolution in the radial direction around an optical axis is different from that in the circumferential direction.","While a different filtering is performed according to the position of an image in conventional techniques to correct the blur of the image, anisotropy in resolution may not be improved in the conventional techniques.","According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided an information processing method including calculating a second spatial filter having a size of the number of elements larger than a blur size of an image using a finite first spatial filter having an anisotropy in resolution of the image and a finite filter in which a value of a total sum of elements is zero and at least two elements have a non-zero value, and generating a plurality of spatial filters having a predetermined number of elements or less from the second spatial filter.","The object and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed.","Since the computation in frequency domain such as, for example, Fourier transformation, requires a large amount operations, a convolutional correction is normally performed with a finite spatial filter in order to provide a filtering function to the hardware such as a digital camera. However, a spatial filter having anisotropy is limited to have a finite number of elements and thus, the degradation levels of high frequency components become different with each other depending on the directions, thereby generating Moir\u00e9 depending on the direction.","When the convolutional correction is performed with a finite spatial filter, there is a demand to further reduce the number of elements in order to lower the cost of processing. For example, when the finite spatial filter is installed in the hardware, there are needs to reduce the size of the spatial filter to a predetermined number of filter elements (e.g., 5\u00d75) or less. When the number of filter elements is doubled, the amount of calculations is quadrupled and thus, the size of the spatial filter is desired to be limited to a predetermined number of filter elements or less.","However, when the number of elements of the spatial filter becomes smaller, the size of a PSF indicative of blur may become larger than the number of elements of the spatial filter. In this case, an amount of blur information may be missed and thus, the anisotropy in resolution or Moir\u00e9 may not be prevented from being generated.","Therefore, the disclosed technique intends to provide an image processing apparatus capable of preventing the quality of image from being degraded when the spatial filter having anisotropy of resolution is limited to have a predetermined number of elements, an information processing method and a program thereof.","An image processing apparatus according to one aspect of the present disclosure includes a calculation unit configured to calculate a finite first spatial filter having an anisotropy in resolution of an image and a second spatial filter having a larger number of filter elements than a blur size of an image using a finite filter in which a total sum of elements is zero and at least two elements have a value of non-zero, and a generation unit configured to generate a plurality of spatial filters having a predetermined number of elements or less from the second spatial filter.","According to the disclosed technique, the quality of image may be prevented from being degraded when a spatial filter having anisotropy in resolution is limited to have a predetermined number of elements.","One cause of degradation of resolution will be described with reference to  to .  is a view illustrating an exemplary optical system.  is a view illustrating exemplary apertures according to the position in an image. When the optical system illustrated in  is used, the aperture is circular at the center of the optical axis as illustrated in . However, when an angle of view is wide, a vignetting occurs due to the aperture. As illustrated in , the shape of the apertures becomes an ellipsis according to the position in the image.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0119"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3"]},"Subsequently, an analysis of resolution performed by inventors of the present disclosure will be described. A tendency of degradation of resolution may be analyzed in detail by taking photographs of a Siemens star in which edges are radially distributed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},"As illustrated in , a subject which is widening radially, for example, a wedge-shaped subject may be used and thus, the resolution may be analyzed according to a direction (MTF: Modulation Transfer Function).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0123"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0124"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 85"]},"It may be seen from the analysis result illustrated in  that not only the resolution is degraded but also the anisotropy in resolution occurs in the periphery including the end portion of the image. When the resolution of the Siemens stars are compared, the dependence of an angle exists little in the central portion but, the dependence of an angle exists in the end portion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9","FIG. 10"]},"Here, there is a correction method which utilizes a point spread function (PSF) in order to correct blur including degradation of resolution as described above. The PSF is, for example, a function representing blur. Hereinafter, the function representing blur is also referred to as a blur function.","When it is assumed that an original image is x and the PSF is k, the blur image y is an image obtained by convolving x with k, and is represented as the following equation (1).\n\n\u2003\u2003(1)\n","where  is a symbol of convolution.","Actually, noise n is included, but omitted here in order to simplify the description.","When the equation (1) is Fourier-transformed, the equation (1) is transformed into the following equation (2).\n\n(\u03c9)=(\u03c9)(\u03c9)\u2003\u2003(2)\n","where \u03c9 represents the spatial frequency.","Subsequently, when it is intended to simply obtain the inverse filter K, the inverse filter Kis obtained by a reciprocal of K as represented by the following equation (3).\n\n(\u03c9)=1\/(\u03c9)\u2003\u2003(3)\n","From this, the Fourier transform X(\u03c9) of the original image is obtained by the following equation (4), and the following equation (4) is subjected to an inverse Fourier transform to calculate the original image.\n\n(\u03c9)=(\u03c9)(\u03c9)\u2003\u2003(4)\n","As described above, when the PSF is Fourier-transformed to calculate an inverse filter function (hereinafter, simply referred to as inverse filter) using the reciprocal, a division by the spatial frequency is performed and thus, a zero-dividing may be performed in high frequency domain. The zero-dividing means that it is divided by a value at zero or close to zero. When the high frequency is close to zero, the reciprocal becomes an extremely high value and thus, the high frequency component of noise is emphasized.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0140","num":"0139"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"sub":"inv "},"Therefore, a correction term is inserted into the denominator as represented in the following equation (5) to prevent the noise at higher frequencies from being emphasized in order to reduce noise at higher frequencies.\n\n(\u03c9)=1\/((\u03c9)+\u03bb)\u2003\u2003(5)\n","Since the inverse filter is a complex number, the inverse filter is represented by the following equation (6) using conjugate complex number.\n\n(\u03c9)=(\u03c9)\/((\u03c9)+\u03bb)\u2003\u2003(6)\n","where : is a conjugate complex number.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0144"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 14","FIG. 13","FIG. 14"]},"Here, a case where the PSF is an ellipsis is considered.  is a view illustrating an example of an elliptical PSF. In the example illustrated in , the resolution in the Dy direction is poorer than the resolution in the Dx direction. That is, the resolution in the Dy direction is further degraded than the resolution in the Dx direction.","The PSF of ellipse represented by k(r,\u03b8). The \u201cr\u201d represents a radius and \u03b8 represents a direction. For example, the PSF of an ellipse is represented by a function of the radius \u201cr\u201d and the direction \u03b8. When the PSF of an ellipse is Fourier-transformed, K(w,\u03b8)=fk(r,\u03b8). The \u201cf\u201d represents Fourier transform. For example, the K(w,\u03b8) after Fourier transform is a function of a spatial frequency \u03c9 and the direction \u03b8.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0148","num":"0147"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 16","FIG. 15","FIG. 16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0149","num":"0148"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 17"],"sub":["inv ","inv"],"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["K","K"]},"Therefore, a correction term is inserted into the denominator to prevent the noise at higher frequencies from being emphasized in order to reduce the noise at higher frequencies. The following equation (8) represents the inverse filter which reduces a high frequency component of noise.\n\n(\u03c9,\u03b8)=(\u03c9,\u03b8)\/((\u03c9,\u03b8)+\u03bb)\u2003\u2003(8)\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0151","num":"0150"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 18","FIG. 19"]},"Even when the blur function (e.g., PSF) is an elliptical shaped function, a high frequency component of noise is reduced by a corrected weight (A). However, when the correction using the weight is performed, the resolution in a direction along which the resolution is poor (e.g., Dy direction) may not be corrected and improved. Accordingly, the anisotropy in resolution may not be improved only by simply applying weighting. Therefore, the inventors found out that the anisotropy in resolution may be improved by calibrating an appropriate weight function according to a direction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0152"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 20"]},"Subsequently, description will be made with respect to the generation of the spatial filter for improving the anisotropy in resolution. An apparatus will be described using a method in which gain has been gradually dropped as illustrated in , but is not limited to the method. For example, even a method in which a predetermined value is added, as in , the anisotropy in resolution may be improved. In this method, a predetermined value is added such that the Dy direction is more emphasized than the Dx direction.","<Spatial Filter Generation Apparatus>","Generation of the spatial filter for improving anisotropy in resolution will be described first.","<Configuration>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0157"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 1"],"b":["1","2","3","4","5","6","7","8","9","10"]},"An optical system  condenses light from a subject (K) having a radial shape onto a surface on which image is captured. For example, the optical system  includes lenses , , and a diaphragm . The lenses , , and the diaphragm  condense light from the subject (K) onto the image capturing surface of the image capturing element  to image the subject. The driving control apparatus  is able to control, for example, a location of the lenses , , or a degree of narrowing of the diaphragm . In the meantime, a configuration of the optical system  is not limited to a particular configuration.","The image capturing element  converts light from the subject (K) condensed by the optical system to electrical signal (analog signal). The image capturing element  includes, for example, a two-dimensional image capturing element such as a CCD\/CMOS, and the two-dimensional image capturing element converts an image of the subject into electrical signal (image signal) and output the converted signal to the AFE .","The AFE  converts the analog signal of the captured image into digital signal. The AFE  includes, for example, an A\/D (analog-to-digital) converter  and a timing generator . The timing generator  generates a timing pulse used for driving the image capturing element  based on control signal from the control apparatus  and outputs the timing pulse to the image capturing element  and the A\/D converter .","The image processing unit  maintains an image of the digital signal to perform a predetermined image processing on the image. The image processing unit  includes, for example, a RAW memory  in which an image (RAW image) is converted into the digital signal by the A\/D converter . The image processing unit  may perform a predetermined processing on the RAW image. The image on which the predetermined processing is performed is recorded in the image memory .","The post-processing unit  performs further necessary processing on the image undergone a predetermined processing to generate a display image. The post-processing unit  reads, for example, the image undergone a predetermined processing from the image memory  to perform a necessary processing and generates an image for displaying to output the image to the display unit .","The image memory  stores an image after the predetermined processing. The display unit  includes, for example, a VRAM in which an image is recorded and a display which outputs an image of the VRAM. In the meantime, an image capturing apparatus may not necessarily include a display function, and may be provided with a recording unit (e.g., VRAM) in which image for displaying is recorded instead of the display unit .","The driving control apparatus  controls the optical system . The control apparatus  controls the AFE  and the post-processing unit .","The coefficient analysis unit  analyzes the resolution in each direction in each image position from the image for which the chart is photographed to determine an appropriate filter data for improving the anisotropy in resolution. Details of the coefficient analysis unit  will be described later.","The filter data may be formed with a set of parameters necessary for filtering for an image correction similarly to, for example, a de-convolution kernel. Specifically, the de-convolution kernel may be represented using an area in which a circular or an elliptical shaped subject image according to the PSF is distributed and data (these data referred to as de-convolution distribution) which indicates weight of each pixel in the area.","(Inverse Filter)","The inverse filter utilized in the embodiment will be described. Hereinafter, a calculation sequence of the inverse filter which improves anisotropy in resolution, for example, performs adjustment for a direction along which resolution is poor. Further, the inverse filter is also simply referred to as a filter.","As represented by the equation (1), the original image \u201cx\u201d, a PSF \u201ck\u201d and the blur image \u201cy\u201d are considered. When the original image \u201cx\u201d is obtained, if the following equation (9) becomes a minimum in inverse problem, an image close to the original image may be obtained.\n\n\u2225\u2003\u2003(9)\n","Normally, a type of regularization term is applied in solving the inverse problem. Accordingly, the inverse problem is solved from the following equation (10) in which a regularization term is added.\n\n\u2225()\u2003\u2003(10)\n","In the corresponding problem, directionality is needed and thus, derivative term of a transversal direction (horizontal direction) and a derivative term in a longitudinal direction (perpendicular direction) of image as represented is added as a regularization term in the following equation (11).\n\n\u2225)}\u2003\u2003(11)\n","where \u03b5 represents a weight coefficient, and dand drepresent derivative filters in the direction of matrix. Here, the dis d[\u22121 1] and the dis",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0174","num":"0173"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["d","n"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}}},{"mtd":{"mn":"1"}}]}},"mo":"."}}}}},"It is needed to make a result obtained by performing a partial differentiation of the equation (11) with \u201cx\u201d zero in order to make the equation (11) described above minimum. Also, when the equation (11) is Fourier-transformed and solved for the X(\u03c9), the following equation (12) may be obtained.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0176","num":"0175"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"X","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"mi":"Y","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u025b","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","m"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]}}}}},"where X(\u03c9), Y(\u03c9), K(\u03c9), Dm(\u03c9), Dn(\u03c9) represent x, y, k, d, d, respectively.","The inverse filter K(\u03c9) in frequency domain satisfies the following equation (13).\n\n(\u03c9)=(\u03c9)(\u03c9)\u2003\u2003(13)\n","Accordingly, the inverse filter K(\u03c9) satisfies the following equation (14).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0179"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","inv"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"\u025b","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","m"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mn":"2"}],"mo":"+"}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]}}}}},"When a conjugate complex number is used, the above equation (14) is represented as the following equation (15).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0182","num":"0181"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","inv"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mover":{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mi":"_"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mi":"_"}},{"mi":"\u025b","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","m"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","m"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mi":"_"}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03c9"}},"mi":"_"}}],"mo":"+"}}}],"mo":"+"}}}}}},"where  is a conjugate complex number.","It is characterized in the embodiment that an axis of derivative coefficient is rotated in a direction with an angle of \u03b8 using a rotation matrix in order to adjust resolution in a direction along which resolution is poor, as represented in the following equations (16) and (17).\n\n(\u03c9,\u03b8)=(\u03c9)cos \u03b8\u2212(\u03c9)sin \u03b8\u2003\u2003(16)\n\n(\u03c9,\u03b8)=(\u03c9)sin \u03b8+(\u03c9)cos \u03b8\u2003\u2003(17)\n","As described above, the inverse filter may be made to have a directionality by using the rotation matrix.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0186","num":"0185"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 22"]},"The elliptical PSF is defined as k(r,\u03b8) here, and the elliptical PSF having been Fourier-transformed is defined such that K(\u03c9,\u03b8)=fk(r,\u03b8). When a weight \u03b3 according to a direction is set while the equation (16), the equation (17) and the K(\u03c9,\u03b8) are substituted in the equation (15), the following equation (18) is implemented.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0188","num":"0187"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["K","inv"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mover":{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mi":"_"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mi":"_"}},{"mi":"\u025b","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","X"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","X"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mi":"_"}},{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","Y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mover":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","Y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mi":"_"}}],"mo":["+","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"5.3em","height":"5.3ex"}}}]}}}],"mo":"+"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"18"}}]}}}}},"where, \u03b3 is a weight coefficient according to the direction of the inverse filter and \u03b5 is an weight coefficient.","With the equation (18), it becomes possible to perform a weight adjustment for the directionality of the inverse filter utilized in each embodiment. For example, the coefficient analysis unit  adjusts the weight \u03b3 for the direction (Dy direction) along which resolution is poor. The weight coefficient \u03b3 is made to be smaller and thus, the resolution in the direction along which the resolution is poor may be improved.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0191","num":"0190"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 23"],"sub":"inv"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0192","num":"0191"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24","FIG. 24"],"sub":"inv"},"(Coefficient Analysis Unit)","Subsequently, the coefficient analysis unit  will be described. The coefficient analysis unit  determines a spatial filter for improving anisotropy in resolution.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0195","num":"0194"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 25"],"b":["10","10","101","102","10"]},"The resolution analysis unit  analyzes the degradation of resolution of the image in which the subject having a radial shape is captured at least at two directions. The analysis method uses a method described in, for example,  and . When the line pairs per pixel is defined in a transversal axis, and the intensity of amplitude is defined in a longitudinal axis, the resolution analysis unit  may analyze MTF. The lines pairs per pixel may use line pairs per unit distance at a location of the subject. A chart having a wedge shape as well as radial shape is used and thus, the MTF according to a direction may be analyzed as illustrated in  in the embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0197","num":"0196"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 26"],"b":["102","102"]},"The determination unit  may calculate an ellipticity using a major axis and a minor axis obtained. The determination unit  calculates the angle \u03b81 geographically based on the position in the image. Further, the determination unit  may calculate the angle \u03b81 using the major axis and the minor axis of the ellipsis of resolution. An angle may be calculated in line with an actual blur state in the calculation of the angle \u03b81 using the major axis and the minor axis. Here, when a concentric circle is plotted from a center of optical axis, the blur in the radial direction is large, as illustrated in .","The determination unit  only needs to calculate, for example, an angle between a longitudinal direction and the radial direction. In the meantime, the center of an optical axis is basically the center of an image, but the center of the optical axis may be misaligned due to the offsetting of lens. The determination unit  determines the PSF using the ellipticity and the angle calculated. An ellipsis of the determined PSF is rotated by 90 degrees from an ellipsis obtained from the contour lines of the MTF.","Referring back to , the determination unit  determines filter data having anisotropy of the inverse filter with respect to the image corrected by the filter (e.g., the inverse filter described above) according to the blur function (PSF) of the image, based on the resolution analysis result for the image after correction.","Further, the determination unit  changes and determines the weight coefficient (for example, \u03b3) with respect to the derivative direction of the image. For example, the weight coefficient of the Dx direction is set to 1 (one) and the weight coefficient of the Dy direction is set to the weight coefficient \u03b3 to change the \u03b3. Accordingly, the anisotropy in resolution may be improved.","Further, the determination unit  rotates (the image) (e.g., \u03b8) with respect to the derivative direction to determine the weight coefficient. Accordingly, a direction along which the resolution is poor may be detected and thus a filtering of an image may be made.","Specifically, the determination unit  adjusts, for example, the weight coefficients \u03b5 and \u03b3 to determine an appropriate weight coefficient \u03b5 and \u03b3. The weight coefficient \u03b3 represents the weight coefficient of filter parameters of the direction along which resolution is poor. The filter parameters of the direction along which resolution is poor are, for example, Dy(\u03c9,\u03b8) with respect to the weight coefficient \u03b3 of the equation (18) and a conjugate complex number of the Dy(\u03c9,\u03b8).","The determination unit  includes an adjustment unit , an image correction unit , a coefficient determination unit  and a filter determination unit  in order to adjust and determine the weight coefficient.","The adjustment unit  adjusts, for example, the weight coefficient E which does not depend on the direction and the weight coefficient \u03b3 which depends on the direction. The adjustment unit  sets initial values of the weight coefficients \u03b5, \u03b3 and submits the initial values to the image the correction unit .","The image correction unit  performs an image correction using the weight coefficient acquired from the adjustment unit . The image correction unit  filters and corrects the image using the inverse filter indicated in the equation (18). The image correction unit  submits the image after correction to the resolution analysis unit  to analyze degradation of resolution again.","The coefficient determination unit  determines the weight coefficient such that the difference of degradation of resolution between two directions becomes small based on the resolution analysis result for the image after correction. The coefficient determination unit  maintains analysis results of the image corrected by various weight coefficients and determines the weight coefficients \u03b5 and \u03b3, such that a difference between the values of spatial frequency becomes minimal, for example, in a predetermined intensity of amplitude (determination process 1).","Further, the coefficient determination unit  may determine the weight coefficients \u03b5 and \u03b3, such that the difference between the intensities of amplitude becomes minimal in the predetermined spatial frequency (determination process 2).","Plural threshold values 1 and threshold values 2 may be set and the coefficient determination unit  may determine the weight coefficients such that sum of squares of the differences becomes minimum. In the meantime, the coefficient determination unit  may determine the weight coefficients such that a predetermined difference becomes a threshold value or less preset. The threshold value may be set by, for example, a preliminary experiment.","The coefficient determination unit  may determine the weight coefficients such that the difference between sum of squares of the differences of resolution in two directions at a central portion of image and the sum of squares of the differences of resolution in two directions at the peripheral portion other than the central portion of image become a predetermined value or less. Further, the coefficient determination unit  may determine the weight coefficients such that sum of squares of the differences of resolution between the central portion of image and the peripheral portion of the image becomes minimal.","This is because, when reducing anisotropy in resolution, resolution in the central portion of the image and resolution in the peripheral portion of the image is made to equal such that the entire resolution of the image becomes equal in the directions and as a result, the quality of image may be improved.","The determination for minimization by the coefficient determination unit  may be calculated either by using a minimization function or by a person. The minimization function includes, for example, a simplex search method, a steepest descent method or a conjugate gradient method.","The determination unit  changes and adjusts the weight coefficient, obtains the inverse filter using the weight coefficient after adjustment, corrects the image using the obtained inverse filter, and determines the optimum weight coefficient based on the resolution analysis result for the image after correction. The adjustment of the weight coefficient, the calculation of the inverse filter, the correction with filtering, and the resolution analysis processing are repeated until the optimum weight coefficient is determined.","The filter determination unit  calculates the inverse filter Kwhich utilizes the optimum weight coefficient determined by the coefficient determination unit  as in the following equation (19) and obtains the inverse filter kin spatial domain from the inverse filter Kin frequency domain as in the following equation (20). Hereinafter, the inverse filter in spatial domain is referred to as a spatial filter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0215","num":"0214"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","inv"]},"mo":"\u2297","mi":"y"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"19"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["k","inv"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"f","mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mover":{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mi":"_"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mrow":{"mi":"K","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mi":"_"}},{"mi":"\u025b","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","X"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","X"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mi":"_"}},{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","Y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mover":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","Y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03c9","\u03b8"],"mo":","}}},"mi":"_"}}],"mo":["+","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"5.3em","height":"5.3ex"}}}]}}}],"mo":"+"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"20"}}]}]}}}},"Several taps (elements) to be processed are extracted from the inverse filter kto be finitized.","The coefficient analysis unit  performs the processes as described above at each position where the chart is present in the image. The coefficient analysis unit  analyzes anisotropy in resolution at each position in the image and determines the spatial filter of which anisotropy is to be improved.","The processes described above are performed and thus, the spatial filter of which anisotropy is to be improved may be determined while correcting the blur with respect to a predetermined the position of image. For example, a direction along which resolution is poorer than other directions may be detected to determine the weight coefficient with which resolution in the direction having poorer resolution is more improved.","The coefficient analysis unit  performs a calculation of the spatial filter at each position in the image.  is a view illustrating an example of image in which twelve charts are photographed. The example illustrated in  is only an example, and even though the number of charts is not twelve charts, each chart may be present in plural areas formed by dividing the image.","The coefficient analysis unit  determines the filter data at each area in which each chart is present to calculate the spatial filter. The coefficient analysis unit  prepares a table in which a position in the image and the spatial filter is mapped. Further, the coefficient analysis unit  may associate the size of the calculated ellipsis with the table.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0221","num":"0220"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 28"],"sub":"1"},"Accordingly, the image processing apparatus including the coefficient analysis unit  may determine the spatial filter for which anisotropy in resolution is improved. The spatial filter for which anisotropy in resolution is improved is not limited to the example as described above and may include the spatial filter obtained by a technology described in, for example, Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 2012-23498. In this case, the spatial filter is made to have anisotropy in resolution.","The image processing unit  may be configured by, for example, a DSP (Digital Signal Processor). In this case, the RAW memory  may be a memory built-in the DSP or an external memory. Further, the post-processing unit , the image memory , the coefficient analysis unit , the VRAM for displaying may be formed integrally with an integral DSP together with an image processing unit . Further, the coefficient analysis unit  may be formed as an image processing apparatus formed as a single unit or including other processing units.","Alternatively, a predetermined program may be executed not by a dedicated processor for specific processing, such as a DSP, but by a general processor, such as a CPU, to implement functions of the image processing unit  or the coefficient analysis unit . The driving control apparatus , the control apparatus  and the post-processing unit  may also configured by at least one dedicated processor for specific processing or a general processor.","The program which causes the processor to serve as the image processing unit  or the coefficient analysis unit  and a recording medium in which the program is recorded are also included in the embodiments of the present disclosure. The recording medium is a non-transitory medium, and a transitory medium such as signal itself is not included as the recording medium in the embodiments of the present disclosure.","<Problem Due to Finitization of Spatial Filter>","The problem followed by the finitization of the spatial filter will be described hereinafter. When the spatial filter having anisotropy is finitized, information for a portion other than a portion where the extracted taps (elements) of the spatial filter are extracted is missed. The spatial filter has anisotropy and thus, information which becomes missing is different depending on a direction. Further, the sums that add the elements are not equal.","High frequency information is included in the missed information and thus, when the image is corrected by the finite spatial filter, a degree of correction becomes different depending on the direction of correction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0229","num":"0228"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 29","FIG. 29"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0230","num":"0229"},"figref":["FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30"],"b":"101"},"Therefore, when the finite spatial filter is utilized, the degree of correction is different depending on the direction. When the chart is corrected using the nine-tap spatial filter as illustrated in , Moir\u00e9 is generated.  is a view illustrating an example of Moir\u00e9 generated in a corrected image. Moir\u00e9 caused by finitization of the spatial filter as illustrated in  is generated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0232","num":"0231"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0233","num":"0232"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 33"]},"Further, when the spatial filter is installed, there is a demand to limit the size of the spatial filter to the predetermined number of filter elements or less from a point of view of an amount of computation and a memory. Currently, the spatial filter having a size of, for example, 5\u00d75 elements or less may be used.","However, when the number of elements of the spatial filter made to be small, the size of the PSF indicating blur becomes larger than the number of elements and thus, an amount of information is missed. Therefore, the quality of image may be degraded.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0236","num":"0235"},"figref":["FIG. 34","FIG. 34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0237","num":"0236"},"figref":["FIG. 35","FIG. 35"]},"In an example illustrated in , the number of elements of the spatial filter is smaller than the size of blur and thus, information of blur is missed when the image is corrected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0239","num":"0238"},"figref":["FIG. 36","FIG. 36A","FIG. 36A"],"b":"1","br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["x\u2212y\u2212F","y"],"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00008","he":"3.56mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US09418406-20160816-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0240","num":"0239"},"figref":["FIG. 36B","FIG. 36B"],"b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0241","num":"0240"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"I","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"0"},{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"1"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mi":"\u2026"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"22"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"I","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mn":"0","mo":"\u2297","mi":"y"}},{"mi":["F","y"],"mo":"\u2297"}],"mo":"-"},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"0"},"mo":"-","mi":"F"}},"mo":"\u2297","mi":"y"}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"23"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mn":"0"},"mo":"-","mi":"F"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"24"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"=","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["F","\u2032"]},"mo":"\u2297","mi":"y"}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"25"}}]}]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0242","num":"0241"},"figref":["FIG. 37","FIG. 37"]},"Therefore, in the embodiment to be described below, when the spatial filter having anisotropy in resolution is finitized to a predetermined number of elements or less, an object to be solved in installation is achieved to prevent degradation of the image quality.","An outline of preventing generation of Moir\u00e9 will be described first. As described in detail, the spatial filter having anisotropy in resolution is finitized and thus, the missing level of high frequency information is different depending on the direction. Therefore, Moir\u00e9 is generated. That is, the degree of correction for degradation of frequency is different depending on the direction and thus, Moir\u00e9 is generated.","Therefore, an image signal is made to pass through a finite high pass filter to reduce a portion at which luminance abruptly varies and thus, a difference in the degree of correction of high frequency information which is different depending on the direction is reduced. Accordingly, the generation of Moir\u00e9 caused by the degradation of frequency information depending on the direction may be prevented.","A finite high pass filter may be a finite filter in which a total sum of values of elements is 0 (zero) and at least two elements have a value of non-zero. Hereinafter, description will be made using a finite high pass filter as the finite filter.","Further, an object to be solved in installation may be achieved by dividing the calculated spatial filter to generate spatial filters in plural stages, and each spatial filter has a predetermined number of elements or less.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0248","num":"0247"},"figref":["FIG. 38","FIG. 38A","FIG. 36A","FIG. 38B","FIG. 36B"]},"In the embodiment to be described below, with respect to the blur having anisotropy of which size is larger than the number of elements of the spatial filter, plural inverse filters having anisotropy are formed and combined with plural spatial filters to improve anisotropy.","The image capturing apparatus including the image processing apparatus in the embodiment 1 will be described next. In the embodiment 1, the degradation of quality of image when the size of the spatial filter having anisotropy in resolution is finitized to a predetermined number of elements may be prevented.","<Configuration>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0252","num":"0251"},"figref":["FIG. 39","FIG. 21","FIG. 39"],"b":"15"},"The image processing unit  includes a RAW the memory , a filter control unit  and a filter processing unit . The filter control unit  maintains the spatial filter table illustrated in . The filter control unit  calculates the spatial filter having the number of elements larger than the blur size with respect to each spatial filter in the spatial filter table.","The filter control unit  then divides the calculated spatial filter into the spatial filters in plural stages to have a predetermined number of elements or less. The filter control unit  outputs the spatial filters in plural stages to the filter processing unit . That is, the filter control unit  outputs the spatial filters in plural stages corresponding to each position in the image to be processed to the filter processing unit .","The filter processing unit  performs a filtering at the corresponding position in the image using the spatial filters in plural stages acquired from the filter control unit . Accordingly, the anisotropy in resolution which is different at each position in the image may be improved to prevent the generation of Moir\u00e9 and enhance the quality of the image.","(Filter Control Unit and Filter Processing Unit)","The filter control unit  and the filter processing unit  in the embodiment 1 will be described next.  is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary (first) schematic configuration of a filter control unit and a filter processing unit in the embodiment 1. The filter control unit  will be described first. The filter control unit  includes a filter storage unit , a filter acquisition unit , a filter calculation unit  and a filter generation unit .","The filter storage unit  stores at least a first spatial filter , a second spatial filter  and spatial filters  in plural stages. Each filter may be stored in different storage areas, respectively.","The first spatial filter  is a spatial filter having an anisotropy in resolution. The first spatial filter  corresponds to, for example, each filter in the spatial filter table illustrated in . The second spatial filter  is a filter calculated by the filter calculation unit . The second spatial filter is a filter, for example, obtained by convolving the high pass filter with the first spatial filter . The spatial filters  in plural stages are a group of spatial filters generated by the filter generation unit .","The filter acquisition unit  acquires a finite spatial filter having anisotropy in resolution of the image. The filter acquisition unit  acquires the first spatial filter  from, for example, the filter storage unit . The filter acquisition unit  outputs the first spatial filter  acquired to the filter calculation unit .","The filter calculation unit  calculates a second spatial filter by convolving a finite filter in which a total sum of values of elements is 0 (zero) and at least two elements have a value of non-zero with the first spatial filter  acquired from the filter acquisition unit .","In this case, the filter calculation unit  calculates the second spatial filter having the number of elements larger than the size of blur (e.g., the size of an ellipsis of the PSF). The filter calculation unit  includes a determination unit , and the determination unit  determines the blur size from, for example, the size of the PSF stored in the filter storage unit . Further, the determination unit  may determine the blur size from the acquired PSF in a case where the PSF may be acquired from a lens design value by simulation as described in, for example, Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 2012-23498.","The filter calculation unit  calculates the second spatial filter by convolving the first spatial filter having the number of elements larger than the size of the blur of image with the finite high pass filter.","The filter calculation unit  maintains the finite high pass filter in advance. When the finite high pass filter is intended to be defined as, for example, a filter of having 3\u00d73 elements, the finite high pass filter may be obtained using the following equations (26) and (27).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0265","num":"0264"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"Lap","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"4"}},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"0"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"0"}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"26"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"Lap","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"8"}},{"mn":"1"}]},{"mtd":[{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"1"},{"mn":"1"}]}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"27"}}]}]}}}},"The anisotropy described in the embodiment depends on a filter at an angle in any direction and thus, the filter of which all elements have coefficients of non-zeros as represented in the equation (27) may be used.","The filter calculation unit  defines the spatial filter kas a filter of 7\u00d77 elements when the high pass filter is defined as a filter of 3\u00d73 elements and convolves the two filters to calculate a filter of 9\u00d79 elements. As described above, the filter calculation unit  convolves the high pass filter with the spatial filter to calculate the filter having the desired number of taps.","Here, when a filter of 7\u00d77 elements is denoted by F7 and the high pass filter is denoted by \u201cLap\u201d, a filter of 9\u00d79 elements calculated in the filter calculation unit  is represented by the following equation (28).\n\n9=7\u2003\u2003(28)\n","The filter calculation unit  stores the second spatial filter F9 calculated by the equation (28) described above in the filter storage unit .","The filter calculation unit  may be installed in a separate apparatus, and the filter control unit  may store the second spatial filter  obtained from the separate apparatus.","The filter generation unit  acquires the second spatial filter  from the filter storage unit  and generates the spatial filters in plural stages having a predetermined number of elements or less from the second spatial filter . Descriptions regarding the generation of the spatial filters in plural stages will be described later. The filter generation unit  stores the generated spatial filters  in plural stages in the filter storage unit .","The filter processing unit  will be described next. The filter processing unit  includes a convolution operation unit  and a subtraction unit . The convolution operation unit  acquires the image from the RAW memory  and convolves the image in the spatial filters  in plural stages to perform filtering.","The convolution operation unit  may perform filtering on the image in such a manner that the spatial filter  in plural stages causes a single convolution circuit to perform convolution plural times or prepares and causes plural convolution circuits to perform convolution. The convolution operation unit  outputs the image after filtering to the subtraction unit .","The subtraction unit  subtracts the image after filtering from the image acquired from the RAW memory  to generate a corrected image. The corrected image is output to the post-processing unit  or the image memory .","The filter processing unit  may obtain a pixel value of a target pixel here by performing a linear interpolation using adjacent spatial filters rather than using a single spatial filter on each pixel of each area of the image.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0276","num":"0275"},"figref":["FIG. 41","FIG. 41","FIG. 41"],"b":["152","152"]},"Further, the filter processing unit  may calculate the pixel value after the spatial filter itself for the target pixel is obtained with the linear interpolation. Further, in the above example, the number of spatial filters set four adjacent spatial filters, but not limited thereto and may use different plural spatial filters. Additionally, the linear interpolation using a distance is performed but other interpolation scheme may be used. Further, interpolation may be performed for each sub-area resulted from sub-division of an area or performed for each pixel.","Other examples of the filter control unit  and the filter processing unit  will be described next.  is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary (second) schematic configuration of the filter control unit  and the filter processing unit  in the embodiment 1. The filter control unit  will be described first. The filter control unit  includes a filter storage unit , a filter acquisition unit , a filter calculation unit  and a filter generation unit .","In the configuration of the filter control unit  illustrated in , the same reference numerals will be given to the same configuration as .","The filter storage unit  stores a third spatial filter  calculated by the filter calculation unit  and the spatial filters  in plural stages calculated by the filter generation unit .","The filter calculation unit  calculates a third spatial filter  which does not need a subtracting process between the images described above. The filter calculation unit  may make unnecessary subtracting process by performing deformation of equation using the equations (22), (23), (24) and (25). In this example, it is assumed that a third spatial filter F9\u2032 of 9\u00d79 elements.","Accordingly, the same result as described above may be obtained and thus, the finite spatial filter F9\u2032 which does not need a subtracting process between the images may be generated.","The filter calculation unit  stores the calculated spatial filter F9\u2032 in the filter storage unit . The spatial filter F9\u2032 is the third spatial filter .","The filter generation unit  acquires the third spatial filter  from the filter storage unit  and generates the spatial filters in plural stages having the predetermined number of elements or less from the third spatial filter . Generation of the spatial filters in plural stages will be described later. The filter generation unit  stores the generated spatial filters  in plural stages in the filter storage unit .","The filter processing unit  includes a convolution operation unit . The convolution operation unit  performs convolution on the spatial filters  in plural stages and generates a corrected image \u201cx\u201d.","(Example of Spatial Filter)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0287","num":"0286"},"figref":["FIG. 43","FIG. 43"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0288","num":"0287"},"figref":["FIG. 44","FIG. 44"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0289","num":"0288"},"figref":["FIG. 45","FIG. 45"]},"<Generation of Spatial Filter in Plural Stages>","The generation of spatial filters in plural stages will be described next. Hereinbelow, an example in which the filter generation unit  illustrated in  generates the spatial filters in plural stages will be described, but the filter generation unit  illustrated in  also generates the spatial filters in plural stages in the same manner.","First, when the spatial filter having the number of elements larger than the size of the blur into a group of filters having a predetermined number of elements, the filter generation unit  assumes one filter as a basis for dividing and obtains other filters with optimization based on the assumed filter.","For example, it may be assumed that the third spatial filter F9\u2032 is divided into two spatial filters of 5\u00d75 elements (each is defined as F5A\u2032 and F5B\u2032). In this case, the filter generation unit  may define the following equation (29).\n\n9\u2032=55\u2003\u2003(29)\n","where the term \u201ce\u201d is an error of difference. Hereinafter, a method of dividing into the spatial filters in plural stages performed by the inventors will be described.","(Division Method 1)","In the division method 1, the spatial filter F5A\u2032 is defined as a filter formed by extracting a central portion of 5\u00d75 elements of the third spatial filter F9\u2032.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0297","num":"0296"},"figref":["FIG. 46","FIG. 46"],"b":"403","br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["e","=\u2225F","F","A\u2032","F","B\u2032\u2225"],"sup":["2","2"],"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00011","he":"3.56mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US09418406-20160816-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}},"The obtained spatial filter F5B\u2032 is illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0299","num":"0298"},"figref":["FIG. 47","FIG. 47A","FIG. 47B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0300","num":"0299"},"figref":["FIG. 48","FIG. 48A","FIG. 48A","FIG. 48B","FIG. 48B"]},"(Division Method 2)","In the division method 2, the spatial filter F5A\u2032 in a first stage is defined as a filter having anisotropy. For example, the spatial filter F5A\u2032 is formed with just a reciprocal of an anisotropic PSF.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0303","num":"0302"},"figref":["FIG. 49","FIG. 49A","FIG. 49B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0304","num":"0303"},"figref":["FIG. 49C","FIG. 49C"]},"(Division Method 3)","In the division method 3, the spatial filter F5A\u2032 in a first stage is defined as a filter having isotropy. For example, the spatial filter F5A\u2032 is formed with just a reciprocal of an isotropic PSF.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0307","num":"0306"},"figref":["FIG. 50","FIG. 50A","FIG. 50B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0308","num":"0307"},"figref":["FIG. 50C","FIG. 50C"]},"(Division Method 4)","In the division method 4, the spatial filter F5A\u2032 in a first stage is defined as a filter having isotropy and formed by convolving the reciprocal of the PSF with the high pass filter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0311","num":"0310"},"figref":["FIG. 51","FIG. 51A","FIG. 51B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0312","num":"0311"},"figref":["FIG. 51C","FIG. 51C"]},"Further, in a case where the spatial filter in the first stage is isotropic, information of anisotropy becomes a single filter and thus, the number of elements becomes short.","There is a case where a desirable correction result may not be obtained in the division methods as describe above. Therefore, a method for dividing a filter which has anisotropy and a large number of elements into plural stages more properly will be described.","(Division Method 5)",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0316","num":"0315"},"figref":["FIG. 52","FIG. 52"],"b":["403","403"],"sub":"0"},"Accordingly, the high pass filter is formed in the first stage to prevent the generation of Moir\u00e9 and further, a configuration for improving anisotropy is formed such that a filter is divided into filters in plural stages. Therefore, it is possible to cope with the improvement of the blur having the size larger than the number of elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0318","num":"0317"},"figref":["FIG. 53","FIG. 53"],"b":["403","211","403"]},"The filter generation unit  may calculate the spatial filter F5B\u2032 in the second stage by minimizing the estimation function using the third spatial filter F9\u2032 and the spatial filter F5A\u2032.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0320","num":"0319"},"figref":["FIG. 54","FIG. 54"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0321","num":"0320"},"figref":["FIG. 55","FIG. 55"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0322","num":"0321"},"figref":["FIG. 56","FIG. 56A"],"b":"152","br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["y","y\u2212F","A","y","x=y","F","B","y"],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00012","he":"3.56mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US09418406-20160816-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00013","he":"3.56mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US09418406-20160816-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},"In the example illustrated in , the filter processing unit  generates a corrected image \u201cx\u201d using the following equations (33), (34), (35) and (36).\n\n1=5\u2003\u2003(33)\n\n50\u22125\u2003\u2003(34)\n\n51\u2003\u2003(35)\n\n50\u22125\u2003\u2003(36)\n","The spatial filter F5A\u2032 is a combination of the spatial filter having anisotropy and the high pass filter, and the spatial filter F5B\u2032 is responsible for supplementing omission of the spatial filter having anisotropy. Further, a convolution sequence may be reversed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0325","num":"0324"},"figref":["FIG. 57","FIG. 57"]},"(Number of Stages)","The filter generation units ,  determine the numbers of spatial filters to be divided based on a size of a first spatial filter and a predetermined number of elements when dividing the spatial filters into the spatial filter in plural stages.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0328","num":"0327"},"figref":["FIG. 58","FIG. 58"],"b":["203","402","204","403"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0329","num":"0328"},"figref":["FIG. 59","FIG. 59"],"b":["203","402","204","403"]},"The filter generation unit ,  first divide a second spatial filter of 13\u00d713 elements or a third spatial filter of 13\u00d713 elements into a spatial filter of 9\u00d79 elements and the spatial filter of 5\u00d75 elements. Subsequently, the filter generation units ,  divide the spatial filter of 9\u00d79 elements into two-stage spatial filters of 5\u00d75 elements in the same manner.","When the predetermined number of elements is 3\u00d73 elements, the filter generation unit ,  need to divide the spatial filter into more plural stages. Further, when the number of elements of the first spatial filter generated by the filter calculation unit  is 7\u00d77 elements, the filter generation units ,  divide the spatial filter into two-stage spatial filters of 5\u00d75 elements and 3\u00d73 elements. As such, sizes of filters to be divided may differ from each other.","However, when the number of elements of the spatial filter in plural stages are equal, the filter processing unit  uses one convolution circuit to repeatedly perform the same process at least two times. Therefore, the spatial filter in plural stages having the same number of elements and having a larger size of the spatial filter is more efficient. Accordingly, when the filter calculation unit  sets the size of the first spatial filter larger than the blur to 9\u00d79 elements, the filter generation units ,  may generate two-stage spatial filters having the same number of elements (for example, 5\u00d75 elements).","<Gain Multiplication>","Here, the error of difference \u201ce\u201d does not become zero with respect to the estimation function represented by the following equation (30). Accordingly, gain is set and multiplied to the spatial filter in plural stages obtained by minimizing the estimation function to improve accuracy.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0335","num":"0334"},"figref":["FIG. 60","FIG. 60A"],"b":["152","152"],"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["y","y","F","A","y","x=y","F","B","y"],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00016","he":"3.56mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US09418406-20160816-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00017","he":"3.56mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US09418406-20160816-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},"In the equations (37) and (38), Gain1 and Gain2 are obtained by, for example, minimizing the estimation function using the chart illustrated in . The gain estimation function is, for example, a function which represents a distance of MTF in two directions, and Gain1 and Gain2 that minimize the estimation function are obtained. Further, the estimation function of gain may be, for example, a function which represents a distance of MTF in the middle of two directions. The gain calculation may be made by the post-processing unit .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0337","num":"0336"},"figref":["FIG. 60B","FIG. 60B"],"b":["152","152"],"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["y","y\u2212F","A","y","x=y","F","B","y"],"sub":["new","new"],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00018","he":"3.56mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US09418406-20160816-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00019","he":"3.56mm","wi":"2.46mm","file":"US09418406-20160816-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0338","num":"0337"},"figref":["FIG. 61","FIG. 61","FIG. 61","FIG. 40"],"b":["152","301","303","302"]},"The gain multiplication unit  multiplies a value after processing of each spatial filters divided in plural stages by a predetermined gain. The gain multiplication unit  analyzes resolution before and after multiplication of gain is performed to acquire gain with which anisotropy may be best improved from the post-processing unit  as a predetermined gain.","The configuration illustrated in  is based on the configuration of , but the gain multiplication unit  may be included in the convolution operation unit  (e.g., see ).","<Operation>","The operations of the image processing unit  in the embodiment 1 will be described next.  is a flow chart illustrating an example of a filter generation process in the embodiment 1. The process illustrated in  represents a filter generation process by the division method 5.","At step S, the filter acquisition unit  acquires the first spatial filter from the filter storage unit .","At step S, the determination unit  determines the blur size of PSF. The determination unit  determines, for example, the blur size of PSF based on a major axis and a minor axis obtained with analysis of resolution. Further, the determination unit  may acquires the PSF which is a result acquired from a lens design value by simulation as described in Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 2012-23498.","At step S, the filter calculation unit  extracts the spatial filter having the number of elements larger than the size of the blur from the first spatial filter and convolves the finite high pass filter to calculate the second spatial filter (e.g., F9).","Further, the filter calculation unit  subtracts the second spatial filter from a filter in which a value of the center element is 1 (one) and values of elements other than the center element is 0 (zero) to calculate the third spatial filter (e.g., F9\u2032).","At step S, the filter generation unit  divides the third spatial filter into plural spatial filters. For example, the filter generation unit  extracts the fourth spatial filter (e.g., F3) from the first spatial filter.","Further, the filter generation unit  generates a filter (e.g., F5A) obtained by convolving a finite filter in which total sum of values of elements is 0 (zero) and at least two elements are non-zero with the fourth spatial filter. The filter generation unit  subtracts the generated filter from a filter in which a value of the center element is 1 (one) and values of elements other than the center element is 0 (zero) to calculate the fifth spatial filter (e.g., F5A\u2032).","Further, the filter generation unit  minimizes the estimation function using the third spatial filter and the fifth spatial filter to calculate the sixth spatial filter (e.g., F5B\u2032).","At step S, the filter generation unit  determines whether the fifth spatial filter and the sixth spatial filter are filters having the predetermined number of elements or less. When it is determined that each of the generated the spatial filters has the predetermined number of elements or less (\u201cYES\u201d at step S), the fifth spatial filter and the sixth spatial filter are defined as the spatial filter, in plural stages. Further, when at least one of the generated spatial filters have the number of elements larger than the predetermined number of elements, the process goes back to step S. The above-described process of generating plural spatial filters is repeated until each of the generated spatial filters becomes the predetermined number of elements or less.","The process for determining gain will be described next.  is a flow chart illustrating an example of a gain determination process in the embodiment 1. At step S illustrated in , the image capturing apparatus captures a chart image.","At step S, the post-processing unit  analyzes resolution before correction. At step S, the post-processing unit  set an initial value of gain.","At step S, the image processing unit  multiplies the above-described plural spatial filter by the set gain to correct the image.","At step S, the post-processing unit  analyzes resolution after correction. At step S, the post-processing unit  determines whether the gain estimation function becomes minimal. When it is determined that the gain estimation function is minimal (\u201cYES\u201d at step S), the process proceed to step S. When the gain estimation function is not minimal (\u201cNo\u201d at step S) the process goes back step S, and gain is changed.","At step S, the post-processing unit  determines gain with which the gain estimation function becomes minimal and sets the determine gain in the gain multiplication unit .","As described above, according to embodiment 1, when the spatial filter having anisotropy in resolution is made to be finitized to have a predetermined number of elements, degradation of image may be prevented.","An image capturing apparatus including an image processing apparatus in embodiment 2 will be described next. Noise emphasized by the correction performed for improving resolution is reduced in embodiment 2.","The flat portion as well as noise component are included in the captured image. Therefore, even the flat portion causes an image to include a minute amplitude variation.","Here, as illustrated in embodiment 1, when correction is made for the image to improve resolution, an effect of amplitude magnification occurs, but the noise component including the minute amplitude variation causes the amplitude to be magnified. Therefore, the noise at the flat portion is emphasized.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0360","num":"0359"},"figref":["FIG. 64","FIG. 64A","FIG. 64B","FIG. 64B"]},"A low pass filter is used to reduce noise. However, the low pass filter filters the entire image and thus, when the noise in the flat portion is to be reduced, the edge portion originally intended to be corrected changes to a gentle shape.","Therefore, it becomes important to reduce the noise non-linearly for the flat portion and the edge portion. There is a coring process as a known non-linear noise process. See, for example, Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 2008-199448.","In the coring process, when an input value is a threshold value or less, an output is made to be 0 to prevent the noise from being emphasized. Further, in the coring process, when an input value is larger than a threshold value, the amplitude of an output is reduced to be small such that a discontinuity is avoided.","The following object to be solved arises in a case where the coring process is just applied after the filtering of each spatial filtering of the embodiment 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0365","num":"0364"},"figref":["FIG. 65","FIG. 65"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0366","num":"0365"},"figref":["FIG. 66","FIG. 66"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0367","num":"0366"},"figref":["FIG. 67","FIG. 67A","FIG. 67B","FIG. 67C"]},"As illustrated in , the coring process accompanying the degradation of amplitude is applied in the filtering of filters in plural stages having anisotropy, the degradation of gain varies depending on the direction and thus, it is unable to improve anisotropy.","Therefore, in the embodiment 2 to be described below, a predetermined gain is determined with respect to an absolute value of a value after the filtering of the filter in such a manner that when the absolute value is equal to or less than a lower threshold value, gain is set to 0 (zero). When the absolute value is equal to or more than an upper threshold value, gain is set to a constant value, and when the absolute value is between the lower threshold value and the upper threshold value, gain is made to be varied in stepwise fashion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0370","num":"0369"},"figref":["FIG. 68","FIG. 68"]},"<Configuration>","The image capturing apparatus in the embodiment 2 is similar to the image capturing apparatus in the embodiment 1 and thus, the same reference numerals are given to the same components to describe the embodiment 2.","(Filter Processing Unit)","The filter processing unit  in the embodiment 2 will be described next.  is a block diagram illustrating another exemplary schematic configuration of the filter processing unit in the embodiment 2. The filter processing unit  will be described. The filter processing unit  includes a convolution operation unit , a gain determination unit , a gain multiplication unit , a subtraction unit  and a filter analysis unit .","The same reference numerals are given to the same configuration of the filter processing unit  in the embodiment 2 as the configuration illustrated in  in the embodiment 1.","The gain determination unit  determines the threshold value of an absolute value of the luminance value subjected to convolution to determine gain. A gain determination process will be described later.","The gain multiplication unit  multiplies the luminance value after the filtering by gain determined by the gain determination unit . Further, the gain multiplication unit , when convolution is performed at plural stages, at least one gain multiplication may be performed or gain multiplication may be performed at all the plural stages.","The subtraction unit  calculates the difference between the image to which gain is multiplied and the original image. The processing described above performed the number of times that is equals to the number of plural stages.","The filter analysis unit  analyzes intensity of filter of the spatial filters in plural stages based on coefficients of filter and determines the spatial filter for which gain is multiplied based on a result of analysis. For example, the filter analysis unit  determines a spatial filter in such a manner that a value subjected to the filtering in the spatial filter having the strongest intensity of filter is multiplied by gain. In the meantime, the filter analysis unit  is not a necessary component for the filter processing unit . Further, the filter analysis unit  is just needed to determine that the intensity of filter is stronger as the difference between the maximum filter coefficient and the minimum filter coefficient becomes gradually larger.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0380","num":"0379"},"figref":["FIG. 70","FIG. 70"],"b":["601","602"]},"The \u201cdy\u201d to which gain is multiplied is subtracted from the original image. The original image after subtraction is subjected to the filtering in a second stage. A corrected image is generated by subtracting the result of the second stage of the filtering from the original image after subtraction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0382","num":"0381"},"figref":["FIG. 71","FIG. 71","FIG. 68"],"b":["601","601","601"]},"<Effect>","The effect according to the embodiment 2 will be described next.  is a view for explaining an (first) effect in the embodiment 2. The expression \u201cthreshold value processing is absent\u201d illustrated in  represents a result of processing performed in the embodiment 1. The expression \u201cthreshold value processing is present\u201d illustrated in  represents a result of processing performed in the embodiment 2.","As illustrated in , the degradation of amplitude is negligible in the \u201cthreshold value processing is present\u201d compared to that in the \u201cthreshold value processing is absent\u201d at a portion where the amplitude is large.  is a view which magnifies a portion (e.g., a flat portion) where variation of amplitude is smaller than the threshold value. As illustrated in , it may be seen that the amplitude in the \u201cthreshold value processing is present\u201d is not much emphasized compared to that in the \u201cthreshold value processing is absent\u201d at the flat portion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0386","num":"0385"},"figref":["FIG. 73","FIG. 73"]},"As illustrated in , the resolution in the \u201cthreshold value processing is present\u201d increases compared to that in the \u201cbefore correction\u201d at a portion where the amplitude is large. Further, as illustrated in , the gain is set to zero in the \u201cthreshold value processing is present\u201d and thus, the \u201cthreshold value processing is present\u201d is equal to \u201cbefore correction\u201d and noise is not emphasized, at the flat portion.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0388","num":"0387"},"figref":["FIG. 74","FIG. 74"]},"<Operation>","The operations of the image processing unit  in the embodiment 2 will be described next.  is a view illustrating an example of a corrected image generation process in the embodiment 2. At step S illustrated in FIG. , the convolution operation unit  performs the first stage of the filtering on the original image.","At step S, the gain determination unit  determines gain based on a value after the first stage of the filtering. The gain determination process will be described later.","At step S, the gain multiplication unit  multiplies the value (dy) by the gain determined in the gain determination unit .","At step S, the subtraction unit  subtracts the value (dy) to which gain is multiplied from the original image.","At step S, the convolution operation unit  performs the second stage of the filtering on the original image for which subtraction is performed.","At step S, the subtraction unit  subtracts the result of the second stage of the filtering from the original image for which subtraction is performed to generate a corrected image.","While the gain is multiplied after the first stage of the filtering in the above-described process, the gain may be multiplied after the second stage of the filtering or after each filtering as described in later.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0397","num":"0396"},"figref":["FIG. 76","FIG. 76"],"b":["401","601"]},"At step S, the gain determination unit  determines whether the absolute value (Cth) is equal to or more than the upper threshold Th1. When it is determined that the Cth is equal to or more than the Th1 (Cth\u2267Th1) (\u201cYES\u201d at step S), the process proceeds to step S. When the Cth is less than the Th1 (Cth<Th1) (\u201cNO\u201d at step S), the process proceeds to step S.","At step S, the gain determination unit  sets an output gain (Gain_th) to the \u201cGain\u201d. The \u201cGain\u201d is a preset value and may be, for example, 1 (one).","At step S, the gain determination unit  determines whether the absolute value (Cth) is equal to or less than the lower threshold value (Th0). When it is determined that the Cth is equal to or less than the Th0 (Cth\u2266Th0) (\u201cYES\u201d at step S), the process proceeds to step S. When the Cth is larger than Th0 and less than Th1 (Th0<Cth<Th1) (\u201cNO\u201d at step S), the process proceeds to step S.","At step S, the gain determination unit  obtains the output gain (Gain_th) from the following equation 41.\n\nGain_=(0)\/1\u00d7Gain\u2003\u2003(41)\n","At step S, the gain determination unit  sets the output gain (Gain_th) to 0 (zero).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0403","num":"0402"},"figref":["FIG. 77","FIG. 77"],"b":["501","601"]},"At step S, the gain determination unit  determines whether the absolute value (Cth) is equal to or less than the lower threshold value (Th0). When it is determined that the absolute value (Cth) is equal to or less than the threshold value (Th0) (Cth\u2266Th0) (\u201cYES\u201d at step S), the process proceeds to step S. When the absolute value (Cth) is larger than the threshold value (Th0) (Cth>Th0) (\u201cNO\u201d at step S), the process proceeds to step S.","At step S, the gain determination unit  obtains the output gain (Gain_th) from the following equation 42.\n\nGain_=(0)\u00d7Keisya\u2003\u2003(42).\n","where, the output gain (Gain_th) is clipped with the MAX value.\n\nKeisya=1\/(1\u22120)\u00d7Gain\n","At step S, the gain determination unit  sets the output gain (Gain_th) to zero (0).","As described above, according to embodiment 2, anisotropy in resolution may be improved and noise may be prevented from being emphasized at the flat portion.","(Modified Example of Embodiment 2)","Other configuration of the gain processing in the embodiment 2 will be described first.  is a view for explaining a (second) corrected image generation processing in the embodiment 2. In an example illustrated in , the luminance value obtained by convolving a filter of 5\u00d75 elements in second stage with the original image for which subtraction is performed is denoted by the value (dy(in)). The gain determination unit  determines gain according to the value of the \u201cdy\u201d. The gain multiplication unit  multiplies the value (dy) by the determined gain.","An image after having been subjected to the first stage of the filtering is subtracted from the original image. The original image after subtraction is subjected to the second stage of the filtering. The luminance value after the second stage of the filtering is multiplied by gain. The corrected image is generated by subtracting the image after gain multiplication from the original image after subtraction.","The filter having a larger intensity is determined by the filter analysis unit  based on the filter coefficient, and the gain determination unit  and the gain multiplication unit  may perform the gain determination and the gain multiplication, respectively, after the filter determined by the filter analysis unit  is subjected to the filtering.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0413","num":"0412"},"figref":["FIG. 79","FIG. 79"],"b":["601","602"]},"The value (dy) after the first stage of the filtering is multiplied by gain and then the value is subtracted from the original image. The original image after subtraction is subjected to the second stage of the filtering. The value (dy\u2032) after the second stage of the filtering is multiplied by gain. The corrected image is generated by subtracting the image after gain multiplication from the original image after subtraction. In the meantime, the example illustrated in  may be applied in a case where intensity of filters in the first stage and the second stage are about the same degree of intensity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0415","num":"0414"},"figref":["FIG. 80","FIG. 80"],"b":["601","602"]},"In this case, when the degree of emphasis of the corrected image is controlled, the gain values may become the same in the first stage and the second stage. Therefore, for example, when the gain processing is performed only in the first stage filtering, the gain multiplication unit  needs to only multiply the maximum gain (Gain) which is the same as in the first stage of the filtering in the second stage of the filtering.","Further, when the gain processing is performed only in the second stage filtering, the gain multiplication unit  needs to only multiply the maximum gain (Gain) which is the same as in the second stage filtering in the first stage filtering. Further, when the gain processing is performed in both the first stage filtering and the second stage filtering, the gain determination unit  needs to make the maximum gain (Gain) in both the first stage filtering and the second stage filtering to be the same.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0418","num":"0417"},"figref":["FIG. 81","FIG. 81A","FIG. 81A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0419","num":"0418"},"figref":["FIG. 81B","FIG. 81B"],"b":"601"},"The image processing apparatus in the embodiment 3 will be described next. In the embodiment 3, the processing by the coefficient analysis unit  described above and the processing of the image processing unit  of the embodiment 1 or embodiment 2 is made to be performed, respectively, by, for example, the CPU or the DSP.","<Configuration>",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0422","num":"0421"},"figref":["FIG. 82","FIG. 82"],"b":["702","704","706","708","710","712"]},"The control unit  may be, for example, a CPU (Central Processing Unit) which controls various apparatus or operates or manipulates data in a computer. Further, the control unit  may be an operation apparatus which executes a program stored in the main storage unit  or in the auxiliary storage unit .","Further, the control unit  may execute the program for a coefficient analysis processing or an image processing stored in the auxiliary storage unit  to perform each processing as described above.","The main storage unit  may include, for example, a ROM (Read Only Memory) or a RAM (Random Access Memory), and is a storage apparatus which temporarily stores data or a program such as an application software or an OS which is a basic software executed by the control unit .","The auxiliary storage unit  may include, for example, a HDD (Hard Disk Drive), and may be a storage apparatus which stores data relating to, for example, the application software. Further, the auxiliary storage unit  may store the program for the coefficient analysis processing or the image processing acquired from, for example, the recording medium .","The communication unit  may perform a wired or wireless communication. The communication unit  may acquire a plurality of images from, for example, the server and stores the plurality of images in, for example, the auxiliary storage unit .","The recording medium I\/F (interface) unit  is an interface between the recording medium  (e.g., a flash memory) connected via a data transfer path such as a USB (Universal Serial Bus) and the image processing apparatus.","Further, the image processing program or the coefficient analysis program described in the embodiment 1 and the embodiment 2 may be stored in the recording medium  and the program stored in the recording medium  may be installed in the image processing apparatus via the recording medium I\/F unit . Accordingly, the coefficient analysis program and the image processing program installed may be executed by the image processing apparatus.","The camera I\/F unit  is an interface which communicates with the camera . A chart image or an ordinary image to be corrected captured from the camera  is acquired by the camera I\/F unit  from the camera  and is stored in, for example, the auxiliary storage unit .","The camera  may photograph a chart image as illustrated in  or ordinary scenes and people. The photographed image is received by the image processing apparatus via the camera I\/F unit . In the meantime, the camera  may be built in the image processing apparatus.","Accordingly, the image processing apparatus may acquire the chart image and calculate the spatial filter at each position to correct the image to be correct using the calculated spatial filter.","Therefore, the program for implementing the coefficient analysis processing or the image processing may be stored in the recording medium  to cause the computer to perform the above-described coefficient analysis processing or the image processing.","For example, the program may be recorded in the recording medium and the recording medium in which the program is recorded may be allowed to be read by, for example, a computer, a portable terminal, a smart phone, and a tablet terminal in order to implement the coefficient analysis processing or the image processing.","Further, the recording medium may include various recording medium in which information is recorded optically, electrically or magnetically such as, for example, a CD-ROM, a flexible disk, an opto-magnetic disk and a semiconductor memory. The recording medium may also include a ROM and a flash memory where information is electrically recorded. Further, the recording medium does not include a transitory medium such a carrier wave.","Further, the charts illustrated in  to  may be used as an exemplary chart.  is a view illustrating an example of a (first) chart. In the chart illustrated in , the resolution may be analyzed at least two directions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0437","num":"0436"},"figref":["FIG. 84","FIG. 84"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0438","num":"0437"},"figref":["FIG. 85","FIG. 84","FIG. 83","FIG. 85"]},"All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art, and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions, nor does the organization of such examples in the specification relate to a showing of the superiority and inferiority of the invention. Although the embodiment(s) of the present invention has (have) been described in detail, it should be understood that the various changes, substitutions, and alterations could be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 23","sub":"inv"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 24","sub":"inv"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 33"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 36A","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 36B","b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 37"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 38A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 38B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 39"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 40"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 41"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 42"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 43"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 45"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 46"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 47A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 47B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 48A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 48B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 49A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 49B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 49C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 50A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 50B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 50C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 51A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 51B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 51C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 52"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 53"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 54"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 55"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 56A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 56B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 58"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 59"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 60A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 60B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 61"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 62"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 63"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 64A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 64B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 65"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 66"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 67A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 67B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 67C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 68"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 69"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIG. 70"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 71"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIG. 72A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 72B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIG. 73A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 73B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":"FIG. 74"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 75"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":"FIG. 76"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 77"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 78"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":"FIG. 79"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0105"},"figref":"FIG. 80"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 81A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":"FIG. 81B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0108"},"figref":"FIG. 82"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":"FIG. 83"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":"FIG. 84"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"figref":"FIG. 85"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
