---
title: Rotation device for load transporting apparatus
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a load transporting apparatus that is capable of being steered while transporting a load across a base surface. In particular, the load transporting apparatus includes a roller track configured to support movement of a roller assembly, and a support foot that is connected to the roller track with a pin connector. During load transport, the support foot can be maintained in a substantially similar position relative to a frame structure supporting the load even when the transport movement is not in a parallel direction to the orientation of the support foot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09045178&OS=09045178&RS=09045178
owner: ENTRO INDUSTRIES, INC.
number: 09045178
owner_city: Hillsboro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/711,193, filed Dec. 11, 2012, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,573,334, issued Nov. 5, 2013, entitled ROTATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/576,657, filed Dec. 16, 2011, entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TRANSPORTING A LOAD, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/711,269, filed Dec. 11, 2012, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,561,733, issued Oct. 22, 2013, entitled ALIGNMENT RESTORATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13\/711,315, filed Dec. 11, 2012, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,490,724, issued Jul. 23, 2013, entitled CENTERING DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.","This disclosure relates generally to apparatuses for transporting a load, and more particularly to apparatuses for moving heavy loads over small distances with the ability to fine tune the resultant position of the heavy load.","Moving extremely heavy loads has generally been a complicated task because the large forces involved in lifting and transporting the heavy loads. When possible, large loads are often transported by disassembling or breaking up the load into multiple smaller loads. However, this break-down and subsequent reassembly process can be very time consuming, especially when a heavy load is only to be moved a small distance, or needs to be repositioned.","For heavy loads that need periodic movement or adjustment, devices commonly referred to as \u201cwalking machines\u201d or \u201cwalkers\u201d were developed. These machines typically move the heavy loads over small distances in incremental stages. Walking machines are particularly useful for moving large structures, such as oil rigs, which often times need to be moved in order to properly position them over pre-drilled pipes in oil fields, or moved to a new location that is undergoing oil exploration.","Instead of using wheels driven by rotational forces to move heavy loads, walking machines typically use hydraulic lift cylinders to lift the load above a supporting surface, and then move or rotate the load relative to the supporting surface by transporting the load via rollers or tracks in the walking machines. U.S. Pat. No. 5,921,336 to Reed and U.S. Pat. No. 6,581,525 to Smith show two methods of using walking machines to move heavy loads, such as oil rig structures. The '525 patent shows elongated beams under several rollers and lift cylinders, which allows the load from the lift cylinders and rollers to be spread over a large area. However, this disclosed system in the '525 patent does not allow for movement of heavy load in a direction perpendicular to the long axis of the support beams. That is, movement of the heavy load is restricted in the walking device disclosed in the '525 patent to only particular directions, which can make fine tuning of the position of the heavy load difficult.","Embodiments of the invention are directed to apparatuses for transporting loads, where the apparatuses are structured to steer the loads in order to efficiently move the loads between set positions. In some embodiments, a load transporting apparatus that is capable of being steered while transporting a load across a base surface is provided. In these embodiments, the load transporting apparatus includes a roller track configured to support movement of a roller assembly, and a support foot that is connected to the roller track with a pin connector. During load transport, the support foot can be maintained in a substantially similar position relative to a frame structure supporting the load even when the transport movement is not in a parallel direction to the orientation of the support foot.","As described above, walkers, or walking machines, are vehicles that are used for transporting very heavy loads, such as entire oil well drilling rigs. Such loads may be as great as several thousand tons and may be required to be sequentially positioned very precisely over spaced-apart well bores, for example. Embodiments of the present concept are directed to load transporting apparatuses, such as walking machines, for moving heavy loads over small distances with the ability to fine tune the resultant position of the heavy load. For ease of understanding, the terms, \u201cwalkers,\u201d \u201cwalking machines,\u201d \u201cwalking devices,\u201d and \u201cwalking apparatuses\u201d are used interchangeably below. Load transporting apparatuses or systems may include one or more walking machines. Additionally, a walking machine's subassembly of components that facilitate movement of the walking machine are referred herein as a \u201cwalking mechanism.\u201d Walking machines may incorporate one or more walking mechanisms, depending on the specific configuration of a walking machine.","For example, with reference , a load transporting system includes multiple walking machines that support a load being carried by the load transporting system.  show examples of walking apparatuses attached to various loads according to embodiments of the invention. Referring to , multiple walking apparatuses  are positioned under or adjacent to an oil rig . Typically, walking machines  are positioned at least near edge portions of a load  to balance the weight of the load over the various walking machines. However, specific situations may dictate that walking machines  are positioned in various other locations relative to the load .","Referring to , multiple walking apparatuses  are positioned under or adjacent to a silo . Although an oil rig load  and a silo  are respectively illustrated in , walking machines may be used to move any type of relatively large load, such as bridge sections, ship sections, structures, etc. Additionally, although two walking machines are shown in , more or fewer walking machines may be used to move loads , .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A-2F","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2C"],"b":["215","205","200","215","200","205","200","215","205","215","205","200"]},"Referring to , the walking apparatuses  are operated to lift the load  above the base surface . The walking apparatuses  may again be operated substantially simultaneously to lift the load , or may be operated in intervals depending on the conditions associated with the desired move.","Referring to , the walking apparatuses  are operated to move the load  to the right. Although  shows the load  being moved to the right, the walking apparatuses can be operated to move the load in a variety of directions depending on the desired final location of the load. Referring to , the walking apparatuses  are operated to lower the load  to the base surface  and to raise the foot portions of the walking apparatuses above the base surface. That is, after the load  is positioned on the base surface , the walking apparatuses  are further operated so that they are raised above the base surface. Here, the connection between the walking apparatuses  and the load  support the walking apparatuses  when they are raised above the base surface . After the walking apparatuses  are raised above the base surface , they are further operated to be repositioned for another movement walking step, such as by moving the foot portions of the walking apparatuses to the right so that they are in a position as shown in . That is, the base surface touching part of the walking apparatuses  (e.g., the support foot and related structures) is moved to the right while the walking apparatuses  are raised above the base surface . After the walking apparatuses  have been repositioned, they are operated to be lowered to the base surface  as shown in . This completes a single walking cycle, and further walking cycles or steps can be performed by repeating the steps described above with respect to .","As mentioned above, walking apparatuses can be connected to loads in a variety of ways depending on the specific conditions surrounding the load.  illustrate two such connection schemes. Although two connection schemes are illustrated in , embodiments of the invention are not limited to such connection schemes, as many different connection variations exist and are included in the scope of this concept.","Referring to , a walking apparatus  includes a support foot  to interface with a base surface  and a lift mechanism  to raise and lower a load . In the embodiment shown in , the lift mechanism  of the walking apparatus  is attached to a connection frame , which in turn is bolted to framework  supporting the load  with bolts  or other connection mechanisms. In some embodiments, the connection frame  may be part of the walking apparatus  and in some instances, may be permanently welded, bolted, or otherwise connected to the lift mechanism  of the walking apparatus. In other embodiments, the connection frame  may be separate from the walking apparatus , and may only be temporarily used with the walking apparatus in certain situations. In these embodiments, for example, multiple different connection frames  may be built or used with specific load conditions or specifications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 1B"],"b":["320","315","310","300","312","310","300","310","300","310","300"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","415"],"sub":["1 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","515","502","500","592","500"],"sub":["3 ","4 ","3 ","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIGS. 6A and 6B"],"b":["615","600","605","615","620","610","600","630","650","630","615","660","650","630","640","615","640","650","605","655","640","650"]},"In these embodiments, the roller track  is separate from, but connected to the support foot  that contacts the base surface . As discussed above, the support foot  is connected to the roller track  with a pin connector , which allows the roller track to rotate relative to the support foot. This means that the support foot  can be oriented in a first direction while the roller track  is oriented in a second direction. As discussed in more detail below, this ability to vary the orientations of the roller track  and support foot  allows the load supporting apparatus  to be precisely steered, which in turns allows a load  to be moved more efficiently between locations.","In some embodiments, the pin connector  is a king pin connector that allows rotation about an axis in one degree of freedom, while limiting movement in other planes of travel. In some embodiments, the pin connector may further include a bearing (not shown) to facilitate smooth rotational movements. However, because of the heavy weight associated with the loads  being moved by the walking apparatus , other embodiments do not have a bearing to prevent damage to the internal structure of a bearing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A","FIGS. 7A and 7B"],"b":["615","715","720","730","750","740","720","710"]},"The lift mechanism  may include a lift cylinder  that is connected to a load-bearing frame , and a cylinder rod  coupled to the roller assembly . Here, the cylinder rod  may be structured to allow the roller assembly  to rotate about a substantially vertical axis in the center of the cylinder rod. That is, the roller assembly  may be free to rotate around the cylinder rod . The connection between the roller assembly  and the cylinder rod may be a bearing or one of a number of different connection variations. In one embodiment, the cylinder rod  may include a groove (not shown) around side edges of a lower portion of the cylinder rod, where the groove corresponds to a retainer cuff (not shown) of the roller assembly . In this example the retainer cuff is rotatable around the groove, but may easily be assembled or disassembled during installation, break-down, or transportation of the walking apparatus .","Although the embodiment shown in  show the lift cylinder  connected to the load bearding frame  and the cylinder rod  connected to the roller apparatus , in other embodiments, the cylinder rod may be connected to the load-bearing frame, and the lift cylinder may be connected to the roller apparatus. In these other embodiments, the cylinder may be structured to allow the roller assembly to rotate about a substantially vertical axis.","The walking apparatus  may also include a travel mechanism  that is connected to the roller track  and coupled to the roller assembly  such that when the travel mechanism is activated, the roller assembly moves relative to the roller track. In the embodiment shown in , the travel mechanism  includes two travel cylinders mounted on the roller track  on opposite sides of the roller track. Here, the travel cylinders of the travel mechanism  may balance the load being moved by the roller assembly  over the roller track . In other embodiments, one travel cylinder, or three or more travel cylinders may be used to move the roller assembly  relative to the roller track . In other embodiments, the travel mechanism  may include different movement structures, such as pulleys, levers, winches, tracks, etc.","In the embodiments shown in , the roller assembly  may include a plurality of rollers or roller chain  that rotate as well as roll on the roller track . That is, in some embodiments, the roller assembly  may include a WBOT series roller assembly from Hillman Rollers, such as shown in . Due to the configuration of the roller chain  of the roller assembly  and the tolerance between the roller assembly and the roller track  of the walking machine , the rollers of the roller chain will typically be engaged with the roller track during operation and use of the walking machine.","As discussed above, the roller assembly  may be secured to the lower end of the cylinder rod , with the roller assembly being captured within a U-shaped roller track  as shown in . The roller assembly  may be configured to roll along the bottom inside surface of the roller track  as well as along the underside of the two upper flanges of the roller track. The one or more travel cylinders  may be coupled between the cylinder rod  and the roller track . Accordingly, as will be understood from the more detailed discussion below, these travel cylinders  permit for the translation of the roller track  relative to the lift mechanism  and vice versa. The roller track  may be secured to an elongate ground-engaging foot  (support foot) via a rotational pin , which enables the roller track to be rotationally positioned relative to the foot for steering of the walking machine .","In some embodiments, the roller track  may include travel slots  structured to connect the roller assembly  to the roller track . Here, the travel slots  may be configured to allow substantially linear movement of the roller assembly  across the roller track .","As shown in co-pending application Ser. No. 13\/711,269, entitled ALIGNMENT RESTORATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety, a walking apparatus  may also include one or more linking devices coupled to the support foot . One or more biasing devices may be coupled to the linking devices, where the biasing devices are structured to become activated during a load-movement phase when the roller assembly  travels in a direction that is not parallel or perpendicular to a lengthwise direction that the support foot  is oriented, and structured to return the support foot to an aligned position relative to the load-bearing frame  during a recovery phase.","In some embodiments, the one or more biasing devices may become activated when an angular displacement occurs between the support foot  and the load-bearing frame , where the activation of the one or more biasing devices includes a torquing force being applied to the one or more biasing devices. In other embodiments, the linking devices may be structured to be connected to at least one other load transporting apparatus.","As shown in co-pending application Ser. No. 13\/711,315, entitled CENTERING DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS, the contents of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety, a walking apparatus  may also include one or more guide devices positioned adjacent to the roller assembly , and one or more biasing devices coupled to the guide devices. Here, the biasing devices may be structured to become deflected during a load-movement phase when the roller assembly  travels in a direction that is not parallel or perpendicular to a lengthwise direction that the support foot  is oriented, and structured to return the support foot to a centered position relative to the support foot  during a recovery phase.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A","FIGS. 8D-8E","FIG. 8F","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8A"],"b":["8","8","8","8","8","840","805","850","855","850","830","860","820","830","810","810","805"]},"Referring to , a step in a walking motion of the walking machine is illustrated. Specifically, as indicated by the vertical arrows pointing up, when the lift mechanism  is activated, the roller assembly , the roller track , and the foot  are lifted above the base surface or ground  as a single unit. This is due in part because the roller assembly , which is secured to the lower end of the travel mechanism , is captured by the roller track, as discussed above.","Referring to , a next step in a walking motion of the walking machine is illustrated. Here, as indicated by the horizontal arrow pointing to the left, the travel cylinders  are extended to shift the roller track  to the left along the roller assembly . Because the roller track  is secured to the foot  via the rotation pin , the foot also is shifted to the left. The distance of travel of the foot  may be limited by the operable travel, or throw, of the travel cylinders . Because the lateral travel is limited, the roller tracks  only need to be long enough to accommodate the corresponding distance traveled by the roller assembly . As illustrated in , this step occurs while the foot is lifted completely off of the base or ground surface , and with the full weight of the load being supported by the load-bearing or main frame  and its ground-engaging portions.","Referring to , the next step of the walking process is shown. Here, the lift mechanism  is activated (i.e., the cylinder rod of the hydraulic jack is forced out of the lift cylinder) causing the foot  to engage the base surface . As the lift mechanism  continues to operate, the ground-engaging portions of the load-bearing frame  are lifted off of the base surface , so that the entire weight of the load is then supported by the support foot .","Referring to , while the load-bearing frame  is lifted off of the base surface , and the foot  is supporting the load, the travel cylinders  are retracted, causing the entire load-bearing frame , including the supported load, to translate to the left, as indicated by the horizontal arrows pointing to the left in the view shown in . As shown in this figure, the load-bearing frame  has shifted to the left away from its starting position, a distance corresponding to the operable throw of the travel cylinders . During this translation to the left, the roller assembly  rolls along the bottom inside surface of the roller track .","Referring to , the rod of the lift mechanism  is retracted, which causes the load-bearing frame  to be lowered and to engage the base surface  and support the load. As the lift mechanism  continues to be activated, the foot  is lifted off of the base surface . Thus, the walking machine returns to a similar orientation as shown in  and . To continue moving, the steps shown in  may be repeated. Accordingly, cycling through the above illustrated sequential steps will cause the walking apparatus to walk across the base surface .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A","FIGS. 9A and 9B"],"b":["900","951","952","953","954","951","952","941","953","954","942","951","952","953","954","930","955"]},"That is, a load transporting system that is configured to move a load  over a base surface in one or more incremental steps each including a load-movement phase and a recovery phase includes a load-bearing frame  structured to support the load  on the base surface. The load transporting system includes a first load transporting apparatus  including a first lift mechanism  coupled to the load-bearing frame  and structured to lift the load-bearing frame supporting the load . The first load transporting apparatus  also includes a first roller assembly  coupled to the first lift mechanism , a first roller track connected to the first roller assembly and configured to allow the first roller assembly to move over the first roller track in a first direction, and a first travel mechanism coupled to the first roller track and connected to the first roller assembly, the first travel mechanism structured to displace the first roller assembly relative to the first roller track along the first direction. The first load transporting apparatus is connected to a first support foot  positioned below the first roller track, the first support foot structured to interface with the base surface. The first support foot  is connected to the first roller track with a first pin connector . The first pin connector  is structured to allow the first roller track  to rotate relative to the first support foot.","The load transporting system also includes a second load transporting apparatus  that includes a second lift mechanism  coupled to the load-bearing frame  and structured to lift the load-bearing frame supporting the load . The second load transporting apparatus  includes a second roller assembly  coupled to the second lift mechanism , a second roller track connected to the second roller assembly and configured to allow the second roller assembly to move over the second roller track in a second direction, and a second travel mechanism coupled to the second roller track and connected to the second roller assembly, the second travel mechanism structured to displace the second roller assembly relative to the second roller track along the second direction. The second load transporting apparatus is connected to a second support foot  positioned below the second roller track, the second support foot structured to interface with the base surface. The second support foot  is connected to the second roller track with a second pin connector . The second pin connector  is structured to allow the second roller track  to rotate relative to the second support foot.","As shown in , however, additional walking apparatuses are connected to each of support foot. In other embodiments, more than two walking apparatuses may be coupled to the same support foot. In other embodiments, more than two support feet with multiple walking machines are needed to safely and\/or efficiently lift and transport a load. For example, a third load transporting apparatus  may be connected to the same first support foot  as the first load transporting apparatus , and a fourth load transporting apparatus  may be connected to the same second support foot  as the second load transporting apparatus .","Here, the third load transporting apparatus  may include a third lift mechanism  coupled to the load-bearing frame  and structured to lift the load-bearing frame supporting the load . The third load transporting apparatus  may also include a third roller assembly  coupled to the third lift mechanism , a third roller track connected to the third roller assembly and configured to allow the third roller assembly to move over the third roller track in a first direction, and a third travel mechanism coupled to the third roller track and connected to the third roller assembly, the third travel mechanism structured to displace the third roller assembly relative to the third roller track along the first direction. A third pin connector  may connect the first support foot  with the third roller track, the third pin connector structured to allow the third roller track to rotate relative to the first support foot.","Additionally, the fourth load transporting apparatus  may include a fourth lift mechanism  coupled to the load-bearing frame  and structured to lift the load-bearing frame supporting the load . The fourth load transporting apparatus  may include a fourth roller assembly  coupled to the fourth lift mechanism , a fourth roller track connected to the fourth roller assembly and configured to allow the fourth roller assembly to move over the fourth roller track in a second direction, and a fourth travel mechanism coupled to the fourth roller track and connected to the fourth roller assembly, the fourth travel mechanism structured to displace the fourth roller assembly relative to the fourth roller track along the second direction. A fourth pin connector  may connect the second support foot  with the fourth roller track, the fourth pin connector structured to allow the fourth roller track to rotate relative to the second support foot.","As described above, embodiments of the disclosed walking machine are capable of being steered while transporting a load across a base or ground surface. Since each roller track is rotationally secured to a foot with a rotation or king pin, the roller track is able to be selectively rotated relative to the foot.  illustrated exemplary steering modes that that made possible by utilizing a rotational pin to connect the support foot to the roller track.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 9A","FIG. 10B","FIG. 9A","FIG. 10C","FIG. 9A","FIG. 10D","FIG. 9A","FIG. 10E","FIG. 9A"]},"Referring to , a load  connected to lift mechanisms  () of multiple load transporting apparatuses , , ,  can be steered by rotating roller tracks and roller assemblies  to a direction of travel even though support feet ,  are not moved so as to be oriented in the same direction of travel. As shown in , orienting the walking machines , , ,  in diagonal directions relative to the orientation of the support feet ,  allows for the load  to be moved at a diagonal.","Referring to , orienting the left two (or more) walking machines ,  in a first direction and orienting the right two (or more) walking machines ,  in a second complementary direction, allows the load  to be moved and steered in a complimentary-steering mode.","Referring to , orienting the left two (or more) walking machines ,  in a first direction and orienting the right two (or more) walking machines ,  in a second orthogonal direction, allows the load  to be moved and steered in a simple-steering mode.","Referring to , orienting first diagonally opposite walking machines ,  in a first direction and orienting second diagonally opposite walking machines ,  in a second direction, allows the load  to be moved and steered in a spin-steering mode.","Referring to , orienting the walking machines , , , and  in a direction perpendicular to the orientation of the support feet ,  allows the load  to be moved in a vertical or perpendicular direction relative to the orientation of the support feet.","These and other steering modes may be possible in part because each of the walking machines , , ,  include rotation pins  that allows them to be oriented in different directions from the orientation of the support feet , . This can be useful, for example where the support feet ,  have a length dimension greater than the distance between support beam elements of the load-bearing frame. That is, the support feet themselves could not be rotated to a desired direction of travel because they would contact the support frame beams when trying to rotate them to a direction of travel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 6"],"b":["1150","1140","655","1150","1140","1150","1140","1150","1156","1152","1150","1140","1150","1140","1150","1140"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 11","FIG. 12"],"b":["1256","1250","1258","1258","1250","1150","1258","1258","1256","1257","1250","1250"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["1370","1350","1370","1350","1356","1356","1350","1352","1350"]},"The walking apparatuses can use a variety of ways to have the roller track moved relative to the support foot in order to steer the movement of a load. In some embodiments, an operator can manually move the roller track relative to the support foot to perform a steering movement. However, because of the size and weights involved with a typical application, some embodiments of the walking apparatus utilize a propulsion device that is configured to move the roller track relative to the support foot.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"b":["1480","1450","1440","1480","1486","1456","1450","1480","1481","1486","1480","1482","1481","1457","1450"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 15","FIG. 13"],"b":["1580","1550","1540","1580","1586","1556","1550","1580","1580","1580","1550","1370","1550","1550","1540","1580","1370","1557","1550"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 16"],"b":["1650","1640","1682","1685","1682","1680","1682"]},"In other embodiments, the roller track may not be substantially circular, and may be rotated or moved in other ways. The above embodiments merely provide exemplary variations in constructing a walking device according to the concepts of this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 17"],"b":["1750","1740","1780","1787","1789","1750","1788","1787","1750","1740"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 18"],"b":["1850","1840","1880","1887","1859","1850","1888","1889","1887","1889","1850","1840","1889","1859","1850","1840"]},"In addition to being able to steer a load using the walking devices, use of pin connector can allow the orientation of a support foot to be maintained at a desired orientation during a movement cycle. Below are a few of the many example ways that the foot can be maintained in a desired orientation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 19","FIG. 19","FIG. 6"],"b":["1950","1940","1990","1940","1940","1990","655","1940"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 20"],"b":["2040","2090","2092","2091","2040","2040","2050","655"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 21"],"b":["2140","2190","2110","2140","2150","655"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 22"],"b":["2240","2210","2290","2250","2240","2290"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 23"],"b":["2300","2392","2393","2351","2353","2352","2354","2396","2397","2392","2393","2341","2342","2396","2397"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24"],"b":["2400","2405","2400","2410","2415","2420","2425","2430","2435","2440","2445","2400","2425","2445","2400","2410"]},"In another example embodiment, a method of steering a load transporting device connected to a load-bearing frame supporting a load is provided. Here, the load transporting device includes a lift mechanism structured to lift the load-bearing frame, a roller assembly coupled to the lift mechanism and configured to move over a roller track in a first direction by being manipulated by a travel mechanism, and a support foot connected to the roller track with a pin connector. The method includes activating the lift mechanism to raise the support foot off of the ground surface, determining a direction of travel of the load, and rotating the roller track relative to the support foot, where the roller track rotated to align the first direction with the direction of travel. Afterwards, the method includes locking the position of the roller track relative to the support foot, activating the lift mechanism to lower the support foot to the ground surface and raising the load supported by the frame, and activating the travel mechanism to displace the roller assembly in the first direction.","Some embodiments of the invention have been described above, and in addition, some specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However, numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of this patent disclosure. Further, well known processes have not been described in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Thus, while the invention is described in conjunction with the specific embodiments illustrated in the drawings, it is not limited to these embodiments or drawings. Rather, the invention is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents that come within the scope and spirit of the inventive principles set out herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A","b":["2","2","2","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A","b":["8","8","8","8","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 10B","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 10C","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 10D","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 10E","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 24"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
