---
title: Intelligent ringtone and alarm management for smartphones
abstract: A method and system of managing ringtones and alarms by intercepting device events, associating them with user events, smartphone sensor data and text search to intelligently alter the smartphone ringtones without user intervention. Conventionally, altering the ringtone of a smartphone is done through manual selection and is at most customizable with static selections like a different ringtone for text messages and a different for phone call. The present invention provides a control program along with associated data structures that implement intelligent and context sensitive ringtone selection decisions based on a combination of user data from their incoming text, email, alerts, phone calls and combining them with sensor data from the functions of sensory apparatus on smartphones, user generated functions and a rules set for establishing ringtone rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432501&OS=09432501&RS=09432501
owner: 
number: 09432501
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130915
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","Technical Problem","Solution to the Problem","Advantages of the Invention","DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS","Example 1","Example 2","Example 3","Example 3","Example 3","Example 5","Example 6a","Example 6b","Example 7","Example 8","Example 9","INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY"],"p":["The present invention relates generally to the field of computing devices, and more particularly to managing and controlling the ringtones and alarms in smart devices like smartphones and smart watches that are capable of using scheduling and calendaring data.","In recent years, the smartphone has become the most used communication devices. With its ability to store and manage data, it has also enabled people to use it as a personal time management device. A recently published article in the Business Insider magazine points out that there will be 1.5 billion people with smartphone by December 2013. Smartphones have the capability to send and receive data to and from the Internet, in addition to the ability to process the data. Today, several Americans manage their daily schedules through cloud computing (Ex. Google Calendar and Microsoft Outlook). Such interfaces are accessible through desktop computers at the workplace and through smartphones on the go. If one wishes to have coffee with a friend, he\/she may create an event or a meeting on such a calendar. When the time comes, the individual will be alerted about this event on their smartphone. Such automation through the use of cloud computing has added convenience to peoples' schedules in recent years. However, such automation does not exist for automatically silencing a smartphone if you are in a quiet place like a church or changing the ringtones based on the context of the location, event or content on the smartphone. The lack of an intelligent system to selectively silence smartphones can be especially troublesome when a person is in a meeting or conducting an important event.","There are many instances of important appointments, engagements and events, where a person carrying a communication device like a smartphone, is interrupted with phone calls that can wait. There are also several instances where one puts the smartphone on silent or vibrate and forgets to reset it to ring and misses an important call from their boss at work.","Additionally, risks of distraction associated with cellphone usage have prompted lawmakers to pass laws prohibiting use of cellphones during driving. There is no intelligent mechanism to silence a smartphone if one is cruising at a certain speed on the freeway and it may be best that a smartphone does not ring unless it is an emergency.","The invention presented here implements an intelligent method of managing ringtones and alarms based on the users' schedule of events throughout the day, the geo-location factors of the smartphone, and the content being received on the smartphones.","Everyday, people heading to school or official meetings silence their smartphones by using the \u201coff\u201d button, selecting a \u201csilent\u201d setting or setting the volume to minimum. Later, after the event, they are required to un-silence their phones. Though a physical button or the user interface of the smartphone provide an option to change the behavior of the ringtones, it remains a manual user process that a person may exercise multiple times a day. At best this is a cumbersome process and prone to human errors. Frequently the user forgets to set the ringtone back to normal which results in missing an important call or event.","The problem is exacerbated due to hundreds of different models of smartphones with different user interfaces which offer different methods of changing ringtones and silencing the smartphones. Most people struggle with making the changes manually, multiple times a day and ultimately give up on managing their ringtones and how and when their smartphones should ring.","To add to the confusion, there are thousands of ringtones available for download and installation on a smartphone, both free and paid products. Though there are ample choices in number and quality of ringtones accessible to users, there is no easy mechanism to play these differently for different events and conditions a person may want to use a distinctive ringtone for. Currently one can associate a certain ringtone for a certain function, like phone calls, text messages and alarms, each of these settings needs manual changes.","The system and method described herein as \u201cIntelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management\u201d, eliminates the repetitive, manual process for managing ringtones and alarms. Smartphones have the ability to store data, process data and run applications that can do specialized or general purpose computing tasks. Information such as when an individual's phone should be silenced or un-silenced, or what ringtone should be used under what circumstances can be used to intelligently use certain ringtones in certain situations and even completely silence the smartphones under certain conditions.","Intelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management is composed of five distinct parts: the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d, the \u201cEvents Set\u201d, the \u201cControl Program\u201d, the \u201cRingtone Mapping\u201d and the \u201cRingtones Rules\u201d. Each of the five parts has a very distinct purpose in intelligently arriving at a conclusion on what ringtone to use under what circumstances. The Intelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management is implemented as software and it listens to specific events that happen on the device, in our case, the smartphone. Its primary jobs are to Intercept certain \u201cDevice Events\u201d and take action, if needed. \u201cDevice Events\u201d are system generated events like NewEmail( ), that triggers when a new email arrives on the device, NewAlert( ) when an alert is about to go off, or NewTextMessage( ), when a new text or SMS message is received on the device, in our case the smartphone.","The \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d is implemented as a data structure that contains items as {key, value} pairs. The item holds functions and their desired values. Functions need to be evaluated for taking an intelligent action on ringtones.","The \u201cEvents Set\u201d is a dynamic collection of items from the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d that have computed to be true in that instance of time. Since the items in the \u201cEvent Set\u201d are taken from the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d, these are also {key,value} pairs.","The most important part of the system is the \u201cControl Program\u201d that continuously runs in the device, in our case, the smartphone. The \u201cControl Program\u201d is a collection of instructions and data, further implemented into specific modules that process the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d and collect the items that are true at any instance of time into the \u201cEvents Set\u201d. The \u201cControl Program\u201d also implements the User Interface for managing configuration of certain elements of the system and managing ringtones. In addition the \u201cControl Program\u201d also stores three separate ringtones that are used in certain situations, the ringtones being \u201csilent\u201d, \u201cvibrate\u201d, and \u201cflash\u201d respectively. The \u201cControl System\u201d described above can be written in Objective C for the iPhone or as a Java application for Android bases smartphones using the respective APIs (application programming interfaces) to achieve the functionality described herein.","The \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d is also implemented as a data structure that contains items as {key,value} pairs. The item holds text strings and ringtones. The purpose of \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d is to serve as a repository that Is used by the \u201cControl Program\u201d, to decide which ringtone it should select for playing when a particular text is found in events generated on the device (\u201cDevice Events\u201d).","The final piece of the system is the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d, implemented in a mobile relational data database structure like the open source SQLite or commercial products like Oracle Database Lite, SQLAnywhere and many other similar products in the marketplace. The \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d consist of one or more {key,value} pairs from \u201cEvents Directory\u201d and one and only one {key,value} pair from \u201cRingtone Mapping\u201d. The \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d can be in active or inactive state.","The \u201cControl Program\u201d manages the \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d, \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d, \u201cEvents Set\u201d and the \u201cRingtone Rules. The \u201cDevice Events\u201d generated on the device, in our case, the smartphone, are available as an API that the \u201cControl Program\u201d can listen to. Once an event is triggered, the \u201cControl Program\u201d used the \u201cEvents Directory\u201d to dynamically generate the \u201cEvents Set\u201d that is matched against the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d. If an appropriate \u201cEvents Set\u201d match is found by the \u201cControl Program\u201d, it then matches the \u201cDevice Event's\u201d content against the respective text from the {key,value} pair representing the ringtone mapping in the matched ringtone rule. If there is a match, and the ringtone rule is active, the smartphone is set to use the matched ringtone.","This invention solves the problem of having to manually alter ringtone based on certain events or time of the day. In addition, it manages the ringtones and alarms intelligently not only based on events generated by the device, but also based on the events happening dynamically. In addition, the content of the events is taken into consideration before altering the ringtone setting of the device.","Additionally, the present invention relieves a person from worrying about, or executing special settings on their smartphones when they want to be alerted or when they do not want to be disturbed. These decisions are handled intelligently by the \u201cIntelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management\u201d system based on contents of user's email, calendar entries, text messages, where the smartphone is, based on data from the GPS, the accelerometer or any other component on the smartphone.","The present invention has further advantages. The features of this invention can be extended to apply to other conditions apart from processing calendar entries. For example, the invention can be applied to automatically silence a phone when the owner is driving, based on the speed data from the built-in GPS systems on smartphones. Such a product will lead to added convenience and may lead to a reduction in the number of driving accidents. Furthermore, this feature could be extended to provide a larger range of usability. The user can interact with the dictionary and add unique keywords that match with a sender's identification. For example a phrase or keyword matching a sender's email address or name would lead to a silenced phone while a phrase or keyword matching another user can alert a user with a special ringtone.","The present invention is described in the context of a specific embodiment. This is done to facilitate the understanding of the features and principles of the present invention and the present invention is not limited to this embodiment. In particular, the present invention is described in the context of managing ringtones intelligently on a smartphone.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["105","101","108","104","103","101","106","105","107"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["105","201","202","203","204","205","206","207","208","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"The first component is a data structure called the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d  that holds functions and their values that need to be evaluated for taking an intelligent action on ringtones. This information is stored as a {key,value} pair , where key=any function that can be evaluated. Typically any object exposed through the API will have a function that can return a value. If the value of the computed functions equals the value stored in the {key, value} pair , the item is tagged as \u201cTRUE\u201d, otherwise its tagged as \u201cFALSE\u201d The following examples describe a few function and how they are used and stored:","An example of such a function can be the time function e.g. time( ) that return the current time on the smartphone.","Another example can be a function on the GPS object, e.g. GPS(location) that returns the coordinates the current location or the nickname of the previously saved coordinates like home, school, pharmacy, etc.","A {key,value} pair from example 2 above can be stored as {GPS(location),\u201cSchool\u201d} provided \u201cSchool\u201d is a tag that maps the actual coordinates of the user's school.","The \u201cEvents Set\u201d  is a dynamic collection of items from the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d that have computed to be TRUE in that instance of time. Since the events in the \u201cEvent Set\u201d are taken from the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d, these are also {key, value} pairs . The functioning of the \u201cEvents Set\u201d  is illustrated in the example 3 below:","When the \u201cControl Program\u201d  reads \u201cEvents Directory\u201d and finds {GPS(location), \u201cHome\u201d) as a {key, value} pair , It will evaluate GPS(location). The function GPS(location) will return the coordinates of the present location. If the coordinates returned are tagged as \u201cHome\u201d, the GPS(location) function computed to the stored value in \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d  and the {key, value} pair i.e. {GPS(location), \u201cHome\u201d} will be placed in the \u201cEvents Set\u201d .","The \u201cControl Program\u201d  continuously runs on the device. The \u201cControl Program\u201d  is a collection of instructions and data, further implemented into specific modules that process the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d  and create the \u201cEvents Set\u201d . The \u201cControl Program\u201d  also implements the User Interface for managing configuration of certain elements of the system and managing ringtones. In addition the \u201cControl Program\u201d  also stores three separate ringtones that are used in certain situations, the ringtones being \u201csilent\u201d, \u201cvibrate\u201d, and \u201cflash\u201d respectively. The \u201cControl System\u201d  has three modules implemented in software. These are \u201cInteractive Mode Module\u201d that implements the GUI that controls data entry to all other components of the present invention. The \u201cBackground Logic Module\u201d continuously scans the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d  and evaluates each function in the {key, value} pair  for each item. As soon as it find a function that equals the value in the {key,value} pair , it has computed the item to be TRUE and it adds the {key,value} pair  to \u201cEvents Set\u201d . If the item computes to FALSE, then the item, if present in the \u201cEvents Set\u201d  is removed by the \u201cBackground Logic Module\u201d.","The \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d  is also implemented as a data structure that contains items as {key,value} pairs . The item holds text strings and ringtones. The purpose of \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d  is to serve as a repository of information for the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d of the \u201cControl Program\u201d , which decides what ringtone it should select for playing when a particular text, from the {key,value} pair  is found in events generated on the device (\u201cDevice Events\u201d). Items from \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d  are used in \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d .","The final piece of the system is the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d , implemented in a mobile relational data database structure like the open source SQLite or commercial products like Oracle Database Lite, SQLAnywhere and many other similar products in the marketplace. The \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  consist of one or more {key,value} pairs  from \u201cEvents Directory\u201d  and one and only one {key,value} pair  from \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d . The resulting items  in \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  are also constrained as an index key. This means only one unique, unordered combination of {key,value} pairs makes it to the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  database. In addition the items in the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  database can be active or inactive as shown in . Note that the {key,value} pair from the \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d  is of type {\u201ctext\u201d, \u201ctext\u201d}, while the {key,value} pair from the \u201cEvents Directory\u201d  is of type {function( ), \u201ctext\u201d}. The \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  database can contain multiple but distinct {function( ), \u201ctext\u201d} pairs but one and only one {\u201ctext\u201d, \u201ctext\u201d}. The items that can be valid or invalid for the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  database are illustrated in examples 4 and 5 below:","{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} +{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201cDogBark\u201d} and {GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201cDogBark\u201d}+{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} cannot be in \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  at the same time; Only one of these is allowed and the ordering of the {key, value} pairs is not relevant.","(GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d)+{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201cDogBark\u201d} and {GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201cDogBark} are valid and unique keys so they are allowed in \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  at the same time.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["304","304","401","301","305","402","403"]},"Once the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d  and \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d \u2033 are loaded , the \u201cControl Program\u201d  spawns off \u201cInteractive Mode Logic Module\u201d  and \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d . It then waits for \u201cInteractive Mode Logic Module\u201d  to send it a termination signal , otherwise it runs indefinitely . Once the \u201cControl Program\u201d  receives and EXIT signal from for \u201cInteractive Mode Logic Module\u201d , it stops both \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d  and \u201cInteractive Mode Logic Module\u201d  as shown in step  and exits.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["501","301","301","305","307","507","508","501","509","304"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"],"b":["304","601"]},"As the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d intercepts these events and information about these events , it starts evaluating the {key, value} pairs  in the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d . It extracts the function name, from the first item  and evaluates the function. If the result of this evaluation is the same as the corresponding value in the {key, value) pair, then the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d considers this condition as TRUE and adds the key, value} pair to the \u201cEvents Set\u201d , if it is not already present. If however, the function is evaluated and the result does not match the corresponding value in {key, value} pair, then the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d considers this condition as FALSE and deletes the {key, value} pair from the \u201cEvents Set\u201d , if it is present in the \u201cEvents Set\u201d .","This way the \u201cEvents Set\u201d  contains only the unique {key, value} pairs that are evaluated TRUE, by the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d of the \u201cControl Program\u201d  upon each monitored device event. The following examples 6 and 7 illustrate how the \u201cEvents Set\u201d  is dynamically managed by the \u201cControl Program\u201d  upon intercepting the device events and using the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d .","Assume Events Set={Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d} and a new email is received and the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d receives data from NewMail( ). Under step , only one of the items in the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d 301 is found TRUE. Let's say {Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} is TRUE. Then Events Set is set to {Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+{Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}.","Assume Events Set={Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+{Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d} and a new email is received and the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d receives data from NewMail( ). Under step , none of the items in the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d  is found TRUE. Let's say {Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} is FALSE. Then Events Set is set to {Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}.","After processing all items in the \u201cEvents Dictionary\u201d  and completing updates to the \u201cEvents Set\u201d , the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d looks for a perfect match for {key, value} pairs in step  between the \u201cEvents Set\u201d  and the matching collection of {function( ),\u201ctext\u201d} pairs in the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  database that are active. If a perfect match is not found among the active items, the next best match is searched in step . Perfect match is the same collection of {function( ), \u201ctext\u201d} pairs in the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  database as in the \u201cEvents Set\u201d . The next best match is a collection of at least one {function( ), \u201ctext\u201d} pairs, in the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  database, that is smaller than the items in the \u201cEvents Set\u201d . The steps  and  undertaken for perfect and next best match are illustrated in the example 7 below:","Assume Events Set={Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+{Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d} and Ringtone Rules database is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"RINGTONE RULES","ACTIVE?"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} +{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201dDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d} +{\u201cJohn","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"Doe\u201d,\u201cRoosterCall\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Time(location),\u201c1:00PM\u201d}","N"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201dDoorbell\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(speed),\u201c70mph\u201d}+{NULL,\u201dPoliceSiren\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d} +{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}",". . ."]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}","N"]},{"entry":[{},"+{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201cTelephoneFX\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201cDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2012\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},"As another scenario illustrating the next best match, assume that the Events Set={Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+{Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d} and Ringtone Rules database is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"RINGTONE RULES","ACTIVE?"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} +{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201dDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d} +{\u201cJohn","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"Doe\u201d,\u201cRoosterCall\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Time(location),\u201c1:00PM\u201d}","N"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201dDoorbell\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(speed),\u201c70mph\u201d}+{NULL,\u201dPoliceSiren\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d} +{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}",". . ."]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {NULL,\u201cTelephoneFX\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}+","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+{NULL,\u201cDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2012\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"301"},"As yet another scenario illustrating that no best match is found, assume that the Events Set={Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+{Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d} and Ringtone Rules database is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"RINGTONE RULES","ACTIVE?"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} +{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201dDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d} +{\u201cJohn","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"Doe\u201d,\u201cRoosterCall\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Time(location),\u201c1:00PM\u201d}","N"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201dDoorbell\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(speed),\u201c70mph\u201d}+{NULL,\u201dPoliceSiren\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d} +{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}",". . ."]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2013 \u201d}","N"]},{"entry":[{},"+{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d} +{NULL,\u201cDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2012\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"301"},"In case neither the perfect  nor the next best match  are found by the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d, it continues to Wait for intercepting any new device events .","In case a perfect  or the next best match  are found, the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d of the \u201cControl Program\u201d  proceeds to step  and examines the key of the {key,value} pair that represents the item from \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d  in the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d . If the key=NULL, which means no text is associated with the ringtone, the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d of the \u201cControl Program\u201d  simply uses the API of the smartphone operating system to play the respective ringtone.","If, however, as illustrated in step , the key of the {key,value} pair that represents the item from \u201cRingtone Mappings\u201d  in the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  is not NULL and has a text, the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d of the \u201cControl Program\u201d  compares this text with the values returned from the device event in step . This comparison is carried out by using a standard string search API provided by the smartphone operating system. If any of the values from the device event matches the text from in this {key, value} pair, the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d of the \u201cControl Program\u201d  simply uses the API of the smartphone operating system to play the respective ringtone represented by the value part of this {key, value} pair. If the match in step  fails, the \u201cBackground Mode Logic Module\u201d of the \u201cControl Program\u201d  returns to step  to watch and intercept new device events.","The steps  and  are illustrated in the example 8 and example 9 as follows:","Assume a match (perfect or next best match) was found in the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  as {Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+{Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d} and Ringtone Rules database is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"RINGTONE RULES","ACTIVE?"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} +{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201dDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d} +{\u201cJohn","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"Doe\u201d,\u201cRoosterCall\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Time(location),\u201c1:00PM\u201d} +{NULL,\u201dDoorbell\u201d}","N"]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(speed),\u201c70mph\u201d}+{NULL,\u201dPoliceSiren\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d} +{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}",". . ."]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+{NULL,\u201cTelephoneFX\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201cDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2012\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":"305"},"Assume a match (perfect or next best match) was found in the \u201cRingtone Rules\u201d  as {Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+{Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d} and Ringtone Rules database is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"RINGTONE RULES","ACTIVE?"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d} +{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201dDogBark\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d} +{\u201cJohn","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"Doe\u201d,\u201cRoosterCall\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Time(location),\u201c1:00PM\u201d} +{NULL,\u201dDoorbell\u201d}","N"]},{"entry":[{},"{GPS(speed),\u201c70mph\u201d}+{NULL,\u201dPoliceSiren\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d} +{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}",". . ."]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{GPS(location),\u201cHome\u201d}+{NULL,\u201cTelephoneFX\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201cTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2013\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{\u201cHomework\u201d,\u201cCatMeow\u201d}",{}]},{"entry":[{},"{Day( ),\u201dTuesday\u201d}+ {Year( ), \u201c2012\u201d}","Y"]},{"entry":[{},"+{NULL,\u201cDoorbell\u201d}"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"b":["305","607","605","304","601"]},"A real life example of the above is a student receiving a text message from the teacher that \u201cYour Homework is past due\u201d. Assuming the events in example 9, the student's smartphone will play the \u201cCatMeow\u201d ringtone, reminding the student that a rule related to \u201cHomework\u201d has fired a special ringtone that deserves attention.","The examples and figures demonstrate the various components need to successfully implement an \u201cIntelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management System\u201d. The invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments. However, it will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that it is possible to embody the invention in specific forms other than those of the preferred embodiments described above. This may be done without departing from the spirit of the invention.","Thus, the preferred embodiment is merely illustrative and should not be considered restrictive in any way. The scope of the invention is given by the appended claims, rather than the preceding description, and all variations and equivalents which fall within the range of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.","As we can see the current invention can be used in many different areas that can benefit daily of us smartphone. One application that the current invention provides a means to automatically switch on the ringtone implemented as a flash if the Ambient Light Sensor on the smartphone senses dark conditions. Another application can be to use the \u201cRingtones Rules\u201d,  to warn the driver carrying a smartphone, with a specific ringtone when they receive a text, phone call or email and the GPS senses that the driver is speeding above a certain speed. This can warn the driver that it is not safe to attend to the smartphone. Alternatively, the present invention can be used to alert a person with a smartphone when they receive a text message with the words \u201curgent\u201d from their kids or parents.","As we can see, the flexibility of the present invention, lends itself to many users, left only to human imagination. The key is to provide a system and method for the smartphones to intelligently use the device or user events, location, sensor data of any kind on the smartphone and the ability to combine the decisions based on content of the events, messages, and alerts to alter the ringtone behavior."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
