---
title: Signal modulation scheme determination through an at least fourth-order noise-insensitive cumulant
abstract: Various embodiments associated with an at least fourth-order cumulant of a signal are described. The at least fourth-order noise-insensitive cumulant of the signal can be taken and compared against an at least fourth-order noise-insensitive cumulant of known signals. A match can be found between the signal and a known signal and from this match, a demodulation scheme of the signal can be determined. The demodulation scheme can be used to demodulate the signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09042496&OS=09042496&RS=09042496
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09042496
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130219
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The innovation described herein may be manufactured, used, imported, sold, and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.","In a combat environment, different forces can broadcast different signals. In a singular environment, enemy combatants can each broadcast different signals. It may be possible for one combatant to intercept the signal of another combatant. The intercepting combatant may not know the modulation scheme of an intercepted signal. Without the modulation scheme, it may be difficult to put the intercepted signal to use.","A system comprising a receiver and a determination component is described. The receiver is configured to receive a signal. The determination component configured to make a determination of a modulation scheme of the signal, where the determination component uses an at least fourth-order cumulant of the signal to make the determination and where the modulation scheme is employed in demodulation of the signal.","In addition, a system comprising a processor and a non-transitory computer-readable medium is described. The non-transitory computer-readable medium is communicatively coupled to the processor and stores computer executable components to facilitate operation of components. The components comprise a determination component that makes a determination of a modulation scheme of a signal through use of a fourth-order cumulant or greater of the signal and a demodulation component that demodulates the signal through employment of the modulation scheme, where the signal, after demodulation, is outputted.","Further, a non-transitory computer-readable medium configured to store computer-executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method is described. The method comprises acquiring a signal, calculating a fourth-order cumulant or higher of the signal, matching the fourth-order cumulant or higher of the signal with a fourth-order cumulant or higher signal model, selecting a demodulation scheme for the signal through use of the fourth-order or higher cumulant signal model, demodulating the signal in accordance with the demodulation scheme, and causing output of the signal after demodulation.","A robust higher-order statistical method for separating modulation schemes of the digital communication signals is discussed. This uses a new higher-order statistical function which is less sensitive to additive Gaussian noise and therefore is more reliable in classifying signal patterns.","Blind communication signal separation is a critical technology for battlefield situation awareness based upon the tracking of RF transmissions from friendly, hostile, and non-combatant emitters. With the emergence of the software-defined cognitive radios, blind signal separation becomes an attractive research topic in commercial applications. The concept is to exploit the radio transmission environment and choose a preferred (e.g., best) modulation scheme to improve (e.g., maximize) the channel capacity and lower (e.g., minimize) interference in real time. In cognitive radios, the signal data can be transmitted frame by frame and the modulation scheme for an individual data frame is determined depending upon the channel quality to maintain the bit-error-rate (BER) below a certain threshold for high quality data transmission. Another concept is to survey the spectrum and detect the primary user for the cognitive radios in the Dynamic Spectrum Access applications.","The digital data in radio communication is coded as symbols described by the alphabet \u03b1for i=1, 2, . . . , I and j=1, 2, . . . , J. \u03b1is a complex value representing the ialphabet in the jconstellation and can be plotted in an in-phase and quatrature (IQ) constellation. We denote \u03b1=[\u03b1, \u03b1, . . . , \u03b1] as the jconstellation vector. The pattern of the constellation defers depending on the signal modulation scheme. -illustrate embodiments of three distinct modulation constellations: at chart of square quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)16, at chart of circular QAM16, and at chart of V29 QAM 16. Signals can be separated by recognizing and classifying constellation patterns. However, when the communication signal is transmitted through a channel, the transmitted symbols can be noisy and the constellation may not be recognizable if the features used for classification are sensitive to the noise.","Cumulants are used to enhance the performance of the constellation pattern classification in a noisy environment since a high order (e.g., the order equals or larger than 4) cumulant of the signal plus noise equals the cumulant of the signal plus the cumulant of the noise, and the latter theoretically equals zero. The 2(Equations 1 and 2) and the 4(Equations 3 and 4) order cumulants of a unknown variable x=[x, x, . . . , x] are",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"20"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"21"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},"mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"40"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"-"}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"42"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},"mn":"4"}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},"mn":"2"}}}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":["-","-"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["40","40","40","40","40","40","40"],"sup":["th ","1","2","J","j"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03ba","mn":"40"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"40"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"21"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["40","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":"200","sup":["th ","nd "],"sub":["40","42","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","320","330","340"],"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["x","k","a\u0101","e","+ "],"sub":["n","n","n ","n ","1","1","2","I"],"sup":["j\u03c6","j","j","j","j"],"o":"w"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"v","mn":"40"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mfrac":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"40"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"42"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}}]},{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},{"mn":"3","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":"-"},{"mrow":[{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},"mn":"4"}}},{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},"mn":"2"}}},"mn":"2"}}],"mo":["-","-"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},"mn":"2"}}]}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["40","40","40","r40","r40","a40"],"sup":"j","b":["350","330","360"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"400","sub":["r40","i","r40","r40","r40","r40","r40","r40","r40","i","o","o","o","r40","r40"],"sup":["j","th ","j","th ","1","2","J","j","j",{"sub2":"o"}],"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["d","x,j","v","x","v"]},"Given the data sequence x(k) for k=1, 2, . . . , N, at  calculation of complex conjugates occurs. This includes calculation of the complex conjugate of x(k), denoted by x*(k). At , 2and 4order moments are calculated, such as through use of Equations 9-13",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"m","mn":"20"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"m","mn":"21"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"m","mn":"22"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}},"mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"m","mn":"40"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"x","mn":"4"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"m","mn":"42"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"k","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}},"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"k"}}}},"mn":"2"}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{}],"b":["430","440","450","460","470"],"sup":["th ","2","2","2","J","j","j",{"sub2":"o"},"th "],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["c","x","m","x","m","x","c","x","m","x","m","x","m","x","m","x"],"sub":["40","40","20","42","42","20","22","21","40","r40","r40","r40","r40","r40","r40","o ","o","r40","r40","o","o"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"i":["a ","a ","b ","b","a ","b "],"b":["500","500","500","500"],"sup":"2"},"In , the sequences of x(k) and x*(k) are sent to parallel square and multiplication operations, sent to the second parallel square operations, and added up at the parallel accumulation block to yield the accumulated results: M, M, M, M, and M. In , the accumulated results are further sent to parallel square and multiplication operations, sent to the parallel gain operations, send to adders, and send to a division operation to yield v(x). If the phase \u03c6 can be estimated, v(x) is used, otherwise v(x) is used for constellation classification to eliminate the phase effect. The constellation pattern classification using v(x) is similar to the one using v(x) and is not repeated herein. DSP and FPGA technology can be used for hardware implementation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 8","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["600","700","800","600","800","600","100","100","100","600","600"],"sub":["r40","r40","r40","r40"],"i":["a ","a","b ","b","c ","c"]},"With the chart , 1000 symbols are sampled to a non-integer over sampling rate of 4.6387 and filtered by a root square raised cosine filter with a roll-off factor of 0.35. The solid curves are the mean values of 1000 v(x)s, the dashed lines are the theoretical values of v(x), and the dotted curves are standard deviation upper and lower envelops of v(x). From the top down, the first set of curves (upper four curves at SNR=10 dB) are the trial results of the squared QAM16, the second set of curves (middle four curves at SNR=10 dB) are the trial results of the circular QAM16, and the third set of curves (lower four curves at SNR=10 dB) are the trial results of the V29 QAM16. Comparing the results with the ones in the chart , the mean values of v(x) of square QAM16 and V29 QAM16 are shifted a little up and down, respectively. Due to the effect of the roost square raised cosine filter, those changes have little effect in the constellation pattern separation and the cumulants curves are still close to horizontal lines and clearly separated in the SNR domain above 4 dB. Therefore, the patterns can be reliably classified. An additional simulation shows that if 4,000 symbols are used, the curves will be separated even below 4 dB SNR.","The chart  demonstrates values of \u03ba(x) used without knowing the noise variance. The real part of \u03ba(x) versus SNRs for the signals described by Equation 6 with three 16-alphabet modulation schemes is applied: square QAM16, circular QAM16, and V29 QAM16. A frame of 1,000 symbols is used. With the chart , the solid curves are the mean values of the 1000 \u03ba(x)s, the dashed lines are the theoretical values of \u03ba(x), and the dotted curves are standard deviation upper and lower envelops of \u03ba(x). From the top down, the first set of curves (upper four curves at SNR=10 dB) are the trial results of the squared QAM16, the second set of curves (middle four curves at SNR=10 dB) are the trial results of the circular QAM16, and the third set of curves (lower four curves at SNR=10 dB) are the results of the V29 QAM16. Notice that those curves are not horizontal at all which depart from the reference values (the dashed-lines) with the decreasing SNR. This shows that \u03ba(x) is sensitive to the values of SNRs and the estimation quality is poor.","Notice that the modulation parameters such as symbol rate, type of pulse shape, and pulse roll-off factor are not known and the number of samples per symbol is not an integer in the simulation, but they have little effect to the classification performance.","The v(x) or v(x) test applies to constellation based modulation schemes and is not limited to square QAM16, circular QAM16, and V29 QAM16. This new method can be used to separate linear digital modulation constellations included but not limited to M-ary amplitude shift keying (ASK), M-ary PSK, and M-ary QAM in various shapes such as square, circular, cross, star, etc.","The new 4order cumulant calculations can be easily extended to very high orders in the following general form:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"v","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"4","mo":"\u2062","mi":"h"},"mo":",","mn":"0"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"c","mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"4","mo":"\u2062","mi":"h"},"mo":",","mn":"0"}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"c","mn":"42"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}}},"mi":"h"}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"img":[{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00001","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.12mm","file":"US09042496-20150526-P00001.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00002","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.12mm","file":"US09042496-20150526-P00002.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00003","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.12mm","file":"US09042496-20150526-P00003.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}},{"@attributes":{"id":"CUSTOM-CHARACTER-00004","he":"3.13mm","wi":"2.12mm","file":"US09042496-20150526-P00004.TIF","alt":"custom character","img-content":"character","img-format":"tif"}}],"sub":["x","40","80","12,0","16,0","18,0","20,0","j","40","i","80","i","12,0","i","16,0","i","18,0","i","20,0","i","x ","j","o"],"i":["=[v","x","v","x","v","x","v","x","v","x","v","x","=[v","a","v","a","v","a","v","a","v","a","v","a"],"sup":["j","j","j","j","j","j"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["j","o"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"arg","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"munder":{"mi":"min","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mo":[",",",",","],"mn":"2","mi":["\u2026","I"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"d","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["x","j"],"mo":","}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"17"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["t ","o","t,"],"sup":"th ","in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["d","x,j"]},"In implementation of automatic modulation classification using the very high order cumulants (higher than the 4order) in software and hardware can be easily extended from the 4order one.","The new higher-order signal constellation pattern separation method uses a high order cumulant as normalization factor so that the normalized high order cumulants are insensitive to the Gaussian noise. This can be extended to any order and any linear digital signal modulation schemes. Modulation constellation patterns can be classified using a vector of high order cumulants with being affected by the power of the additive Gaussian noise.","The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.","\u201cOne embodiment\u201d, \u201can embodiment\u201d, \u201cone example\u201d, \u201can example\u201d, and so on, indicate that the embodiment(s) or example(s) can include a particular feature, structure, characteristic, property, or element, but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature, structure, characteristic, property or element. Furthermore, repeated use of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d may or may not refer to the same embodiment.","\u201cComputer-readable medium\u201d, as used herein, refers to a medium that stores signals, instructions and\/or data. Examples of a computer-readable medium include, but are not limited to, non-volatile media and volatile media. Non-volatile media may include, for example, optical disks, magnetic disks, and so on. Volatile media may include, for example, semiconductor memories, dynamic memory, and so on. Common forms of a computer-readable medium may include, but are not limited to, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, a hard disk, a magnetic tape, other magnetic medium, other optical medium, a Random Access Memory (RAM), a Read-Only Memory (ROM), a memory chip or card, a memory stick, and other media from which a computer, a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment, the computer-readable medium is a non-transitory computer-readable medium.","\u201cComponent\u201d, as used herein, includes but is not limited to hardware, firmware, software stored on a computer-readable medium or in execution on a machine, and\/or combinations of each to perform a function(s) or an action(s), and\/or to cause a function or action from another component, method, and\/or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor, a discrete component, an analog circuit, a digital circuit, a programmed logic device, a memory device containing instructions, and so on. Where multiple components are described, it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely, where a single component is described, it may be possible to distribute that single logical component between multiple components.","\u201cSoftware\u201d, as used herein, includes but is not limited to, one or more executable instructions stored on a computer-readable medium that cause a computer, processor, or other electronic device to perform functions, actions and\/or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines, algorithms, modules, methods, threads, and\/or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.","Reference in the detailed description to \u2018a fourth-order cumulant\u2019 can include at least a fourth-order cumulant, a fourth-order cumulant or greater, as well as a fourth-order cumulant or higher. For example, discussion of a fourth-order cumulant can be for a fourth-order cumulant, a fifth-order cumulant, an eighth-order cumulant, etc. In addition, the fourth-order cumulant can be noise insensitive (e.g., noise is random and therefore when the fourth-order cumulant is taken the noise is not represented).","In a combat environment, different signals can be present from combatants opposed to one another. For example, a first combatant can intercept a signal of a second combatant. While the first combatant may desire to demodulate and use the intercepted signal, the first combatant may not know the demodulation scheme of the signal. Due to noise in the combat environment, it may be difficult for the demodulation scheme to be determined without processing.","After reception (e.g., interception) of the signal, a fourth-order cumulant of a constellation of the signal can be determined. This fourth-order cumulant causes noise characteristics to be lowered or removed. Further this fourth-order cumulant of the constellation of the signal can be compared against a database of known signals. This comparison can compare the fourth-order cumulant of the constellation of the signal against fourth-order cumulants of constellations of known signals. The individual known signals can be associated with a particular modulation scheme. When a match is found (e.g., an exact match, a match within a certain error tolerance, a match with the lowest error tolerance, etc.), the modulation scheme of the known signal can be selected for the signal. The signal can be demodulated according to the modulation scheme and once demodulated the signal can be put to further use.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 3"],"b":["900","910","920","910","910","910","920","310"]},"The determination component  is configured to make a determination of a modulation scheme of the signal. The determination component  uses a fourth-order cumulant of the signal to make the determination. The modulation scheme is employed in demodulation of the signal.","In one embodiment, the determination component  is configured to make the determination of the modulation scheme of the signal when a transmitter of the signal is not known (e.g., is not of the same network as the receiver ). If the transmitter and the receiver  are of the same network, then the modulation scheme may be accessible through another manner (e.g., the receiver  has saved in memory the modulation scheme of signals from the transmitter).","While aspects disclosed herein discuss a military context (e.g., combatants), it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that aspects can be practiced in non-military aspects. For example, the transmitter can be a personal transmitter of a person in distress and the receiver can be a receiver of a rescue crew. The rescue crew may not know the modulation scheme of a rescue signal sent from the personal transmitter and aspects disclosed herein can be used to demodulate the rescue signal when the rescue crew uses the receiver .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 4"],"b":["1000","910","1010","920","1010","910","1010","410","450","470"]},"In one embodiment, the determination component  can do a check if the modulation scheme is known. If known, then accessing the modulation scheme can occur. If not known, then the calculation component  can calculate the fourth-order cumulant of the constellation of the signal. In one embodiment, the calculation component  uses Equation 3 and\/or Equation 4 to calculate the fourth-order cumulant. In one embodiment, the calculation of the fourth-order cumulant is calculation of the fourth-order cumulant for a constellation of the signal. Once calculated, the determination component  can access the fourth-order cumulant and use the fourth-order cumulant to determine the modulation scheme.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","910","1110","920","1110","910"]},"In one embodiment, the constellation component  can perform analysis of the signal. A result of this analysis can be used in making the determination of the constellation of the signal. In one example, the analysis can be used to determine if the constellation of the signal is square QAM16 (as illustrated in chart of ), circular QAM16 (as illustrated in chart of ), V29 QAM16 (as illustrated in chart of ), or another constellation. With the constellation of the signal known, the determination component  can use the constellation of the signal to determine the modulation scheme for use in demodulation of the signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","910","1110","1210","1220","920","1210","1220"]},"In one embodiment, the match component  is configured to make the match through match of a constellation pattern of the signal enhanced through the fourth-order cumulant of the signal against a constellation of the known signal enhanced through a fourth-order cumulant of the known signal. In one example, constellation pattern of the signal enhanced by the fourth-order cumulant is individually matched with constellation patters enhanced by the fourth-order cumulant of known signals retained in a database (e.g., local database or remote database). When a match is found, the classification component  assigns the constellation pattern of the signal a classification that corresponds to the match. For example, if the signal and known signal have constellations of square QAM16, then the signal is given the classification of square QAM16. The database can have a particular modulation scheme that is associated with a signal with a constellation of square QAM16. With the match and classification complete, the determination component  can select the particular modulation scheme as the modulation scheme for the signal. In one embodiment, the classification component  is configured to select the classification for the signal based, at least in part, on the constellation of the known signal enhanced through the at least fourth-order cumulant of the known signal. The match component  and\/or the classification component  can include the modulation pattern classifier  of  while the determination component  can include the demodulator chooser  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1300","910","1310","1320","1330","1110","1210","1220","920","1310","1320","1330"]},"In one embodiment, the signal with the residual carrier frequency and phase removed, the amplitude of the signal after normalization, and the compensation are employed in selection of the classification. For example, the classification component  can select the classification of the signal after the residual carrier frequency and phase are removed, after the amplitude of the signal is normalized, and after the compensation is applied to the signal.","In one embodiment, the normalization component , the compensation component , and the carrier component  function as a single component. The single component can include the RF pre-processor  of . The single component can perform processing upon the signal after the signal is received by the receiver .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 3"],"b":["1400","910","920","1410","1410","1410","360"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 3"],"b":["1500","910","1510","920","1410","1510","910","1410","1510","330","1510","1410"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 10"],"b":["1600","910","1610","920","1410","1610","1610","1010","1610"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1700","1710","1720","1720","1710"]},"In one embodiment, the components comprise a constellation component that makes a determination on a constellation of the signal, where the constellation of the signal is used to make the determination on the modulation scheme of the signal. In one embodiment, the components comprise a calculation component that calculates the fourth-order cumulant of the constellation of the signal. In one embodiment, the components comprise a match component that makes a match of the fourth-order cumulant of the constellation of the signal with a fourth-order cumulant of a constellation of a known signal. In one embodiment, the components comprise a classification component that selects a classification for the signal based, at least in part, on a result of the match, where the classification is used to make the determination on the modulation scheme of the signal. In one embodiment, the components comprise a confidence component that makes a determination on a confidence level of the modulation scheme, where the demodulation component demodulates the signal in response to the confidence level meeting a threshold level. In one embodiment, the determination component makes the determination of the modulation scheme of the signal when a transmitter of the signal is not known (e.g., is not of the same network as a receiver of the signal). In one embodiment, the components comprise a normalization component that normalizes an amplitude of the signal, a compensation component that determines a compensation for a change effect set of the signal, and a carrier component that estimates and remove a residual carrier frequency and phase of the signal. The signal with the residual carrier frequency and phase removed is employed in selection of the classification, the amplitude after normalization is employed in selection of the classification, and the compensation is employed in selection of the classification.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17","FIG. 17","FIG. 17","FIG. 17"],"b":["1800","1720","1710","1710","1800","1810","1710","1820","1830","1840","1850","1860"]}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Incorporated herein are drawings that constitute a part of the specification and illustrate embodiments of the detailed description. The detailed description will now be described further with reference to the accompanying drawings as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4","sub":"r40"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 18"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
