---
title: Request and response aggregation system and method with request relay
abstract: A system and method for sending and receiving requests and responses, relaying requests, and aggregating requests and responses to and from social networks are described. In one aspect a system user can send a request to recipients chosen by the user as being people or groups most likely to have useful responses to the request. Recipients can respond to the request, relay the request to one or more additional recipients, or both. The other recipients can further respond to and/or relay the request, etc. The system user who originated the request (also referred to as the request originator, or the originator) has control over which other users, if any, can see the request. For example, the originator can specify that the request not be relayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949360&OS=08949360&RS=08949360
owner: crWOWd, Inc.
number: 08949360
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131230
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["People increasingly expect to obtain answers to requests of all kinds quickly online. Search engines become ever more sophisticated, yet can only understand what a user typed, not what a user really wants to know. One type of request is a question that the user would like answered. For example, one may ask \u201cwhere is a good place to play basketball?\u201d A search engine will provide nearby court locations and\/or previous write-ups about basketball from random strangers who happened to use the word \u201cgood.\u201d Whereas, a basketball playing friend would understand what \u201cgood\u201d means to the asker (e.g. similarly skilled players, wood court, and like-minded professionals) and answer accordingly. Another type of request is for a referral. e.g., to a person or company that provides, or is looking for, a service. Users would like to receive answers and referrals from people who they view as being most likely to provide useful responses. Also, users would prefer to control how or whether recipients of the request can relay the request to other people. For instance, the one asking about basketball may want her request to be forwarded by her friends to other like-minded, knowledgeable people outside of her network. Or she may choose to limit that option such that the question cannot be forwarded. But that level of user control is not available in prior systems. Conventional request and response systems, such as Q&A and crowd funding sites, allow users to send requests to strangers via a public forum. However, people typically trust responses from people they know over responses from strangers. Some existing systems allow users to send requests to their social network; however, the best people to respond are often outside of the user's social network. Other conventional systems that focus on mapping relationships between people do not provide a facility for a user to make requests of specific people known to the user, while allowing the user to control how the request and any responses are distributed within a system. In addition, there is no such system that also aggregates requests and responses, and displays user relationships across internal and external networks. Further, there is no such system that parses aggregated requests and responses by external webpages that have been specifically referenced in responses, and allows those external web pages to display related requests, responses and responders' relationships to the viewer.","A system and method for sending and receiving requests and responses, relaying requests, and aggregating requests and responses to and from social networks are described. In one aspect a system user can send a request to recipients chosen by the user as being people or groups most likely to have useful responses to the request. Recipients can respond to the request, relay the request to one or more additional recipients, or both. The other recipients can further respond to and\/or relay the request, etc. The system user who originated the request (also referred to as the request originator, or the originator) has control over which other users, if any, can see the request. For example, the originator can specify that the request not be relayed.","All responses are captured in the system and made available to the originator. In one embodiment, people relaying requests can add an optional message for the next recipient.","Requests can be sent and relayed to people within the system and outside of the system via various electronic communication platforms, including, but not limited to, text, email, posts on other networking sites, or social networking sites, etc. The system receives and interprets responses entered within its own platform as well as responses from platforms outside the system and associates responses with the original requests, thereby aggregating responses from different platforms in a single place. Requests can be of any type including, but not limited to, questions (including one or more of text, audio, and video), funding solicitations, job leads, dating recommendations, etc. Responses can be of any type including, but not limited to, answers (including one or more of text, audio, and video), financial commitments, money transfers, etc.","In an embodiment a unique identifier is used to reference users within the system. Users within the system can be individuals or groups. This identifier routes requests to the referenced user or group.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","110","102","102","106","106","102","102"]},"Processors  are part of system  and include data processing elements for performing the methods described herein. A user interface  is executed by processors  to present system users with a way to interact with the system as shown and described herein.","Various entities are shown in . They include a system user , another system user , and a non-system user . The system users  and  have signed up with the system and access the facilities of the system through the user interface . Non-system user  is not yet a system user, but potentially has relationships and connections to one or more of the system users. System users and non-system users may know each other personally and\/or be connected as friends or colleagues in one or more online networks such as, without limitation, Facebook\u2122 and LinkedIn\u2122. System users can also be related to non-system users when non-system users are listed as contacts in a system user's email contact list(s), e.g. a system user's Google Gmail\u2122 contact list.","System user  is shown with a computer A and a mobile phone B as examples of devices useable to access the user interface . Any other devices not shown here that can access the Internet  are equally capable of providing access to the user interface  of the system . Similarly, system user  is shown with a computer A and a mobile phone B, and the non-system user  is shown with a computer A and a mobile phone B.","Many web-based (Internet-based) systems  can be accessed directly by users , , and . These web-based systems  include many systems with application programming interfaces (APIs) that facilitate actions performed by the system . For example, Facebook\u2122 is a system  that may make APIs available to system  so that system , with user approval, can access the user's lists of \u201cfriends\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["102","202","108","202","202"]},"The system  receives the request made by the originator  and stores it in the databases . The system  also transmits the request () to user's network (UN)  (referred to for convenience as UN ). UN  is one or more networks of the originator , as previously described to include fellow system users and fellow members of other networks (e.g., social networks and email application contact lists). As described further below, the request is transmitted () to particular members of UN  that have been identified by system user  (the originator) as recipients of the request.","Each of the recipient users of UN  receive the request via one or more of their own web applications, phone application, text messages or email messages. When one of recipient users of UN  responds to the request (), it is transferred to the system , which stores the response in the databases . In addition to responding, or instead of responding, the user  can also relay the request provided that the originator permitted relaying. As used herein, to relay means to indicate further recipients of the request to whom the relayer wishes to pass the request. When a request is relayed () it is transferred from the UN  to the system . The system  stores relay data in the databases , such as the request being relayed or a pointer to the request, the identity of the user initiating the relay, the user(s) to whom the request is to be relayed, and relationships among all of the involved users. The system  relays the request according to the relay information (e.g., identities of the relay recipients) provided by the user of UN . The system  cannot perform a relay if the originator  indicated that the request is not to be relayed.","The relay recipients are members of UN 's network(s) (UNN)  (referred to for convenience as UNN ). UNN  is one or more networks of the UN , as previously described to include fellow system users and fellow members of other networks (e.g., social networks and email application contact lists). Each of the UNN  users can choose to respond to the request (), relay the request (), or both. The system  receives any responses and relays, stores all of the data associated with the responses and relays, and transmits the responses and relays in a similar fashion to the actions performed by the system  on receiving input from the UN . In this instance, the relayed request () is transmitted to members of UNN 's network(s) (UNNN)  (referred to for convenience as UNNN ). UNNN  is one or more networks of the UNN , as previously described to include fellow system users and fellow members of other networks (e.g., social networks and email application contact lists). Members of UNNN  that are identified in the request relay  can respond to the request (), or relay the request again (), or both. The system  receive any responses and relays from UNNN  and store them along with any associates data, and aggregates all of the data associated with the originator's request from user . Requests may be relayed to potentially infinite recipients on an ongoing basis. System users through user interface  can easily refer to all aggregated data stored in the system database (). Unlike existing networks which do not show the complete history of a post and its comments regardless of whether a user upstream of the originating post is a \u201cfriend\u201d or common network member of the originator, the entire history of responses to a request is available, subject to the privacy settings set by the originator. Another aspect of an embodiment includes a maximum number of requests that can be sent to the system  by any one originator over a predetermined time period. Other similar limitations can also be imposed by the system .","Figure is flow diagram of an aspect of a user request process according to an embodiment. The user fills out a request form in the system  via the user interface  (see ). Optionally, the user enters recipients to whom the system will route the request (). The user submits the request form to the system , which recognizes the data in the message field as a request (). The system  creates a request identification (ID) for the request and stores the request (). The request ID is a unique identifier that allows all of the data associated with a request to be linked to that request. The system  then executes shorthand commands that the user may have included in the request (). As further described with reference to drawings illustrating an embodiment of the user interface , the system provides icons that are clickable by the user and shorthand commands to indicate what the user wants the system to do, such as to send (relay) the request to particular recipients, categorize the request as belonging to a predefined category, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","102","108","404","102","406","408","102","102","410"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["102","502","102","108","504","506","508","510","524","520"]},"If the received message does not contain a request ID (), the system determines whether the message contains a user ID in an acceptable format (). A user ID is a unique identifier for an existing system user. If the message does not contain a user ID (or a request ID) the system discards the message (). If the message contains a user ID, but no request ID, the system identifies the message as a request (). The request is parsed from the message (), the system creates a request ID, and stores the request and its ID (). The system also determines whether the parsed message contains system shortcut commands (). If shortcut commands are present, the system executes the commands (such as categorizations, who to send request to, etc.) at .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["102","602","604","612"]},"If the specified recipients are either connected to the originator or are opted-in recipients, the system then determines whether a predetermined maximum number of requests per time period have been exceeded by the originator (). In an embodiment, a predetermined number of requests are set for one originator during a time period. If the number of requests\/time period has not been exceeded, the system determines () whether the originator has specified that the request cannot be relayed without originator approval (that is, whether the request is locked). If the request is not locked, the system forwards the request to the specified recipients (). If the request is locked, the system forwards the request with a \u201cno relay\u201d (unless originator-approved) provision enabled ().","If the number of requests\/time period has been exceeded (), the system does not forward the request, but sends a message to the originator to inform him or her that they must wait before sending another request ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["102","118","118","102","102","118"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["102","802","804","808","806","808","824","826","804","826","808","810","812","814","816","818","812","820","822"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["102","902","904","906","908","910","912","914","916","918","920"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["102","1002","102","1004","102","1006","102","1016","102","1008","102","102","1010","102","1012","1014","102","102","1014"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 11-18","FIG. 11"],"b":"102"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 12A","FIG. 12D","FIG. 12A","FIG. 12B","FIG. 12C","FIG. 12D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 15","sup":"th "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 16","sup":"th "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 17"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 19","sup":"th "},"Aspects of the systems and methods described herein may be implemented as functionality programmed into any of a variety of circuitry, including programmable logic devices (PLDs), such as field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), programmable array logic (PAL) devices, electrically programmable logic and memory devices and standard cell-based devices, as well as application specific integrated circuits (ASICs). Some other possibilities for implementing aspects of the system include: microcontrollers with memory (such as electronically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM)), embedded microprocessors, firmware, software, etc. Furthermore, aspects of the system may be embodied in microprocessors having software-based circuit emulation, discrete logic (sequential and combinatorial), custom devices, fuzzy (neural) logic, quantum devices, and hybrids of any of the above device types. Of course the underlying device technologies may be provided in a variety of component types, e.g., metal-oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) technologies like complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS), bipolar technologies like emitter-coupled logic (ECL), polymer technologies (e.g., silicon-conjugated polymer and metal-conjugated polymer-metal structures), mixed analog and digital, etc.","It should be noted that the various functions or processes disclosed herein may be described as data and\/or instructions embodied in various computer-readable media, in terms of their behavioral, register transfer, logic component, transistor, layout geometries, and\/or other characteristics. Computer-readable media in which such formatted data and\/or instructions may be embodied include, but are not limited to, non-volatile storage media in various forms (e.g., optical, magnetic or semiconductor storage media) and carrier waves that may be used to transfer such formatted data and\/or instructions through wireless, optical, or wired signaling media or any combination thereof. Examples of transfers of such formatted data and\/or instructions by carrier waves include, but are not limited to, transfers (uploads, downloads, e-mail, etc.) over the Internet and\/or other computer networks via one or more data transfer protocols (e.g., HTTP, FTP, SMTP, etc.). When received within a computer system via one or more computer-readable media, such data and\/or instruction-based expressions of components and\/or processes under the system described may be processed by a processing entity (e.g., one or more processors) within the computer system in conjunction with execution of one or more other computer programs.","Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the words \u201ccomprise,\u201d \u201ccomprising,\u201d and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in a sense of \u201cincluding, but not limited to.\u201d Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally, the words \u201cherein,\u201d \u201chereunder,\u201d \u201cabove,\u201d \u201cbelow,\u201d and words of similar import refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word \u201cor\u201d is used in reference to a list of two or more items, that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word: any of the items in the list, all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.","The above description of illustrated embodiments of the systems and methods is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and methods to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of, and examples for, the systems components and methods are described herein for illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the systems, components and methods, as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. The teachings of the systems and methods provided herein can be applied to other processing systems and methods, not only for the systems and methods described above.","The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. These and other changes can be made to the systems and methods in light of the above detailed description.","In general, in the following claims, the terms used should not be construed to limit the systems and methods to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims, but should be construed to include all processing systems that operate under the claims. Accordingly, the systems and methods are not limited by the disclosure, but instead the scope of the systems and methods is to be determined entirely by the claims.","While certain aspects of the systems and methods are presented below in certain claim forms, the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the systems and methods in any number of claim forms. For example, while only one aspect of the systems and methods may be recited as embodied in machine-readable medium, other aspects may likewise be embodied in machine-readable medium. Accordingly, the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the systems and methods."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0003","num":"0002"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 12A","FIG. 12D"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 19"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
