---
title: Data mining and logic checking tools
abstract: Data mining and logic-checking tools provided by a service to a client organization enable fractal data comparison and analysis and a logic-based data derivation. The tools are configured to interface with websites which have data that typically is 1) required and missing from a client organization's database, 2) used to validate pre-existing data in a user's database, or 3) used to derive new data for a user's database. For data acquisition, the tools interface with sources of data which, typically, do not offer an application programming interface (API) for non-human access to the data. The tools may execute routines to validate the acquired data to ensure its completeness and logical accuracy as well as enrich the data with data from other sources or data that is derived from the acquired data. The processed data is organized and transformed into specified end states and routed to appropriate recipients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361656&OS=09361656&RS=09361656
owner: 
number: 09361656
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130109
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/584,483 filed Jan. 9, 2012 entitled \u201cData Gathering and Data Re-Presentation Tool\u201d and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61\/584,497 filed Jan. 9, 2012 entitled \u201cData Mining and Logic Checking Tool\u201d the disclosure of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety with the same effect as if set forth at length.","The need for creditors to present debtors' loan transaction ledgers or histories in a presentable, understandable, transferrable format is a common challenge. Unfortunately, such data, as presented by most conventional systems such as creditor loan accounting systems, is very code-intensive and not articulated for consumption by non-technical recipients.","This Background is provided to introduce a brief context for the Summary and Detailed Description that follow. This Background is not intended to be an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter nor be viewed as limiting the claimed subject matter to implementations that solve any or all of the disadvantages or problems presented above.","Data mining and logic-checking tools provided by a service to a client organization enable fractal data comparison and analysis and a logic-based data derivation. The tools are configured to interface with websites which have data that typically is 1) required and missing from a client organization's database, 2) used to validate pre-existing data in a user's database, or 3) used to derive new data for a user's database. For data acquisition, the tools interface with sources of data which, typically, do not offer an application programming interface (API) for non-human access to the data. The tools may execute routines to validate the acquired data to ensure its completeness and logical accuracy as well as enrich the data with data from other sources or data that is derived from the acquired data. The processed data is organized and transformed into specified end states and routed to appropriate recipients in the client organization.","This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.","Like reference numerals indicate like elements in the drawings. Elements are not drawn to scale unless otherwise indicated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","105","110","115","115","110","115","120"]},"The client organization  will generally support a number of end users working on various client devices such as laptops, terminals, personal computers (PCs), and the like. A representative end user and a client device are respectively indicated by reference numerals  and . The client device  may couple to the network  through a gateway  or similar device. One or more proprietary databases  are located in the client organization  or are otherwise associated with the organization, for example using remote or cloud-based data storage paradigms. The databases  typically contain financial data such as loan transaction ledgers or histories.","Third party databases  (i.e., databases which are not proprietary to the client organization ) are also part of the environment  and accessible to the service  over the network . The third party databases  may, in some instances, contain data that has relevance to the client organization  as described in more detail below. An exemplary third party database is one associated with the National Data Center (NDC). Similarly, the service  may also access third party websites  over the network . In some cases the third party websites may expose data that is relevant to the client organization . An exemplary third party website includes PACER (Public Access to Court Electronic Records).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["110","115","205","210","125","130","215","220","125","215","215"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","205","105"]},"In this illustrative example, as shown, the set  includes an automated tool for interfacing with databases of multiple systems (as indicated by reference numeral ). The set  further includes an automated tool for recognizing and parsing of data and categorizing into \u201cgeneric\u201d transaction types (). The set  further includes an automated tool for editing and validating recognized, translated, and derived data (). The set  further includes an automated tool for identifying execution requirements to enrich acquired data with data from other sources and editing, validating, and logic-checking other acquired data (). The set  further includes an automated tool for deriving data to fill gaps of required presentation data (). The set  further includes an automated tool for re-organizing data and transforming data into end-state formats (). The set  further includes an automated tool for formatting and routing of output ().",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["305","405","410","415","420"]},"In one particular example using tool , data of interest is stored in the client organization's proprietary database such as one associated with a financial service provider, for example, the Mortgage Servicing Package (MSP) offered by Lender Processing Services (LPS). The service  () navigates to the client organization's VPN using specifications provided in a client navigation table entry that is accessible by the service per agreement between the service and the client organization. The service  logs into the VPN using specifications provided in a client security table entry. Upon verification of VPN access, the service  navigates to the client's MSP web service gateway, again using specifications provided in the client navigation table entry.","Upon verification by the MSP web service gateway, the service  logs into the web service active channel using data from the client security table entry. Upon verification of web service active channel access, the service  constructs web service calls as needed to retrieve data for a customer view loan history using specifications from one or more client view data source table entries, and the constructed web service calls are transmitted to the client organization. In response to the web service calls, the service  receives web service return data which is stored.","In this example, using the returned data from the MSP system, as described above, additional data is acquired from the PACER system (i.e., a third party website  in ) including a case number and applicable Federal District Court. The service  navigates to the appropriate PACER web pages using specifications from the client's navigation table entry. The service  logs onto PACER using the client security table entry. The service  captures one or more pages and, after validating a correct destination from the client's navigation table entry, downloads the captured data to storage.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["310","505","510","515"]},"Continuing with the example above, using tool , the data acquired from the PACER website is parsed. In this example, the pertinent data from PACER is a bankruptcy filing date (referred to here as the PACER BK FILED DATE). Here, the tool  employs the table of possible source data transaction types  to verify that certain data is present in the HTML (HyperText Markup Language) code from the PACER pages. More specifically, the verification comprises \u201cU.S. Bankruptcy Court\u201d being in the first line, \u201cDistrict of \u201d being in the second line, and \u201cBankruptcy Petition #:\u201d being in the third line (where the blank spaces are filled in with data acquired from the client MSP system). If the data in those three lines is verified, then the tool  locates the \u201cDate filed:\u201d string on the fourth line of the HTML code and captures the text following the string, for example \u201c05\/18\/2012\u201d as the PACER BK FILED DATE. The table of generic translation of source data transaction types to external presentation transaction types  is utilized, in this example, to tag the PACER BK FILED DATE as DATE. The table of external presentation specifications  is utilized, in this example, to tag the PACER BK FILED DATE as OUT=YYYYMMDD (i.e., year, month, day).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["315","605","610","615","620","625"]},"Continuing with the example above, the functionality  exposed by tool  validates that the acquired PACER BK FILED DATE (which is specified in a client data format table as MM\/DD\/YYYY) consists of NN\/NN\/NNNN (i.e., 10 positions, all numeric and special characters) and converts the acquired data into date format. The functionality  validates that the acquired BK FILED DATE meets each of the following:\n\n","The functionality  validates that the acquired BK FILED DATE meets each of the following:\n\n","The functionality  validates the acquired date against all client view data specifications (from a client view data source(s) table entry). Here, the PACER BK FILED DATE must be less than or equal to 4 years prior to the data acquisition processing date. If not, then a flag is set to \u201cLATE-IN-PLAN.\u201d If any of validations performed by functionalities , , and  fails, then the PACER BK FILED DATE is tagged as Failed Validation. If each of the validations is passed, then the value of the PACER BK FILED DATE is written to the BK Filed Date Field.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["320","705","710"]},"In an illustrative example, in the case of the PACER acquired data showing a Debtor Discharged Date or Co-Debtor Discharged date being present, Docket Report log entries are searched for \u201cdischarged\u201d text. Log entries which include such text are searched to determine if acquired data from the MSP includes a Secured Creditor in the log text. If any log entries are found with a matching MSP acquired Secured Creditor, then a flag is set to \u201cDischarged.\u201d If no log entries are found with MSP acquired Secured Creditor, then a flag is set to \u201cPossibly Discharged Entry Requires Review.\u201d If no log entries are found with matching text \u201cdischarged,\u201d a flag is set to \u201cPACER Discharged Status No Discharge Docket Events.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["325","805","810","815"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":["1. For the latest transaction including an amount applied to (or debited from) suspense, write MSP acquired Suspense Balance as the Ending Suspense Balance for the transaction.","2. For each prior transaction including an amount applied to (or debited from) suspense, use the next following transaction and, Subtract the amount of any deposit to suspense or add the amount of any debit to suspense in that transaction to the Ending Suspense Balance for that transaction and write the sum to Ending Suspense Balance for the immediately preceding transaction and tag Ending Suspense Balance element written as Derived by Running Suspense Balance End-to-Beginning routine.","3. Reiterate the above steps until all transactions have been processed.","4. When all transactions including suspense deposits or debits have been processed, write the Ending Suspense Balance from the earliest transaction to Derived Period Reported Beginning Suspense Balance.","5. Validate the MSP acquired Period Reported Beginning Suspense Balance equals Derived Period Reported Beginning Suspense Balance.\n        \n        "]}}}},"For deriving missing transaction data, an example includes a transaction Total Amount=2,000.00; Principal Applied=150.00; Interest Applied=1,200.00; Escrow Applied=100.00; Restricted Escrow Applied=50.00; Suspense Applied=0.00. Using the routine described above, this transaction would be tagged as Transaction Out-of-Balance. Such tag invokes an initiation of a Review Running Balances Routine where iteration is performed as necessary. This routine audits each running balance at each transaction point to determine if each transaction and each running balance cross-foot. The routine iterates through and tallies discrepancies and makes them running \u201cfinds\u201d and computes the possibility of allocating the \u201cfinds\u201d against the out-of-balance conditions to work-down the out-of-balance amounts and allocate them to the non-cross-footing transactions. All allocations are tagged as Derived by Review Running Balance Routine.","For deriving missing \u201cstatus\u201d data, an example includes the PACER BK FILED DATE having been tagged as Failed Validation through application of the tool , as described above. If the MSP BK FILED passes the validation routines, then a Derive BK Filed Date From MSP BK Filed Date routine is executed where the MSP BK FILED DATE value is written to the BK Filed Date field.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["330","905","910","915"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0008-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0009","list-style":"none"},"li":["i. .pdf (Adobe Systems Portable Document Format)","ii. Microsoft Office Word formats\u2014.doc, .docm, .docx, .dot, .dotx, .dotm","iii. Microsoft Access formats\u2014.adp, .adn, .accdb, .accdt, .mdb, .mda, .mdt, .mdw, .mde, .accde, .mam, .maq, .maq, .mar, .mat, .maf","iv. Microsoft Office Excel formats\u2014.xls, .xlsx, .xlt, .xltx, .xltm, .csv, .xla, .xlam, .xlb, .xlsb, .xlc, .xld, .xlk, .xll, .xlm, .xlsm","v. .xml\u2014Extensible Markup Language","vi. .rtf\u2014Rich Text Format","vii. .txt\u2014plain text"]}}}},"Non-standard outputs include client-specified and\/or proprietary format specifications. Various adjustments of the editing, validity-checking and logic-checking routines instantiated by the tools as described above may be performed to ensure compliance with the client specifications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["335","1005","1010","1015"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 1"],"b":["1100","210","105"]},"In this illustrative example, as shown, the set  includes an automated tool for interfacing with websites (as indicated by reference numeral ). The set  further includes an automated tool for downloading and capturing website page(s) (). The set  further includes an automated tool for parsing downloaded and captured data (). The set  further includes an automated tool for editing and validating recognized, translated, and derived data (). The set  further includes an automated tool for identifying execution requirements to enrich acquired data with data from other sources and editing, validating, and logic-checking other required data (). The set  further includes an automated tool for deriving data to fill gaps of required presentation data (). The set  further includes an automated tool for executing fractal analysis and logical comparison routines related to specific activities (). The set  further includes an automated tool for determining disposition of end states (). The set  further includes an automated tool for re-organizing data and transforming data into end-state formats (). The set  further includes an automated tool for formatting and routing of output ()",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1105","150","1","1205","1210","1215","1220"]},"In one particular example using tool , case data associated with a bankruptcy proceeding is acquired from PACER. The service  () navigates to PACER and to the appropriate PACER page(s) using specifications provided in a client navigation table entry. The service  verifies that the expected page is reached using specifications from the client navigation table entry. If an expected page is not reached, the service  terminates navigation and re-initiates, as appropriate. If an expected page is reached, the service  proceeds with log-in to PACER using the client security table entry. The service verifies that the expected page is reached using specifications from the client navigation table entry. If an expected page is not reached, the service  terminates navigation and re-initiates, as appropriate.","If an expected page is reached, the service  proceeds with presentation type recognition. Here, the service  verifies an expected page data presentation type using specifications from a data source attributes table entry. If the data presentation type is not validated, then a Recognize Presentation Format routine is initiated as follows:\n\n","If the data presentation type is validated, the service  proceeds to match the presentation type to a capture\/download protocol using specifications from a data source presentation type capture protocol table entry, and initiates capture\/download accordingly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1110","1305","1310"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0013-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0014","list-style":"none"},"li":["i. Metadata\u2014including semantic meta-information, Charset information, Document Type Definition (DTD) and other metadata","ii. Rendered item data\u2014style information like Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), diagramation (image size attributes, visual specifications)","iii. Scripts","iv. HTML tables, HTML, DHTML (dynamic HTML), MHTML (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension HTLM) or XHTML (Extensible HTML)","v. Interactive data","vi. Images\u2014.png, .jpg, .tif, .gif, and others","vii. Linked files","viii. Comments"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1115","1405","1410","1415","1420","1425","1430","1435","1440"]},"In an example using tool , the table of source text and equivalent recognition triggers and codes specifies Begin-delimiters and End-delimiters. Here, HTML data from PACER is verified by a routine as including \u201cU.S. Bankruptcy Court\u201d being in the first line, \u201cDistrict of \u201d being in the second line, and \u201cBankruptcy Petition #:\u201d being in the third line (where the blank spaces are filled in with data acquired from the client MSP system. If the data is not verified, then the routine is aborted and a flag is set on the dataset as \u201cUNVERIFIED DATA CAPTURE\u201d and tool  is reinitiated to navigate to PACER anew.","If the data is verified, a search is performed for \u201cDate filed:\u201d on the fourth line of the HTML using a data dictionary coordinates table entry. If the target text is not found, the entire page is searched for target data. If the target data is still not found, a flag is set on the dataset as \u201cUNVERIFIED DATA CAPTURE\u2014REQUIRED DATA NOT PRESENT\u201d and the tool  is reinitiated to navigate to PACER anew.","If the target data is found, the tool searches for text following the found target text in the format NN\/NN\/NNNN (i.e., 10 positions, all numeric and special characters) using a data dictionary attributes table entry. If the target data is not found, a flag is set on the dataset as \u201cUNVERIFIED DATA CAPTURE\u2014REQUIRED DATA NOT PRESENT\u201d and the tool  is reinitiated to navigate to PACER anew. If the target data is found but it does not match expected attributes, then the data is stored as PACER BK FILED DATE and a flag is set as \u201cINVALID FORMAT AND POSITION.\u201d If the target data is found and matches expected attributes, the data is stored as the PACER BK FILED DATE.","If the target text is found, the tools searches for text following the found target text in the format NN\/NN\/NNNN. If the follow-on text is not found a flag is set on the dataset as \u201cUNVERIFIED DATA CAPTURE\u2014REQUIRED DATA NOT PRESENT\u201d and the tool  is reinitiated to navigate to PACER anew. If the follow-on text is found but does not match expected attributes, the data is stored as the PACER BK FILED DATE and a flag is set as \u201cINVALID FORMAT.\u201d If the follow-on text is found and matches expected attributes, the data is stored as the PACER BK FILED DATE.","In another example, the PACER BK FILED DATE is specified to have attributes MM\/DD\/YYYY and the functionality  applies verification criteria for component values present as follows:\n\n","In an example using the table of categorizations into \u201cgeneric\u201d transaction types for presentation to external sources , if a data element is verified, the service  reformats a stored data element value to a specified format using a data dictionary attributes table entry. In this example, the PACER BK FILED DATE element format attribute is DATE-MM\/DD\/YYYY. Thus the value in the PACER BK FILED DATE field is reformatted from text \u201805\/18\/2012\u2019 to the Julian date \u20182456430.500000\u2019","In an example using the functionality  for storage of data, stored data element flags are reviewed:\n\n","In an example using the functionality  for storage to alternate handling table of unexpected data elements:\n\n","In an example using the functionality  for resolving unexpected data elements:\n\n","In an example using the table of external presentation specifications , if a dataset flag is set as \u201cVERIFIED\u201d, then alternate element attribute variable flags are applied, using external presentation specifications flags from data dictionary attributes table entry, to data elements in a dataset.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0118"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["1120","1505","1510","1515","1520","1525"]},"In an example using tool , the functionality  uses specifications from an order data parameters table entry:\n\n","Continuing with the example, the functionality  uses specifications from an order client-level data parameters entry table:\n\n","Continuing with the example, the functionality  uses specifications from both an order client-level data parameters entry table and specifications from an order data parameters entry table:\n\n","Continuing with the example, the functionality  uses specifications from an order data parameters table entry:\n\n","Continuing with the example, the functionality  applies similar validity-checking as with the functionalities , , , and  with regard to data elements produced using tool , as described in more detail below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0136"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1125","1605","1610"]},"In an illustrative example, in the case of an OUT OF RANGE FOR CLIENT ORDER a secondary data source is required for use in data verification, data acquisition, or for additional components for data derivation. Such secondary data source may be provided by a third party database  () using the tools and routines described in the text accompanying .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0138"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIGS. 3 and 8"],"b":["1130","1705","1710","1715","1130","325"]},"In an example using the third party database  (), the functionality  implements the following routine:\n\n","Continuing with the example, in the case of missing trustee payment transactions, the functionality  implements the following routine:\n\n","Continuing with the example, in the case where client data has the data element Claim Priority missing from PACER data, the functionality  implements the following routine:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0164"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":["1135","1805","1810","1815","1820","1825","1830"]},"In an example using tool , non-passed data fields indicating failed parameters may not necessarily indicate failed data for dates. Accordingly, the functionality  implements the following routine:\n\n","Continuing with the example, functionality  implements the following routine:\n\n","Continuing with the example, functionality  implements the following routine:\n\n","Continuing with the example, functionality  implements the following routine:\n\n","Continuing with the example, functionality  implements a routine in which the results from application of the routines implemented by functionalities , , , and  (i.e., flags and tags) and adjusted Routine Definition Attributes validation routines are employed to re-execute Validation until end-state parameters, using end-state-applicable Routine Definition Attributes Criteria table entry, are met. Functionality  implements a routine in which Results which are acceptable, but include gaps to required confidence using end-state-applicable Routine Definition Attributes Criteria table entry, are flagged using end-state-applicable Routine Definition Attributes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0197"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 1"],"b":["1140","1905","125","1905","1910","1915"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0198"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIGS. 3 and 9"],"b":["1145","2005","2010","2015","1145","330"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0199"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIGS. 3 and 10"],"b":["1150","2105","2110","2115","1150","335"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0200"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["2210","2215","2220","2230","2235","2235","2250","2255"]},"Several aspects of computing systems will now be presented with reference to various apparatus and methods described in the foregoing detailed description and illustrated in the accompanying drawing by various blocks, modules, components, circuits, steps, processes, algorithms, etc. (collectively referred to as \u201celements\u201d). These elements may be implemented using electronic hardware, computer software, or any combination thereof. Whether such elements are implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. By way of example, an element, or any portion of an element, or any combination of elements may be implemented with a \u201cprocessing system\u201d that includes one or more processors. Examples of processors include microprocessors, microcontrollers, digital signal processors (DSPs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), programmable logic devices (PLDs), state machines, gated logic, discrete hardware circuits, and other suitable hardware configured to perform the various functionality described throughout this disclosure. One or more processors in the processing system may execute software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions, instruction sets, code, code segments, program code, programs, subprograms, software modules, applications, software applications, software packages, routines, subroutines, objects, executables, threads of execution, procedures, functions, etc., whether referred to as software, firmware, middleware, microcode, hardware description language, or otherwise. The software may reside on a computer-readable media. Computer-readable media may include, by way of example, a magnetic storage device (e.g., hard disk, floppy disk, magnetic strip), an optical disk (e.g., compact disk (CD), digital versatile disk (DVD)), a smart card, a flash memory device (e.g., card, stick, key drive), random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), a register, a removable disk, and any other suitable media for storing or transmitting software. The computer-readable media may be resident in the processing system, external to the processing system, or distributed across multiple entities including the processing system. Computer-readable media may be embodied in a computer-program product. By way of example, a computer-program product may include a computer-readable media in packaging materials. Those skilled in the art will recognize how best to implement the described functionalities presented throughout this disclosure depending on the particular application and the overall design constraints imposed on the overall system.","Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and\/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 22"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
