---
title: System and method for data loss prevention across heterogeneous communications platforms
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes activating a cross-platform DLP policy for enforcement against a plurality of users on each of a plurality of heterogeneous communications platforms. The method further includes monitoring communications of the plurality of users on each of the plurality of communications platforms for violations of the cross-platform DLP policy. The method also includes, responsive to a detected violation of the cross-platform DLP policy by at least one user on at least one communications platform, dynamically acquiring context information for the detected violation using information associated with the detected violation. In addition, the method includes publishing violation information to one or more designated users. The violation information includes at least a portion of the information associated with the detected violation and at least a portion of the context information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578060&OS=09578060&RS=09578060
owner: Dell Software Inc.
number: 09578060
owner_city: Aliso Viejo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131125
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This patent application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 13\/906,241, 13\/906,246, and 13\/906,255. U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 13\/906,241, 13\/906,246, and 13\/906,255 were filed on May 30, 2013 and claim priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/658,034 filed on Jun. 11, 2012. U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/658,034 and U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 13\/906,241, 13\/906,246, and 13\/906,255 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.","Technical Field","The present invention relates generally to data security and more particularly, but not by way of limitation, to systems and methods for data loss prevention.","History Of Related Art","Enterprise communications systems such as, for example, email systems (e.g., systems based on MICROSOFT EXCHANGE), sometimes provide administrators with certain tools for setting up automated polices. These policies can help ensure that users comply with standard operating policies or other governance-related requirements. The policies are often specified as rules that define what a user or group of users should or should not do on the system. When the system detects a violation of such policies, the violation can be logged. Each policy, however, is generally platform-specific and is thus typically limited in scope to a particular communications system on which the policy is specified and implemented. For example, an organization may be utilizing different solutions for email, instant messaging, social media, content management, etc. To the extent any native policy support is provided, each enterprise communications system may provide incompatible tools, policy formats, and enforcement actions. Many enterprise communications systems provide no native policy support at all.","In addition, existing policies that are specified can be quite rigid. For example, one policy may be to not send large email attachments. The policy may be specified using an arbitrary maximum attachment size such as, for example, ten megabytes. In practice, however, a given user may send numerous email attachments that are slightly under the maximum attachment size. Although such a user may be literally complying with the policy by not sending email attachments larger than ten megabytes, the user may be violating the spirit of the policy. The user's numerous email attachments of just under ten megabytes may cause the very adverse effects that the policy is designed to prevent. Violations of the spirit of a given policy cannot generally be detected.","Other policies sometimes require interpretation in order to determine a violation. For example, a company policy may be to not email credit-card numbers. An email system, for example, may then implement the policy by searching for a string of numbers that conforms to a credit-card number format (e.g., a string of numbers of a particular length). According to this example, however, benign numbers that are the same length as a credit-card number could trigger a false positive. In general, when reporting a violation, there is not sufficient information available to enable adequate identification of false positives.","Moreover, as the value and use of information continues to increase, individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes, compiles, stores, and\/or communicates information or data for business, personal, or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications, information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled, how the information is handled, how much information is processed, stored, or communicated, and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed, stored, or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing, airline reservations, enterprise data storage, or global communications. In addition, information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process, store, and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems, data storage systems, and networking systems.","In one embodiment, a method is performed for each cross-platform data loss prevention (DLP) policy of at least one cross-platform DLP policy. The method includes, on a computer system comprising at least one server computer, activating the cross-platform DLP policy for enforcement against a plurality of users on each of a plurality of heterogeneous communications platforms. The method further includes the computer system monitoring communications of the plurality of users on each of the plurality of communications platforms for violations of the cross-platform DLP policy. The method also includes, responsive to a detected violation of the cross-platform DLP policy by at least one user on at least one communications platform, the computer system dynamically acquiring context information for the detected violation using information associated with the detected violation. In addition, the method includes the computer system publishing violation information to one or more designated users. The violation information includes at least a portion of the information associated with the detected violation and at least a portion of the context information.","In one embodiment, an information handling system includes a processing unit. The at least one processing unit is operable to implement a method that is performed for each cross-platform data loss prevention (DLP) policy of at least one cross-platform DLP policy. The method includes activating the cross-platform DLP policy for enforcement against a plurality of users on each of a plurality of heterogeneous communications platforms. The method further includes monitoring communications of the plurality of users on each of the plurality of communications platforms for violations of the cross-platform DLP policy. The method also includes, responsive to a detected violation of the cross-platform DLP policy by at least one user on at least one communications platform, dynamically acquiring context information for the detected violation using information associated with the detected violation. In addition, the method includes publishing violation information to one or more designated users. The violation information includes at least a portion of the information associated with the detected violation and at least a portion of the context information.","In one embodiment, a computer-program product includes a non-transitory computer-usable medium having computer-readable program code embodied therein. The computer-readable program code is adapted to be executed to implement a method that is performed for each cross-platform data loss prevention (DLP) policy of at least one cross-platform DLP policy. The method includes activating the cross-platform DLP policy for enforcement against a plurality of users on each of a plurality of heterogeneous communications platforms. The method further includes monitoring communications of the plurality of users on each of the plurality of communications platforms for violations of the cross-platform DLP policy. The method also includes, responsive to a detected violation of the cross-platform DLP policy by at least one user on at least one communications platform, dynamically acquiring context information for the detected violation using information associated with the detected violation. In addition, the method includes publishing violation information to one or more designated users. The violation information includes at least a portion of the information associated with the detected violation and at least a portion of the context information.","This disclosure describes several non-limiting examples of processes for collecting information or data from multiple sources and analyzing the information to classify the data and to extract or determine additional information based on the collected data. The data sources can be internal to the business and\/or external to the business. For example, the data sources can include sales databases, business or internal email systems, non-business or external email systems, social networking accounts, inventory databases, file directories, enterprise systems, customer relationship management (CRM) systems, organizational directories, collaboration systems (e.g., SharePoint\u2122 servers), etc.","As used herein, the term \u201cbusiness,\u201d in addition to having its ordinary meaning, is intended to include any type of organization or entity. For example, a business can include a charitable organization, a governmental organization, an educational institution, or any other entity that may have one or more sources of data to analyze. Further, the user of any of the above terms may be used interchangeably unless explicitly used otherwise or unless the context makes clear otherwise. In addition, as used herein, the term \u201cdata\u201d generally refers to electronic data or any type of data that can be accessed by a computing system.","I. Systems and Methods for Collecting, Classifying, and Querying Data","Example of a Networked Computing Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","102","102","102","104"]},"The computing environment  includes a Business Insights on Messaging (BIM) system . Using the BIM system , a user can examine the data available to a business regardless of where the data was generated or is stored. Further, in some embodiments, the user can use the BIM system  to identify trends and\/or metadata associated with the data available to the BIM system . In certain embodiments, the BIM system  can access the data from internal data sources , external data sources , or a combination of the two. The data that can be accessed from the internal data sources  can include any data that is stored within the computing environment  or is accessed by a computing system that is associated with the computing environment . For example, the data may include information stored in employee created files, log files, archived files, internal emails, outgoing emails, received emails, received files, data downloaded from an external network or the Internet, etc. The type of data is not limited and may depend on the organization or business associated with the computing environment . For example, the data can include sales numbers, contact information, vendor costs, product designs, meeting minutes, the identity of file creators, the identity of file owners, the identity of users who have accessed a file or are authorized to access a file, etc.","The data that can be accessed from the external data sources  can include any data that is stored outside of the computing environment  and is publicly accessible or otherwise accessible to the BIM system . For example, the data can include data from social networking sites, customer sites, Internet sites, or any other data source that is publicly accessible or which the BIM system  has been granted access. In some cases, a subset of the data may be unavailable to the BIM system . For example, portions of the computing environment  may be configured for private use.","The internal data sources  can include any type of computing system that is part of or associated with the computing environment  and is available to the BIM system . These computing systems can include database systems or repositories, servers (e.g., authentication servers, file servers, email servers, collaboration servers), clients, mobile computing systems (including e.g., tablets, laptops, smartphones, etc.), virtual machines, CRM systems, directory services, such as lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) systems, and the like. Further, in some cases, the internal data sources  can include the clients  and . The external data sources  can include any type of computing system that is not associated with the computing environment , but is accessible to the BIM system . For example, the external data sources  can include any computing systems associated with cloud services, social media services, hosted applications, etc.","The BIM system  can communicate with the internal data sources  via the intranet . The intranet  can include any type of wired and\/or wireless network that enables computing systems associated with the computing environment  to communicate with each other. For example, the intranet  can include any type of a LAN, a WAN, an Ethernet network, a wireless network, a cellular network, a virtual private network (VPN) and an ad hoc network. In some embodiments, the intranet  may include an extranet that is accessible by customers or other users who are external to the business or organization associated with the computing environment .","The BIM system  can communicate with the external data sources  via the network . The network  can include any type of wired, wireless, or cellular network that enables one or more computing systems associated with the computing environment  to communicate with the external data sources  and\/or any computing system that is not associated with the computing environment . In some cases, the network  can include the Internet.","A user can access the BIM system  using any computing system that can communicate with the BIM system . For example, the user can access the BIM system  using the client , which can communicate with the BIM system  via the intranet , the client , which can communicate via a direct communication connection with the BIM system , or the client , which can communicate with the BIM system  via the network . As illustrated in , in some embodiments the client  may not be associated with the computing environment . In such embodiments, the client  and\/or a user associated with the client  may be granted access to the BIM system . The clients , , and  may include any type of computing system including, for example, a laptop, desktop, smartphone, tablet, or the like. In some embodiments, the BIM system  may determine whether the user is authorized to access the BIM system  as described in further detail below.","The BIM system  can include a data collection system , a data classification system , and a BIM access system . The data collection system  can collect data or information from one or more data sources for processing by the BIM system . In some embodiments, the data collection system  can reformat the collected data to facilitate processing by the BIM system . Further, in some cases, the data collection system  may reformat collected data into a consistent or defined format that enables the comparison or processing of data that is of the same or a similar type, but which may be formatted differently because, for example, the data is obtained from different sources. The data collection system  is described in more detail below with reference to .","The data classification system  can store and classify the data obtained by the data collection system . In addition to predefined classifications, the data classification system  can identify and develop new classifications and associations between data using, for example, heuristics and probabilistic algorithms. The data classification system  is described in more detail below with reference to .","The BIM access system  can provide users with access to the BIM system . In some embodiments, the BIM access system  determines whether a user is authorized to access the BIM system . The BIM access system  enables a user to query one or more databases (not shown) of the data classification system  to obtain access to the data collected by the data collection system . Further, the BIM access system  enables a user to mine the data and\/or to extract metadata by, for example, creating queries based on the data and the data classifications. Advantageously, in certain embodiments, because the data classification system  can classify data obtained from a number of data sources, more complex queries can be created compared to a system that can only query its own database or a single data source.","Additionally, in certain embodiments, the BIM access system  can enable users to create, share, and access query packages. As described in greater detail below, a query package can encapsulate one or more pre-defined queries, one or more visualizations of queried data, and other package attributes. When a user selects a query package, the query package can be executed in a determined manner in similar fashion to other queries. As an additional advantage, in some embodiments, because the data classification system  can use heuristics and probabilistic algorithms to develop and modify data classifications over time, user queries are not limited to a set of predefined search variables. The BIM access system  is described in more detail below with reference to .","Example Implementation of a BIM System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["130","130","132","120","122","132","202","204","206","208"]},"Generally, the collection engine  may access the internal data sources  thereby providing the BIM system  with access to data that is stored by or generated by the internal data sources . This data can include any data that may be created, accessed, or received by a user or in response to the actions of a user who is associated with the computing environment . Further, in some embodiments, the collection engine  can access the external data sources  thereby providing the BIM system  with access to data from the external data sources . In some embodiments, the data can include metadata. For example, supposing that the collection engine  accesses a file server, the data can include metadata associated with the files stored on the file server, such as the file name, file author, file owner, time created, last time edited, etc.","In some cases, a number of internal data sources  and\/or external data sources  may require a user or system to be identified and\/or authenticated before access to the data source is granted. Authentication may be required for a number of reasons. For example, the data source may provide individual accounts to users, such as a social networking account, email account, or collaboration system account. As another example, the data source may provide different features based on the authorization level of a user. For example, a billing system may be configured to allow all employees of an organization to view invoices, but to only allow employees of the accounting department to modify invoices.","For data sources that require authentication or identification of a specific user, the access manager  can facilitate access to the data sources. The access manager  can manage and control credentials for accessing the data sources. For example, the access manager  can store and manage user names, passwords, account identifiers, certificates, tokens, and any other information that can be used to access accounts associated with one or more internal data sources  and\/or external data sources . For instance, the access manager  may have access to credentials associated with a business's Facebook\u2122 or Twitter\u2122 account. As another example, the access manager may have access to credentials associated with an LDAP directory, a file management system, or employee work email accounts.","In some embodiments, the access manager  may have credentials or authentication information associated with a master or super user account enabling access to some or all of the user accounts without requiring credentials or authentication information associated with each of the users. In some cases, the collection engine  can use the access manager  to facilitate accessing internal data sources  and\/or external data sources .","The business logic engine  can include any system that can modify or transform the data collected by the collection engine  into a standardized format. In some embodiments, the standardized format may differ based on the data source accessed and\/or the type of data accessed. For example, the business logic engine  may format data associated with emails, data associated with files stored at the computing environment , data associated with web pages, and data associated with research files differently. However, each type of data may be formatted consistently. Thus, for example, data associated with product design files may be transformed or abstracted into a common format regardless of whether the product design files are of the same type. As a second example, suppose that the business logic engine  is configured to record time using a 24-hour clock format. In this second example, if one email application records the time an email was sent using a 24-hour clock format, and a second email application uses a 12-hour clock format, the business logic engine  may reformat the data from the second email application to use a 24-hour clock format","In some embodiments, a user may define the format for processing and storing different types of data. In other embodiments, the business logic engine  may identify a standard format to use for each type of data based on, for example, the format that is most common among similar types of data sources, the format that reduces the size of the information, or any other basis that can be used to decide a data format.","The business logic security manager  can include any system that can implement security and data access policies for data accessed by the collection engine . In some embodiments, the business logic security manager  may apply the security and data access policies to data before the data is collected as part of a determination of whether to collect particular data. For example, an organization may designate a private folder or directory for each employee and the data access policies may include a policy to not access any files or data stored in the private directory. Alternatively, or in addition, the business logic security manager  may apply the security and data access policies to data after it is collected by the collection engine . Further, in some cases, the business logic security manager  may apply the security and data access policies to the abstracted and\/or reformatted data produced by the business logic engine . For example, suppose the organization associated with the computing environment  has adopted a policy of not collecting emails designated as personal. In this example, the business logic security manager  may examine email to determine whether it is addressed to an email address designated as personal (e.g., email addressed to family members) and if the email is identified as personal, the email may be discarded by the data collection system  or not processed any further by the BIM system .","In some embodiments, the business logic security manager  may apply a set of security and data access policies to any data or metadata provided to the classification system  for processing and storage. These security and data access policies can include any policy for regulating the storage and access of data obtained or generated by the data collection system . For example, the security and data access policies may identify the users who can access the data provided to the data classification system . The determination of which users can access the data may be based on the type of data. The business logic security manager  may tag the data with an identity of the users, or class or role of users (e.g., mid-level managers and more senior) who can access the data. As another example, of a security and data access policy, the business logic security manager  may determine how long the data can be stored by the data classification system  based on, for example, the type of data or the source of the data.","After the data collection system  has collected and, in some cases, processed the data obtained from the internal data sources  and\/or the external data sources , the data may be provided to the data classification system  for further processing and storage. The data classification system  can include a data repository engine , a task scheduler , an a priori classification engine , an a posteriori classification engine , a heuristics engine  and a set of databases .","The data repository engine  can include any system for storing and indexing the data received from the data collection system . The data repository engine  can store the data, including any generated indexes, at the set of databases , which can include one or more databases or repositories for storing data. In some cases, the set of databases  can store data in separate databases based on any factor including, for example, the type of data, the source of data, or the security level or authorization class associated with the data and the class of users who can access the data.","In some implementations, the set of databases  can dynamically expand and, in some cases, the set of databases  may be dynamically structured. For example, if the data repository engine  receives a new type of data that includes metadata fields not supported by the existing databases of the set of databases , the data repository engine  can create and initialize a new database that includes the metadata fields as part of the set of databases . For instance, suppose the organization associated with the computing environment  creates its first social media account for the organization to expand its marketing initiatives. Although the databases  may have fields for customer information and vendor information, it may not have a field identifying whether a customer or vendor has indicated they \u201clike\u201d or \u201cfollow\u201d the organization on its social media page. The data repository engine  can create a new field in the databases  to store this information and\/or create a new database to capture information extracted from the social media account including information that relates to the organization's customers and vendors.","In certain embodiments, the data repository engine  can create abstractions of and\/or classify the data received from the data collection system  using, for example, the task scheduler , the a priori classification engine , the a posteriori classification engine , and the heuristics engine . The task scheduler  can include any system that can manage the abstraction and classification of the data received from the data collection system . In some embodiments, the task scheduler  can be included as part of the data repository engine .","Data that is to be classified and\/or abstracted can be supplied to the task scheduler . The task scheduler  can supply the data to the a priori classification engine , which can include any system that can classify data based on a set of user-defined, predefined, or predetermined classifications. These classifications may be provided by a user (e.g., an administrator) or may be provided by the developer of the BIM system . Although not limited as such, the predetermined classifications generally include objective classifications that can be determined based on attributes associated with the data. For example, the a priori classification engine  can classify communications based on whether the communication is an email, an instant message, or a voice mail. As a second example, files may be classified based on the file type, such as whether the file is a drawing file (e.g., an AutoCAD\u2122 file), a presentation file (e.g., a PowerPoint\u2122 file), a spreadsheet (e.g., an Excel\u2122 file), a word processing file (e.g., a Word\u2122 file), etc. Although not limited as such, the a priori classification engine  generally classifies data at or substantially near the time of collection by the collection engine . The a priori classification engine  can classify the data prior to the data being stored in the databases . However, in some cases, the data may be stored prior to or simultaneously with the a priori classification engine  classifying the data. The data may be classified based on one or more characteristics or pieces of metadata associated with the data. For example, an email may be classified based on the email address, a domain or provider associated with the email (e.g., a Yahoo\u00ae email address or a corporate email address), or the recipient of the email.","In addition to, or instead of, using the a priori classification engine , the task scheduler  can provide the data to the a posteriori classification engine  for classification or further classification. The a posteriori classification engine  can include any system that can determine trends with respect to the collected data. Although not limited as such, the a posteriori classification engine  generally classifies data after the data has been collected and stored at the databases . However, in some cases, the a posteriori classification engine  can also be used to classify data as it is collected by the collection engine . Data may be processed and classified or reclassified multiple times by the a posteriori classification engine . In some cases, the classification and reclassification of the data occurs on a continuing basis. In other cases, the classification and reclassification of data occurs during specific time periods of events. For example, data may be reclassified each day at midnight or once a week. As another example, data may be reclassified each time one or more of the a posteriori algorithms is modified or after the collection of new data.","In some cases, the a posteriori classification engine  classifies data based on one or more probabilistic algorithms. The probabilistic algorithms may be based on any type of statistical analysis of the collected data. For example, the probabilistic algorithms may be based on Bayesian analysis or probabilities. Further, Bayesian inferences may be used to update the probability estimates calculated by the a posteriori classification engine . In some implementations, the a posteriori classification engine  may use machine learning techniques to optimize or update the a posteriori algorithms. In some embodiments, some of the a posteriori algorithms may determine the probability that a piece or set of data (e.g., an email) should have a particular classification based on an analysis of the data as a whole. Alternatively, or in addition, some of the a posteriori algorithms may determine the probability that a set of data should have a particular classification based on the combination of probabilistic determinations associated with subsets of the data, parameters, or metadata associated with the data (e.g., classifications associated with the content of the email, the recipient of the email, the sender of the email, etc.).","For example, continuing with the email example, one probabilistic algorithm may be based on the combination of the classification or determination of four characteristics associated with the email, which may be used to determine whether to classify the email as a personal email, or non-work related. The first characteristic can include the probability that an email address associated with a participant (e.g., sender, recipient, BCC recipient, etc.) of the email conversation is used by a single employee. This determination may be based on the email address itself (e.g., topic based versus name based email address), the creator of the email address, or any other factor that can be used to determine whether an email address is shared or associated with a particular individual. The second characteristic can include the probability that keywords within the email are not associated with peer-to-peer or work-related communications. For example, terms of endearment and discussion of children and children's activities are less likely to be included in work related communications. The third characteristic can include the probability that the email address is associated with a participant domain or public service provider (e.g., Yahoo\u00ae email or Google\u00ae email) as opposed to a corporate or work email account. The fourth characteristic can include determining the probability that the message or email thread can be classified as conversational as opposed to, for example, formal. For example, a series of quick questions in a thread of emails, the use of a number of slang words, or excessive typographical errors may indicate that an email is likely conversational. The a posteriori classification engine  can use the determined probabilities for the above four characteristics to determine the probability that the email communication is personal as opposed to, for example, work-related, or spam email.","The combination of probabilities may not total 100%. Further, the combination may itself be a probability and the classification can be based on a threshold determination. For example, the threshold may be set such that an email is classified as personal if there is a 90% probability for three of the four above parameters indicating the email is personal (e.g., email address is used by a single employee, the keywords are not typical of peer-to-peer communication, at least some of the participant domains are from known public service providers, and the message thread is conversational).","As another example of the a posteriori classification engine  classifying data, the a posteriori classification engine  can use a probabilistic algorithm to determine whether a participant of an email is a customer. The a posteriori classification engine  can use the participant's identity (e.g., a customer) to facilitate classifying data that is associated with the participant (e.g., emails, files, etc.). To determine whether the participant should be classified as a customer, the a posteriori classification engine  can examiner a number of parameters including a relevant Active Directory Organizational Unit (e.g., sales, support, finance) associated with the participant and\/or other participants in communication with the participant, the participant's presence in forum discussions, etc. In some cases, characteristics used to classify data may be weighted differently as part of the probabilistic algorithm. For example, email domain may be a poor characteristic to classify a participant in some cases because the email domain may be associated with multiple roles. For instance, Microsoft\u00ae may be a partner, a customer, and a competitor.","In some implementations, a user (e.g., an administrator) can define the probabilistic algorithms used by the a posteriori classification engine . For example, suppose customer Y is a customer of business X and that the management of business X is interested in tracking the percentage of communication between business X and customer Y that relates to sales. Further, suppose that a number of employees from business X and a number of employees from business Y are in communication via email. Some of these employees may be in communication to discuss sales. However, it is also possible that some of the employees may be in communication for technical support issues, invoicing, or for personal reasons (e.g., a spouse of a business X employee may work at customer Y). Thus, in this example, to track the percentage of communication between business X and customer Y that relates to sales the user may define a probabilistic algorithm that classifies communications based on the probability that the communication relates to sales. The algorithm for determining the probability may be based on a number of pieces of metadata associated with each communication. For example, the metadata may include the sender's job title, the recipient's job title, the name of the sender, the name of the recipient, whether the communication identifies a product number or an order number, the time of communication, a set of keywords in the content of the communication, etc.","Using the a posteriori classification engine , data may be classified based on metadata associated with the data. For example, the communication in the above example can be classified based on whether it relates to sales, supplies, project development, management, personnel, or is personal. The determination of what the data relates to can be based on any criteria. For example, the determination may be based on keywords associated with the data, the data owner, the data author, the identity or roles of users who have accessed the data, the type of data file, the size of the file, the data the file was created, etc.","In certain embodiments, the a posteriori classification engine  can use the heuristics engine  to facilitate classifying data. Further, in some cases, the a posteriori classification engine  can use the heuristics engine  to validate classifications, to develop probable associations between potentially related content, and to validate the associations as the data collection system  collects more data. In certain embodiments, the a posteriori classification engine  may base the classifications of data on the associations between potentially related content. In some implementations, the heuristic engine  may use machine learning techniques to optimize or update the heuristic algorithms.","In some embodiments, a user (e.g., an administrator) can verify whether the data or metadata has been correctly classified. Based on the result of this verification, in some cases, the a posteriori classification engine  may correct or update one or more classifications of previously processed or classified data. Further, in some implementations, the user can verify whether two or more pieces of data or metadata have been correctly associated with each other. Based on the result of this verification, the a posteriori classification engine  using, for example, the heuristics engine  can correct one or more associations between previously processed data or metadata. Further, in certain embodiments, one or more of the a posteriori classification engine  and the heuristics engine  may update one or more algorithms used for processing the data provided by the data collection system  based on the verifications provided by the user.","In some embodiments, the heuristics engine  may be used as a separate classification engine from the a priori classification engine  and the a posteriori classification engine . Alternatively, the heuristics engine  may be used in concert with one or more of the a priori classification engine  and the a posteriori classification engine . Similar to the a posteriori classification engine , the heuristics engine  generally classifies data after the data has been collected and stored at the databases . However, in some cases, the heuristics engine  can also be used to classify data as it is collected by the collection engine .","The heuristics engine  can use any type of heuristic algorithm for classifying data. For example, the heuristics engine  can determine whether a number of characteristics are associated with the data and based on the determination, classify the data. For example, data that mentions a product, includes price information, addresses (e.g., billing and shipping addresses), and quantity information may be classified as sales data. In some cases, the heuristics engine  can classify data based on a subset of characteristics. For example, if a majority or two-thirds of characteristics associated with a particular classification are identified as existing in a set of data, the heuristics engine  can associate the classification with the set of data. In some cases, the heuristics engine  determines whether one or more characteristics are associated with the data. In other words, the heuristics engine can determine whether a particular characteristic is or is not associated with the data. Alternatively, or in addition, the heuristics engine  can determine the value or attribute of a particular characteristic associated with the data. The value or attribute of the characteristic may then be used to determine a classification for the data. For example, one characteristic that may be used to classify data is the length of the data. For instance, in some cases, a long email may make one classification more likely that a short email.","The a priori classification engine  and the a posteriori classification engine  can store the data classification at the databases . Further, the a posteriori classification engine  and the heuristics engine  can store the probable associations between potentially related data at the databases . In some cases, as classifications and associations are updated based on, for example, user verifications or updates to the a posteriori and heuristic classification and association algorithms, the data or metadata stored at the databases  can be modified to reflect the updates.","Users can communicate with the BIM system  using a client computing system (e.g., client , client , or client ). In some cases, access to the BIM system , or to some features of the BIM system , may be restricted to users who are using clients associated with the computing environment . As described above, in some cases, at least some users can access the BIM system  to verify classifications and associations of data by the data classification system . In addition, in some cases, at least some users can access at least some of the data and\/or metadata stored at the data classification system  using the BIM access system . The BIM access system  can include a user interface , a query manager , and a query security manager .","The user interface  can generally include any system that enables a user to communicate with the BIM system . Further, the user interface  enables the user to submit a query to the BIM system  to access the data or metadata stored at the databases . Moreover, the query can be based on any number of or type of data or metadata fields or variables. Advantageously, in certain embodiments, by enabling, a user to create a query based on any number or type of fields, complex queries can be generated. Further, because the BIM system  can collect and analyze data from a number of internal and external data sources, a user of the BIM system  can extract data that is not typically available by accessing a single data source. For example, a user can query the BIM system  to locate all personal messages sent by the members of the user's department within the last month. As a second example, a user can query the BIM system  to locate all helpdesk requests received in a specific month outside of business hours that were sent by customers from Europe. As an additional example, a product manager may create a query to examine customer reactions to a new product release or the pitfalls associated with a new marketing campaign. The query may return data that is based on a number of sources including, for example, emails received from customers or users, Facebook\u00ae posts, Twitter\u00ae feeds, forum posts, quantity of returned products, etc.","Further, in some cases, a user can create a relatively simple query to obtain a larger picture of an organization's knowledge compared to systems that are incapable of integrating the potentially large number of information sources used by some businesses or organizations. For example, a user can query the BIM system  for information associated with customer X over a time range. In response, the BIM system  may provide the user with all information associated with customer X over the time range, which can include who communicated with customer X, the percentage of communications relating to specific topics (e.g., sales, support, etc.), the products designed for customer X, the employees who performed any work relating to customer X and the employees' roles, etc. This information may not be captured by a single source. For example, the communications may be obtained from an email server, the products may be identified from product drawings, and the employees and their roles may be identified by examining who accessed specific files in combination with the employees' human resources (HR) records.","The query manager  can include any system that enables the user to create the query. The query manager  can cause the available types of search parameters for searching the databases  to be presented to a user via the user interface . These search parameter types can include any type of search parameter that can be used to form a query for searching the databases . For example, the search parameter types can include names (e.g., employee names, customer names, vendor names, etc.), data categories (e.g., sales, invoices, communications, designs, miscellaneous, etc.), stored data types (e.g., strings, integers, dates, times, etc.), data sources (e.g., internal data sources, external data sources, communication sources, sales department sources, product design sources, etc.), dates, etc. In some cases, the query manager  can also parse a query provided by a user. For example, some queries may be provided using a text-based interface or using a text-field in a Graphical User Interface (GUI). In such cases, the query manager  may be configured to parse the query.","The query manager  can further include any system that enables the user to create or select a query package that serves as the query. In certain embodiments, the query manager  can maintain query packages for each user, group of users, and\/or the like. The query packages can be stored, for example, in a SQL database that maintains each user's query packages in a table by a unique identifier. In some embodiments, each user may have a profile that includes a list of package identifiers for that user. The query manager  can cause query packages associated with the user to be presented and made selectable via the user interface . In various embodiments, the query manager  can also facilitate creation of new query packages. New query packages can be made accessible to users in various ways. For example, the new query packages can be created by the user, shared with the user by another user, pushed to the user by an administrator, or created in another fashion.","Further, the query manager  can cause any type of additional options for querying the databases  to be presented to the user via the user interface . These additional options can include, for example, options relating to how query results are displayed or stored.","In some cases, access to the data stored in the BIM system  may be limited to specific users or specific roles. For example, access to the data may be limited to \u201cBob\u201d or to senior managers. Further, some data may be accessible by some users, but not others. For example, sales managers may be limited to accessing information relating to sales, invoicing, and marketing, technical managers may be limited to accessing information relating to product development, design and manufacture, and executive officers may have access to both types of data, and possibly more. In certain embodiments, the query manager  can limit the search parameter options that are presented to a user for forming a query based on the user's identity and\/or role.","The query security manager  can include any system for regulating who can access the data or subsets of data. The query security manager  can regulate access to the databases  and\/or a subset of the information stored at the databases  based on any number and\/or types of factors. For example, these factors can include a user's identity, a user's role, a source of the data, a time associated with the data (e.g., the time the data was created, a time the data was last accessed, an expiration time, etc.), whether the data is historical or current, etc.","Further, the query security manager  can regulate access to the databases  and\/or a subset of the information stored at the databases  based on security restrictions or data access policies implemented by the business logic security manager . For example, the business logic security manager  may identify all data that is \u201csensitive\u201d based on a set of rules, such as whether the data mentions one or more keywords relating to an unannounced product in development. Continuing this example, the business logic security manager  may label the sensitive data as, for example, sensitive, and may identify which users or roles, which are associated with a set of users, can access data labeled as sensitive. The query security manager  can then regulate access to the data labeled as sensitive based on the user or the role associated with the user who is accessing the databases .","Although illustrated separately, in some embodiments, the query security manager  can be included as part of the query manager . Further, in some cases, one or both of the query security manager  and the query manager  can be included as part of the user interface . In certain embodiments, some or all of the previously described systems can be combined or further divided into additional systems. Further, some or all of the previously described systems may be implemented in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software.","Example Data Collection Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","300","132","202","204","206","208","300","130","300","300","130"]},"The process  begins at block  where, for example, the collection engine  accesses data from the internal data sources . At block , the collection engine  accesses data from the external data sources . In some cases, either the block  or  may be optional. Accessing the data may include obtaining the data or a copy of the data from the internal data sources . Further, accessing the data may include accessing metadata associated with the data. In some embodiments, the collection engine  may obtain copies of the metadata or access the data to obtain or determine metadata associated with the data without obtaining a copy of the data. For example, in some cases, the collection engine  may access email from an email server to obtain metadata (e.g., sender, recipient, time sent, whether files are attached, etc.) associated with email messages with or, in some cases, without obtaining a copy of the email.","As previously described, accessing one or more of the internal data sources  and the external data sources  may involve using one or more credentials or accessing one or more accounts associated with the data sources. In such embodiments, the collection engine  may use the access manager  to access the credentials and\/or to facilitate accessing the data sources.","Generally, although not necessarily, the data obtained at blocks  and  is raw data that is obtained in the format that the data is stored at the data sources with little to no modification. At block , the business logic engine , as described above, can reformat or transform the accessed or collected data for analysis and\/or storage. Reformatting the accessed or collected data can include formatting the data to enable further processing by the BIM system . Further, reformatting the accessed or collected data can include formatting the data in a format specified by a user (e.g., an administrator). In addition, in certain cases, reformatting the data can include extracting metadata from the accessed or collected data. In some cases, block  can include abstracting the data to facilitate analysis. For example, assuming the data under analysis is an email, a number of users may be identified. For instance, an email may include a sender, one or more recipients, which may also include users that are carbon copied, or listed on the CC line, and Blind Carbon Copied, or listed on the BCC line, and, in some cases, non-user recipients, such as lists or email addresses that result in a copy of the email being placed in an electronic folder for storage. Each of these users can be abstracted as \u201ccommunication participant.\u201d The data can then be analyzed and\/or stored with each user identified, for example, as a \u201ccommunication participant.\u201d As another example of abstracting the data, the text content of each type of message can be abstracted as \u201cmessage body.\u201d Thus, an email, a Twitter\u00ae post, and a Facebook\u00ae post, and a forum post, and a product review can all be abstracted as \u201cmessage body.\u201d By abstracting data, the BIM system  enables more in-depth searching across multiple data sources. For example, a user can search for all messages associated with communication participant X. The result of the search can include any type of message that is associated with user X including emails sent by user X, emails received by user X, product review by user X, Twitter\u00ae posts by user X, etc. In some embodiments, the databases  may store the abstracted or transformed data and the original data or references to the original sources of data. In other embodiments, the databases  may store the abstracted or transformed data in place of the original data.","In some cases, reformatting the data may be optional. For example, in cases where the collection engine  collects metadata from sources that share a common or substantially similar data storage format, the block  may be unnecessary.","At block , the business logic security manager  applies a security or data access policy to the collected data. Applying the security policy can include preventing the collection engine  from accessing some data. For example, applying the security policy can include preventing the collection engine  from accessing encrypted files, files associated with a specific project or user, or files marked private. Further, applying the security policy can include marking or identifying data, based on the security policy, that should not be stored at the databases , that should be accessible by a set of users or roles, or that should be inaccessible by a set of users or roles. The business logic security manager  can filter any data marked for exclusion from storage in the databases  at block . Further, the business logic security manager  and\/or the business logic engine  can filter out any data to be excluded based on a data access policy, which can be based on any type of factor for excluding data. For example, data may be filtered based on the age of the data, such as files created more than five years ago or emails more than two years old.","At block , the business logic engine  or the business logic security manager  may classify the collected and\/or filtered data. The data may be classified based on, for example, who can access the data, the type of data, the source of the data, or any other factor that can be used to classify data. In some embodiments, the data may be provided to the data classification system  for classification. Some non-limiting embodiments of a process for classifying the data are described in further detail below with respect to the process , which is illustrated in .","The business logic engine  further formats the data for storage at block . Formatting the data for storage can include creating a low-level abstraction of the data, transforming the data, or extracting metadata for storage in place of the data. In some cases, block  can include some or all of the embodiments described above with respect to the block . In some embodiments, data may go through one abstraction or transformation process at the block  to optimize the data for analysis and go through another abstraction or transformation process at the block  to optimize the data for storage and\/or query access. In some embodiments, the metadata may be stored in addition to the data. Further, the metadata, in some cases, may be used for querying the databases . For example, a user can search the databases  for information based on one or more metadata fields. In some embodiments, one or more of the blocks  and  may be optional.","At block , the data collection system  can cause the data to be stored at, for example, the databases . This stored data can include one or more of the collected data, the metadata, and the abstracted data. In some embodiments, storing the data can include providing the data to the data repository  for indexing. In such embodiments, the data repository  can store the indexed data at the databases .","Although the process  was presented above in a specific order, it is possible for the operations of the process  to be performed in a different order or in parallel. For example, the business logic security manager  may perform the block , at least in part, prior to or in parallel with the blocks  and . As a second example, the business logic engine  may perform the block  as each item of data is accessed or after a set of data is accessed at the blocks  and .","Example Data Classification Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","400","134","222","224","226","228","230","400","130","400","400","130"]},"The process  begins at block  where, for example, the data collection system  accesses data from one or more of the internal data sources  and the external data sources . The data collection system  may use the collection engine  to access the data. Further, the block  can include some or all of the embodiments described above with respect to the blocks  and . Moreover, some or all of the process  described above can be performed as part of the process performed at block . In some embodiments, the process  can be performed as part of the block  above. In such embodiments, the block  may include the data collection system  providing the data, a reformatted version of the data, an abstraction of the data, and\/or metadata to the data classification system . In some implementations, the process  may be performed separately or independently of the data collection process. In such embodiments, the block  may include accessing the data from the databases . In some cases, the databases  may include a database for classified data and a separate database for data that has not yet been classified.","At block , the a priori classification engine  classifies the data based on a set of user-specified classification rules. As previously mentioned, a developer of the BIM system  or a user (e.g., an administrator) may specify the classification rules. Further, the classification rules can include any rules for classifying data based on the data or metadata associated with the data. For example, data may be classified based on the author of the data, the owner of the data, the time the data was created, etc.","At block , the a posteriori classification engine  classifies the data using a posteriori analysis. This may include the a posteriori classification engine  using one or more probabilistic algorithms to determine one or more classifications for the data. The a posteriori classification engine  can use any type of probabilistic algorithm for classifying the data. For example, the classification may be based on one or more Bayesian probability algorithms. As another example, the a posteriori classification may be based on clustering of similar or dissimilar pieces of data. One example of such an approach that can be adapted for use herein is the Braun-Blanquet method that is sometimes used in vegetation science. One or both of the a priori classification and the a posteriori classification may be based on one or more variables or criteria associated with the data or metadata.","In some embodiments, the a posteriori classification engine  may use the heuristics engine  to facilitate calculating the probabilistic classifications of the data. For example, the a posteriori classification engine  can modify the probabilities used to classify the data based on a determination of the heuristics engine  of the accuracy of the classification of previously classified data. The heuristics engine  may determine the accuracy of the classification of previously classified data based on, for example, feedback by the user. This feedback may include, for example, manual reclassification of data, indications by a user of the accuracy of prior classifications, indications of the accuracy or usefulness of query results from querying the databases  that include the classified data, etc. Further, the heuristics engine  may determine the accuracy of the classification of previously classified data based on, for example, the classifications of data accessed more recently than the previously classified data. In some cases, the more recent data may have been accessed before or at the same time as the previously classified data, but may be classified after the previously classified data.","At block , the heuristics engine  can classify data using a heuristics analysis. As previously described, in some cases, the heuristics engine  can classify the data based on the number or percentage of characteristics or attributes associated with the data that match a particular classification.","In some embodiments, the task scheduler  schedules one or more of the blocks , , and . Further, in some cases, the task scheduler  may determine whether to perform the process  and\/or one or more of the blocks , , and . In some cases, one or more of the blocks , , and  may be optional. For instance, an initial classification may be associated with data when it is collected via the process associated with the block . The data may then be further classified or reclassified at collection, or at a later time, using the process associated with the block , the block , or a combination of the blocks  and .","At block , the data repository engine  stores or causes to be stored the data and the data classifications at the databases . In some cases, the data repository engine  may store metadata associated with the data at the databases  instead of, or in addition to, storing the data.","At block , the data repository engine  can update the a posteriori algorithms based on the classifications determined for the data. In addition, or alternatively, the a posteriori algorithms may be updated based on previously classified data. The a posteriori algorithms may be updated based on customer feedback and\/or the determination of the heuristics engine  as described above with respect to the block . Further, updating the a posteriori algorithms may include modifying the probabilistic weights applied to one or more variables or pieces of metadata used to determine the one or more classifications of the data. Moreover, updating the a posteriori algorithms may include modifying the one or more variables or pieces of metadata used to determine the one or more classifications of the data. In some cases, the block  can include modifying the heuristic algorithms used at the block . For example, the number of characteristics required to classify the data with a particular classification may be modified. In addition, or alternatively, the weight applied to each of the characteristics may be modified at the block .","As with the process , it is possible for the operations of the process  to be performed in a different order or in parallel. For example, the blocks  and  may be performed in a different order or in parallel.","Example Data Query Process Using User-Provided Query",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","500","136","240","242","244","500","130","500","500","130"]},"The process  begins at block  where, for example, the user interface  receives a set of one or more search parameters from a user via a client (e.g., the client ). In some embodiments, the search parameters may be provided by another computing system. For example, in some embodiments, an application running on a server (not shown) or a client (e.g., the client ) may be configured to query the BIM system  in response to an event or at a predetermined time. The application can then use the result of the query to perform an application-specific process. For instance, an application or script may be configured to query the BIM system  every month to determine the workload of each employee or of the employees in a specific department of an organization to determine, for example, whether additional employees are needed or whether the allocation of human resources within different departments should be redistributed. In this example, the application can determine whether to alert a user based on the result of the determination.","In some implementations, a user can provide a text-based query to the user interface . This text-based query can be parsed by, for example, the user interface  and\/or the query manager . Alternatively, or in addition, the user interface  can provide a set of query options and\/or fields that a user can use to formulate a query of the BIM system . The query options or fields can include any type of option or field that can be used to form a query of the BIM system . For example, the query options or fields can include tags, classifications, time ranges, keywords, user identifiers, user roles, customer identifiers, vendor identifiers, corporate locations, geographic locations, etc. In some embodiments, the query options and\/or search fields presented to a user may be generated based on the data stored in the databases . For example, if the databases  includes email data, a sender field and a recipient field may be available for generating a query. However, if the databases  lacks any email data, the sender and recipient fields may not be available for generating a query.","In some cases, the query security manager  can limit or determine the fields or options that the user interface  can present to the user based on, for example, the user's permissions or the user's role. For example, fields relating to querying the BIM system  regarding the content of a business's email may be unavailable to a user who is not authorized to search the contents of collected email. For instance, searching the content of emails may be limited to the legal department for compliance purposes. Other users may be prohibited from searching the email content for privacy reasons.","At block , the query manager  formats a query based on the search parameters received at block . Formatting the query may include transforming the search parameters and query options provided by the user into a form that can be processed by the data repository engine . In certain embodiments, the block  may be optional. For example, in some cases the search parameters may be provided by the user in a form of a query that can be processed by the BIM system  without modification.","At block , the user interface  receives one or more user credentials from the user. In some cases, the user credentials may be received from an application. The user credentials can include any type of credential or identifier that can be used to identify a user and\/or determine a set of permissions or a level of authorization associated with the user. At block , the query security manager  can validate the user, or application, based at least in part on the user credentials received at the user interface . Validating the user can include identifying the user, identifying permissions associated with the user, the user's role, and\/or an authorization level associated with the user. In some embodiments, if the query security manager  is unable to validate the user or determines that the user lacks authorization to access the BIM system  and\/or query the databases , the query security manager  may reject the user's query. Further, the user interface  may inform the user that the user is not authorized to access the BIM system  or to query the databases . In some implementations, if the user identifies as a guest or if the query security manager  is unable to validate the guest, the user may be associated with a guest identity and\/or a set of guest permissions, which may permit limited access to the BIM system  or the data stored at the databases . In some cases, a guest may receive full access to the BIM system . However, the actions of the guest may be logged or logged differently than the actions of an identified user.","At block , the query security manager  attaches the user permissions to the query. Alternatively, or in addition, the query security manager may attach the user's identity, role, and\/or authorization level to the query. In some embodiments, one or more of the blocks , , and  may be optional.","At block , the query manager  retrieves data, and\/or metadata, satisfying the query. In some implementations, the block  may include providing the query to the data repository engine  for processing. The data repository engine  can then query the databases  to obtain data that satisfies the query. This data can then be provided to the query manager .","At decision block , the query security manager  can determine whether the user has permission, or is authorized, to access the data that satisfies the query. Determining whether the user has permission to access the data may be based on any type of factor that can be used to determine whether a user can access data. For example, the determination may be based, at least in part, on the user's credentials, the user's permissions, a security level associated with the data, etc. In some cases, the data repository engine  may perform the decision block  as part of the process associated with the block .","If the query security manager  determines that the user does not have permission to access the data, the query security manager  rejects the user query at block . In some cases, rejecting the user query may include informing the user that the query is not authorized and\/or that the user is not authorized to access the data associated with the query. In other cases, rejecting the user query may include doing nothing or presenting an indication to the user that no data satisfies the user's query.","If the query security manager  determines that the user does have permission to access the data, the user interface  provides the user with access to the data at block . Providing the user with access to the data can include presenting the data on a webpage, in an application-generated window, in a file, in an email, or any other method for providing data to a user. In some cases, the data may be copied to a file and the user may be informed that the data is ready for access by, for example, providing the user with a copy of the file, a link to the file, or a location associated with the file.","With some queries, a user may be authorized to access some data that satisfies the query, but not other data that satisfies the query. In such cases, the user may be presented with the data that the user is authorized to access. Further, the user may be informed that additional data exists that was not provided because, for example, the user was not authorized to access the data. In other cases, the user may not be informed that additional data exists that was not provided.","In some embodiments, the decision block  and block  may be optional. For example, in some cases where the search parameters available to a user are based on the user's permissions, decision block  may be superfluous. However, in other embodiments, both the search parameters available to the user and the data the user can access are independently determined based on the user's permissions.","Advantageously, in certain embodiments, the process  can be used to identify new information and\/or to determine trends that would be more difficult or identify or not possible to identify based on a single data source. For example, the process  can be used to identify the most productive and least productive employees of an organization based on a variety of metrics. Examining a single data source may not provide this information because employees serve different roles. Further, different employees are unproductive in different ways. For example, some employees may spend time an inordinate amount of time on social networking sites or emailing friends. Other employees may procrastinate by playing games or by talking in the kitchen. Thus, examining only email use or Internet activity may not provide an accurate determination of which employees are more productive. In addition, some employees can accomplish more work in less time than other employees. Thus, to determine which employees are the most productive during working hours requires examining a number of data sources. The BIM system  makes this possible by enabling a user to generate a query that relates the amount of time in the office to the amount of time spent procrastinating at different types of activities to the number of work-related tasks that are accomplished.","As a second example, the BIM system  can be used to identify the salespersons and the communications techniques that are most effective for each customer. For instance, a user can generate a query that relates sales, the method of communication, the content of communication, the salespersons contacting each of the customers, and the customers. Based on the result of this query, a manager may be able to determine that certain salespersons generate larger sales when using a particular communication method with a particular customer while other salespersons may be more effective with a different communication method with the particular customer or may be more effective with other customers.","An additional example of an application of the BIM system  can include gauging employee reaction to an executive memorandum or a reorganization announcement. Queries can be generated to access all communications associated with the memorandum or announcement. Alternatively, or in addition, queries can be generated to identify the general mood of employees post memorandum or announcement. These queries can examine the tone of emails and other communications (e.g., social networking posts, etc.). Additional examples of applications for using the BIM system  can include determining whether employees are communicating with external sources in a manner that adheres to corporate policies, communicating with customers in a timely fashion, or accessing data that is unrelated to their job role.","Example of a Heuristics Engine",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0115"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"],"b":["602","602","230","602","602"]},"The heuristics engine  includes a profiling engine  and a comparison engine . In a typical embodiment, the profiling engine  is operable to develop one or more profiles  by performing, for example, a multivariate analysis. For example, in certain embodiments, the one or more profiles  may relate to what constitutes a personal message. In these embodiments, the profiling engine  can perform a multivariate analysis of communications known to be personal messages in order to develop the one or more profiles . In some embodiments, the one or more profiles  can also be manually established.","In typical embodiment, the one or more profiles  can each include an inclusion list  and a filter list . The inclusion list  can include a list of tokens such as, for example, words, that have been determined to be associated with the classification to which the profile corresponds (e.g., personal message, business message, etc.). In a typical embodiment, for each token in the inclusion list , the appearance of the token in a communication makes it more likely that the communication should be assigned the classification. The filter list  can include a list of tokens such as, for example, words, that have been determined to have little to no bearing on whether a given communication should be assigned the classification. In some embodiments, the filter list  may be common across all classifications.","In certain embodiments, the inclusion list  may be associated with statistical data that is maintained by the profiling engine . Based on the statistical data, the one or more profiles  can provide means, or expected values, relative to the inclusion list . In some embodiments, the expected value may be based on an input such as a length of a given communication (e.g., a number of characters or words). According to this example, the expected value may be an expected number of \u201chits\u201d on the inclusion list  for a personal message of a particular length. The particular length may correspond to a length of the given communication. By way of further example, the expected value may be an expected percentage of words of a personal message that are \u201chits\u201d on the inclusion list . Optionally, the expected percentage may be based on a length of the given communication in similar fashion to that described above with respect to the expected number of \u201chits.\u201d","The comparison engine  is operable to compare data to the one or more profiles  based on configurations . The configurations  typically include heuristics for establishing whether data should be classified into the classification. In particular, the configurations  can include one or more thresholds that are established relative to the statistical data maintained by the profiling engine . For example, each threshold can be established as a number of standard deviations relative to an expected value.","For example, continuing the personal-message classification example described above, the configurations  may require that an actual value of a given metric for a new communication not be more than two standard deviations below the expected value of the given metric. In this fashion, if the actual value is not more than two standard deviations below the expected value, the new communication may be assigned the classification. The given metric may be, for example, a number or percentage of \u201chits\u201d as described above.","Example of a Heuristics Process",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 2","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","700","700","230","602","700","130","700","700","700","702"]},"At step , the heuristics engine receives new data. The new data may be considered to be representative of any data, inclusive of metadata, for which classification is desired. The new data may be, for example, a new communication. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the heuristics engine identifies one or more comparison attributes in the new data. For example, the one or more comparison attributes may be actual values for given metrics such as, for example, a number or percentage of \u201chits\u201d on an inclusion list such as the inclusion list  of . From step , the process  proceeds to step .","At step , the heuristics engine compares the one or more comparison attributes with one or more thresholds. The one or more thresholds may be defined as part of configurations such as, for example, the configurations  of . From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the heuristics engine determines whether classification criteria has been satisfied. In a typical embodiment, the classification criteria is representative of criteria for determining whether the new data should be assigned the classification. The classification criteria may specify, for example, that all or a particular combination of the one or more thresholds be satisfied.","If it is determined at step  that the classification criteria not been satisfied, the process  proceeds to step  where the process  ends without the new data being assigned the classification. If it is determined at step  that the classification criteria has been satisfied, the process  proceeds to step . At step , the heuristics engine assigns the classification to the new data. From step , the process  proceeds to step . At step , the process  ends.","Example of Query Packages","In certain embodiments, data queries as described with respect to  may also be accomplished using query packages. A query package generally encapsulates package attributes such as, for example, search parameters as described above with respect to queries, as long with other package attributes that enable enhanced functionality. For example, a query package can further encapsulate a package attribute that specifies a type of data visualization that is to be created using the queried data. The type of data visualization can include, for example, scatterplots, pie charts, tables, bar charts, geospatial representations, heat maps, chord charts, interactive graphs, bubble charts, candlestick charts, stoplight charts, spring graphs, and\/or other types of charts, graphs, or manners of displaying data.","In some embodiments, query packages may run one specific query. In various other embodiments, query packages may run multiple queries. Table 1 below lists exemplary package attributes that can be included in a given query package.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0127"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["PACKAGE ",{}]},{"entry":["ATTRIBUTE(S)","DESCRIPTION"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Package Name","A name by which the query package can be"]},{"entry":[{},"referenced."]},{"entry":["Package ","A description of the query package's operation."]},{"entry":["Description",{}]},{"entry":["Security Scope","Optionally specify a security and data access policy"]},{"entry":[{},"as described with respect to FIG. 2."]},{"entry":["Visualization","Specifies a type of data visualization such as, for"]},{"entry":[{},"example, scatterplots, pie charts, tables, bar charts,"]},{"entry":[{},"geospatial representations, heat maps, chord charts,"]},{"entry":[{},"interactive graphs, bubble charts, candlestick charts,"]},{"entry":[{},"stoplight charts, spring graphs, and\/or other types of"]},{"entry":[{},"charts, graphs, or manners of displaying data."]},{"entry":[{},"In cases where the package is representative of"]},{"entry":[{},"multiple queries, the visualization attribute may be"]},{"entry":[{},"represented as an array of visualizations that can"]},{"entry":[{},"each have a visualization type, a data source, and a"]},{"entry":[{},"target entity (e.g., entity that is being counted such"]},{"entry":[{},"as, for example, messages, message participants,"]},{"entry":[{},"etc.)"]},{"entry":["Default Group- ","Retrieves data according to, for example, one or"]},{"entry":["By Field","more data columns (e.g., by location, department,"]},{"entry":[{},"etc.)."]},{"entry":["Aggregation ","A time period such as, for example, daily, hourly,"]},{"entry":["Period","etc."]},{"entry":["Data-Smoothing ","Specifies one or more algorithms that attempt to"]},{"entry":["Attributes","capture important patterns in the data, while leaving"]},{"entry":[{},"out noise or other fine-scale structures\/rapid"]},{"entry":[{},"phenomena."]},{"entry":["Visualization-","Certain types of visualizations may require"]},{"entry":["Specific ","additional attributes such as, for example,"]},{"entry":["Attributes","specification of settings for sorting, number of"]},{"entry":[{},"elements in a data series, etc."]},{"entry":["Facet Names","Data (or fields) related to the query that can be used"]},{"entry":[{},"to categorize data. Particular values of facets can be"]},{"entry":[{},"used, for example, to constrain query results."]},{"entry":["Array of Entities","An array of entities that can each have, for example,"]},{"entry":[{},"a name, entity type (e.g., message), filter expression,"]},{"entry":[{},"and a parent-entity property."]},{"entry":["Array of Facets","An array of facets that can each have, for example, a"]},{"entry":[{},"name, group-by field, and a minimum\/maximum"]},{"entry":[{},"number of results to show."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In a typical embodiment, query packages can be shared among users or distributed to users, for example, by an administrator. In a typical embodiment, one user may share a particular query package with another user or group of users via the user interface . In similar fashion the other user or group of users can accept the query package via the user interface . Therefore, the query manager  can add the shared query package for the user or group of users. As described above, the query manager  generally maintains each user's query packages in a table by a unique identifier. In a typical embodiment, query packages further facilitate sharing by specifying data and data sources in a relative fashion that is, for example, relative to a user running the query. For example, package attributes can refer to data owned by a user running the query or to data that is owned by users under the supervision of the user running the query rather than to specific data or users.","Example Data Query Process Using Query Packages",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0129"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","800","800","136","240","242","244","800","130","800","800","130"]},"The process  begins at block  where, for example, the user interface  from a user a selection of a query package. In various embodiments, the query package may be selected from a list or graphical representation of query packages. As described above, the query package typically specifies a data visualization based on a data query. In various embodiments, the query package may specify more than one data visualization and\/or be based on more than one data query. At block , the query manager  formats one or more queries based on the query package selected at block . In certain embodiments, the block  may be optional. For example, in some cases the query package may already include a query that can be processed by the BIM system  without modification.","At block , the user interface  receives one or more user credentials from the user. In some cases, the user credentials may be received from an application. The user credentials can include any type of credential or identifier that can be used to identify a user and\/or determine a set of permissions or a level of authorization associated with the user. At block , the query security manager  can validate the user, or application, based at least in part on the user credentials received at the user interface . Validating the user can include identifying the user, identifying permissions associated with the user, the user's role, and\/or an authorization level associated with the user. In some embodiments, if the query security manager  is unable to validate the user or determines that the user lacks authorization to access the BIM system  and\/or query the databases , the query security manager  may reject the one or more queries. Further, the user interface  may inform the user that the user is not authorized to access the BIM system  or to query the databases . In some implementations, if the user identifies as a guest or if the query security manager  is unable to validate the guest, the user may be associated with a guest identity and\/or a set of guest permissions, which may permit limited access to the BIM system  or the data stored at the databases . In some cases, a guest may receive full access to the BIM system . However, the actions of the guest may be logged or logged differently than the actions of an identified user.","At block , the query security manager  attaches the user permissions to the one or more queries. Alternatively, or in addition, the query security manager may attach the user's identity, role, and\/or authorization level to the one or more queries. In some embodiments, one or more of the blocks , , and  may be optional.","At block , the query manager  retrieves data, and\/or metadata, satisfying the one or more queries. In some implementations, the block  may include providing the one or more queries to the data repository engine  for processing. The data repository engine  can then query the databases  to obtain data that satisfies the one or more queries. This data can then be provided to the query manager .","At decision block , the query security manager  can determine whether the user has permission, or is authorized, to access the data that satisfies the one or more queries. Determining whether the user has permission to access the data may be based on any type of factor that can be used to determine whether a user can access data. For example, the determination may be based, at least in part, on the user's credentials, the user's permissions, a security level associated with the data, etc. In some cases, the data repository engine  may perform the decision block  as part of the process associated with the block .","If the query security manager  determines that the user does not have permission to access the data, the query security manager  rejects the one or more queries at block . In some cases, rejecting the one or more queries may include informing the user that the query package not authorized and\/or that the user is not authorized to access the data associated with the query package. In other cases, rejecting the one or more queries may include doing nothing or presenting an indication to the user that no data satisfies the query package.","If the query security manager  determines that the user does have permission to access the data, the query manager  (or a separate visualization component) generates the data visualization at block . At block , the user interface  provides the data visualization to the user. Providing the user the data visualization can include presenting the data visualization on a webpage, in an application-generated window, in a file, in an email, or any other method for providing data to a user. In some cases, the data visualization may be copied to a file and the user may be informed that the data visualization is ready for access by, for example, providing the user with a copy of the file, a link to the file, or a location associated with the file.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0137"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},"Example of a Data Model","Table 2 below provides an example of a data model that can be utilized by a BIM system such as, for example, the BIM system . In particular, Table 2 illustrates several entities that can be used to model communications such as, for example, personal communications or business communications.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0141","num":"0140"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["ENTITY","FIELD","DATA TYPE"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Message","Body","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Classifications","Strings"]},{"entry":[{},"Content","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Date","Date Time"]},{"entry":[{},"External Recipients","Entities (Message Participant)"]},{"entry":[{},"File Attachments","Entities (File)"]},{"entry":[{},"In reply to","Entity (Message)"]},{"entry":[{},"Internal Recipients","Entities (Message Participant)"]},{"entry":[{},"Is Encrypted","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Message Attachments","Entities (Messages)"]},{"entry":[{},"Message IDs","Strings"]},{"entry":[{},"Original Message ID","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Participants","Entities (Message Participant)"]},{"entry":[{},"Platform","Enum (Message Platform type)"]},{"entry":[{},"Recipients","Entities (Message Participant)"]},{"entry":[{},"Send Date","Date Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Send Time of Day","Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Sender","Entity (Message Participant)"]},{"entry":[{},"Size","Integer"]},{"entry":[{},"Subject","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Thread","Entity (Message Thread)"]},{"entry":[{},"Type","Enum (Message Address Type)"]},{"entry":["Message ","Date","Date Time"]},{"entry":["Participant","Deletion Date","Date Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Delivery Time","Time Span"]},{"entry":[{},"Has Been Delivered","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"ID","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Is Addressed in BCC","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Is Addressed in CC","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Is Addressed in TO","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Is External Recipient","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Is Internal Recipient","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Is Recipient","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Is Sender","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"MessgeAsSender","Entity (Message)"]},{"entry":[{},"MessageAsInternalRecipient","Entity (Message)"]},{"entry":[{},"MessageAsExternal Recipient","Entity (Message)"]},{"entry":[{},"Message Address","Entity (Message Address)"]},{"entry":[{},"Person","Entity (Person Snapshot)"]},{"entry":[{},"Receipt Date","Date Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Receipt Time of Day","Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Responses","Entity (Message)"]},{"entry":[{},"Response Time","Time Span"]},{"entry":["Message ","Domain","Entity (ONS Domain)"]},{"entry":["Address","Is External","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Is Internal","Boolean"]},{"entry":[{},"Name","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Platform","Enum (Message Platform "]},{"entry":[{},{},"Type)"]},{"entry":[{},"Type","Enum (Message Address Type"]},{"entry":["DNS ","Name","String"]},{"entry":["Domain","Address","Entities (Messaging Address)"]},{"entry":["Person ","All Reports","Entities (Person Snapshot)"]},{"entry":["Snapshot","Company","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Department","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Direct Reports","Entities (Person Snapshot)"]},{"entry":[{},"First Name","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Full Name","String"]},{"entry":[{},"History","Entity (Person History)"]},{"entry":[{},"ID","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Initials","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Job Title","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Last Name","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Manager","Entity (Person Snapshot)"]},{"entry":[{},"Managers","Entities (Person Snapshot)"]},{"entry":[{},"Messaging Addresses","Entities (Message Address)"]},{"entry":[{},"Message Participants",{}]},{"entry":[{},"Office","String"]},{"entry":[{},"OU","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Snapshot Date","Date Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Street Address","Complex Type (Street Address)"]},{"entry":[{},"Telephone Numbers","Strings"]},{"entry":["Street ","City","String"]},{"entry":["Address","Country or Region","String"]},{"entry":[{},"PO Box","String"]},{"entry":[{},"State or Province","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Street","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Zip or Postal Code","String"]},{"entry":["Person ","Current","Entity (Person)"]},{"entry":["History","Historic","Entities (Person)"]},{"entry":[{},"ID","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Messages","Entities (Message)"]},{"entry":[{},"Timestamp","Date Time"]},{"entry":["Message ","ID","String"]},{"entry":["Thread","Messages","Entities (Message)"]},{"entry":[{},"Participants","Entities (Message Participant"]},{"entry":[{},"Thread subject","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Timestamp","Date Time"]},{"entry":["File","Filename","String"]},{"entry":[{},"ID","String"]},{"entry":[{},"Messages","Entities (Message)"]},{"entry":[{},"Modified Date","Date Time"]},{"entry":[{},"Size","Integer"]},{"entry":[{},"Hash","String"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Table 3, Table 4, and Table 5 below provide several examples of how a BIM access system such as, for example, the BIM access system , can be utilized. In various embodiments, each example may be implemented as user-generated queries or query packages as described above. In particular, Table 3 illustrates uses cases for gleaning operational insights. Table 4 illustrates use cases for gleaning business insights. Table 5 illustrates uses cases for gleaning compliance insights.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0142"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"USER",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["USE CASE","PERSONA","POTENTIAL OBJECTIVE(S)","INPUT","OUTPUT"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Find Lost","Helpdesk","1. Help a mail user unders7tand","Sender name,","Indication"]},{"entry":["Message","Personnel","why they (or a recipient) apparently","recipient name,","whether message"]},{"entry":["(Helpdesk)",{},"didn't receive a message;","message date","was delivered"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Help that user prove whether the","range, and","and, if not, a"]},{"entry":[{},{},"message was delivered or not, or","message subject.","location of where"]},{"entry":[{},{},"whether message was caught by junk",{},"message was last"]},{"entry":[{},{},"filter; and",{},"located."]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Escalate the problem to IT if",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"there is a system problem.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Find Lost","Mail User","1 Understand why someone","Sender name,","Was message"]},{"entry":["Message (Self-",{},"apparently didn't receive a message I","recipient name,","delivered or is it"]},{"entry":["Service)",{},"sent them.","message date\/time,","in transit"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Discover whether the message","message subject",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"was actually delivered.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Report a system problem to IT if",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"necessary.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Track","Mail User","1. Determine whether a specific","Sender name,","Was message sent"]},{"entry":["Anticipated",{},"person sent a message that was expected","recipient name,","and delivered or is"]},{"entry":["Message",{},"to be sent.","message date range","it in transit"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Determine whether the message",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"was actually sent, or lost in transit.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Measure","IT Manager","1. Track the average and maximum","Source (mailbox\/","Textual output of"]},{"entry":["Internal Mail",{},"message delivery times of internal mail","site), target","compliance"]},{"entry":["Delivery time",{},"system.","(mailbox\/site)","results, drill-into"]},{"entry":["Compliance",{},{},{},"the \u201cAnalyze"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Internal Mail"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Delivery Times\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"scenario (and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"accompanying"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"charts) to find out"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"where your SLA"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"was NOT met."]},{"entry":["Analyze","Messaging","1. Show and trend the delivery times","Source (mailbox\/","Trend charts of"]},{"entry":["Internal Mail","Administrator","between internal servers.","site), target","overall, site to"]},{"entry":["Delivery",{},"2. Identify problem areas, or future","(mailbox\/site),","site, or server to"]},{"entry":["Times",{},"problem areas, regarding inter-","filter (maximum","server average\/"]},{"entry":[{},{},"organization mail delivery.","delivery time","maximum"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"between 2 end-","delivery times"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"points)",{}]},{"entry":["Diagnose Slow","Messaging","1. Investigate why a particular","Sender, recipient,","Details of"]},{"entry":["or Lost","Administrator","message was slow to be delivered,","message date\/","message delivery"]},{"entry":["Delivery for a",{},"2. Determine whether there is a","time, subject","path and timing"]},{"entry":["Particular",{},"problem with the mail system","wildcard, Filter on",{}]},{"entry":["Message",{},"3. Take any necessary corrective","message header",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"action,","(including x-",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"headers)",{}]},{"entry":["Compare and","IT Manager,","1. Regularly compare and trend the","Date range, data","Trend of relative"]},{"entry":["Trend Usage","Executive","usage of different communications","sources (Exchange,","platform usage"]},{"entry":["across",{},"systems.","Lync\/OCS), users","over time, point-"]},{"entry":["Communication",{},"2. Perform capacity planning and","(department\/site)","in-time chart"]},{"entry":["Systems",{},"make infrastructure investment",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"decisions.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Track changes in user behavior",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"to communication usage directives.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Analyze Non-","Messaging and","1. Show point-in-time, and trending,","Date time range,","Table with"]},{"entry":["Delivery","Messaging","of an aggregate number and type of","target domain, site,","aggregate"]},{"entry":["Reports","Administrator","NDRs (e.g., rejected, bounced, blocked, ","server, sender","numbers by type,"]},{"entry":["(NDR's)",{},"email error).",{},"Charts for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Detect and troubleshoot NDR",{},"trending of NDRs"]},{"entry":[{},{},"issues with my messaging system, and",{},"by type, Optimal:"]},{"entry":[{},{},"identify trends BIM",{},"Pivot Viewer to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"slice- and-dice the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"data (which"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"senders are"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"generating NDR's,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"etc . . . to help you"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"diagnose the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"problem)"]},{"entry":["View List of","Messaging","1. Drill into the details of a message","Date range,","List of messages"]},{"entry":["Messages","Administrator,","report to see a list of messages sent or","mailbox, type of","and corresponding"]},{"entry":["Details of a","Management","received by a particular user.","message (sent or","details"]},{"entry":["Message Stats",{},"2. Perform light-weight auditing and","received)",{}]},{"entry":["Report",{},"forensics.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Further understand the message",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"report (e.g., what is the subject of",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"messages going to a particular email",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"domain).",{},{}]},{"entry":["Ensure","Messaging","1. Understand who and how many","\u201cNetwork\u201d","Show me all"]},{"entry":["Encrypted","Administrator,","encrypted messages are being sent on","(identified by","encrypted"]},{"entry":["Message","Management","which network.","domain, ip-subnet,","messages that"]},{"entry":["Usage",{},"2. Track adherence to corporate","ip-address).","didn't meet the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"policy on encrypted message use.","Recipient, date","criteria. Volume"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"range.","number + textual"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"output of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"messages in"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"violation"]},{"entry":["Understand","Messaging","1. See aggregate number of messages","Filter (DSN or","Aggregate"]},{"entry":["Connector","Administrator","and specific message-level details being","NDR, External vs.","message counts"]},{"entry":["Capacity and",{},"sent or received over a particular MTA,","Internal), Date","by connector"]},{"entry":["Distribution",{},"where MTA can be, for example, an","time range,","(chart), individual"]},{"entry":[{},{},"Exchange Server (2003 Front-End or","Exchange Server","message details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2007 HUB Transport) or Exchange","or Connector and","(including client-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"HUB Receive Connector.","Edge servers","ip, client-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Understand how busy the",{},"hostname, server-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"connectors are and plan for over\/under",{},"ip, server-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"saturated connectors accordingly.",{},"hostname,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Report on which external",{},"connector-id,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"peripheral mail servers and other",{},"event-id,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"systems are sending messages over",{},"recipient-address,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which connectors.",{},"total-bytes,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"recipient-count,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"sender- address,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"message-subject),"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Topology"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Visualization"]},{"entry":["Troubleshoot","Messaging","1. See real-time message activity","Exchange Server","Aggregate"]},{"entry":["Connector","Administrator","across connectors.","or Connector and","message counts"]},{"entry":["Message Flow",{},"2. Troubleshoot a message flow issue","Edge servers,","by connector"]},{"entry":[{},{},"which could be caused by either a","inbound or","(chart), individual"]},{"entry":[{},{},"connector issue or an external event (e.g.","outbound, domain","message details"]},{"entry":[{},{},"DOS attack, SPAM, looping message).","or queue","(including client-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(associated with","ip, client-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"the connector).","hostname, server-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"ip, server-"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"hostname,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"connector-id,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"event-id,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"recipient-address,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"total-bytes,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"recipient-count,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"sender-address,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"message-subject),"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Topology"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Visualization"]},{"entry":["Understand","IT Manager,","1. Compare usage across messaging","Date time range,","Aggregate"]},{"entry":["User Client","Messaging","clients (Outlook\/OWA\/BlackBerry\/","users, groups,","numbers for users"]},{"entry":["Usage","Administrator,","ActiveSync).","devices","and groups,"]},{"entry":[{},"Executives","Understand usage of desktop vs. mobile",{},"Charting,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and justify ROI where necessary,",{},"Trending,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"possible risk mobile assessment usage.",{},"Comparison"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Determine whether people are",{},"across users and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"trending towards not using desktop",{},"groups, Pivot"]},{"entry":[{},{},"computers.",{},"Viewer"]},{"entry":["Understand","Messaging","1. Understand mobile (e.g.,","Server End-points,","Overall aggregate"]},{"entry":["Mobile","Administrator","BlackBerry, ActiveSync) usage on my","Date time range,","numbers for end-"]},{"entry":["Infrastructure",{},"messaging infrastructure Perform","devices","point, Trending"]},{"entry":["Usage",{},"capacity planning for my mobile",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"growth",{},{}]},{"entry":["Understand","Messaging","1. Find all the messages that have","Date time range,","Charts, pivots of"]},{"entry":["Usage of","Administrator","originated from specific end-user mail","users, specific","aggregate"]},{"entry":["\u201cSpecial\u201d",{},"clients or servers,","message header","numbers,"]},{"entry":["Messages",{},"2. Assess risks or determine usage.","information","aggregate trends,"]},{"entry":["(using",{},"Special messages generally have",{},"List of messages"]},{"entry":["message",{},"particular metadata in the X-Headers",{},"and details,"]},{"entry":["headers)",{},"such as mail classification,",{},"message volumes"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"grouped by header"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"information."]},{"entry":["Search for","Messaging","1. Find all the messages that have","Date time range,","List of messages"]},{"entry":["\u201cSpecial","Administrator","particular message header criteria","major header fields","and details"]},{"entry":["Messages\u201d",{},"2. Discover messages sent from non-","(date\/time, sender,",{}]},{"entry":["(customer",{},"Exchange servers and flexible specific","recipient(s),",{}]},{"entry":["defined)",{},"message searches.","subject, etc . . .)",{}]},{"entry":["Alert on","Messaging","1. Learn about abnormal message","Date time range,","Notification"]},{"entry":["Abnormal","Administrator","volumes for a user, server, connector, or","server\/queue,",{}]},{"entry":["Message",{},"queue.","connector, use",{}]},{"entry":["Volume",{},"2. Be alerted of a potential problem",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"and investigate (see next scenario).",{},{}]},{"entry":["Investigate","Messaging","1. Investigate a period of abnormal","Date time range,","Topology, list of"]},{"entry":["Abnormal","Administrator","message volume (could be on a user,","target filter (server,","messages with"]},{"entry":["Message",{},"server, connector, or a queue).","queue, user, filter)","details, message"]},{"entry":["Volume",{},"Determine if its spam being received or",{},"volumes grouped"]},{"entry":[{},{},"sent or some other problem that needs to",{},"by time"]},{"entry":[{},{},"be addressed.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Investigate","Messaging","1. Investigate suspicious messages","Date time range","List of messages"]},{"entry":["Potential Spam","Administrator","being sent from within my organization",{},"and message"]},{"entry":["Messages",{},"(open relay or spoofed header). Are",{},"details,"]},{"entry":["Originating",{},"messages being sent with open relays",{},"server\/relay"]},{"entry":["from my",{},"within my organization?",{},"involved, client"]},{"entry":["Organization",{},"2. Stop abusive behavior by users.",{},"IPs"]},{"entry":["View Internal","IT Manager,","1. Understand the load distribution of","Infrastructure","Topological"]},{"entry":["Infrastructure","Messaging","my internal messaging infrastructure","components (user","View, Charts for"]},{"entry":["Distribution","Administrator","components (servers, stores,","defined), date","trending of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"connectors). Budget for growth","range","messages load"]},{"entry":[{},{},"accordingly and optimize perfomiance."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0143"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 4"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"USER",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["USE CASE","PERSONA","POTENTIAL OBJECTIVE(S)","INPUT","OUTPUT"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Understand","Manager","1. Track average and maximum","List of mailboxes,","Trending with"]},{"entry":["User Response",{},"response times of members of my","AD groups, filters","charts with"]},{"entry":["Times",{},"department (or another group) to","(such as types of","overall or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u201ccustomer\u201d messages overtime.","messages, internal","individual"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Track compliance against my","vs. external,","response times,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"customer SLA's.","recipient","list of messages"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Identify areas for improvement","domains), date","(including"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and measure performance.","range","message level"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"details), Pivot"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Table to explore"]},{"entry":["Investigate","Manager,","1. Review all communications","Target user, types","Details of all"]},{"entry":["Employee","Messaging","between one of my employees and","of messages to","communications"]},{"entry":["Communications","Administrator","another user or domain Respond to a","include\/exclude,","by my employee"]},{"entry":[{},{},"complaintor review the usage of my","date range","(list of messages"]},{"entry":[{},{},"employee for HR purposes",{},"and the ability to"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"access message"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"level details)"]},{"entry":["Measure User","Manager","1. Track and compare the","List of mailboxes","Productivity"]},{"entry":["Productivity",{},"productivity profiles (volume of","or AD groups, a","report (message"]},{"entry":[{},{},"messages sent and received and the","selected group of","volumes and"]},{"entry":[{},{},"response times) of my employees and","employees that","response times)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"groups of employees,","can be compared","and trending,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Gain insight into my employees'",{},"statistics such as"]},{"entry":[{},{},"time and performance as it pertains to",{},"averages, pivot"]},{"entry":[{},{},"messaging usage.",{},"for exploring"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Compare productivity from a",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"messaging perspective of users within",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"a group.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Identify areas for improvement.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Track After-","Manager,","1. Regularly review a list of","Customer","Text - list of"]},{"entry":["Hours","Administrator","messages that arrive during a certain","Definition of","messages (with"]},{"entry":["Communications",{},"time of day.","\u2018Time of Day\u2019,","details), volume"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Bill my customers extra for","Senders,","report, ability"]},{"entry":[{},{},"after-hours support.","recipients,","export"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Audit the usage of the messaging","message date",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"system after hours.","range, time of day",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"4. Look at my messaging load","range, message",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"during a specific time of day.","filter defining",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"what types",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"messages to",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"include (i.e. don't",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"include SPAM",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"messages)",{}]},{"entry":["Track Outlook","Manager","Report on user Outlook Category and","Recipients,","Aggregate ratios,"]},{"entry":["Categorization",{},"Flag usage.","Category and\/or","Charts to trend of"]},{"entry":["& Flag",{},"Measure adherence to business or","Flag, Date Range,","overall or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"workflow processes and directives.","Message Filter","individual"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(type of messages","Outlook category"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"to include)","usage, trend"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"individual"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Categories,"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"ability to drill"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"into individual"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"messages, Pivot"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Table to explore"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"the categories use"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"among groups"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"and individuals."]},{"entry":["Track User",{},"1. Track by status of tasks (usage",{},{}]},{"entry":["Outlook",{},"number per each status available).",{},{}]},{"entry":["Actions",{},"2. Track task of attaching pictures,",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"images and attachments to a task in",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Outlook.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Track by address types and",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"phone types (usage number per each",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"address\/phone type.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"4. Track Untimed tasks in Outlook",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"(e.g., where start date and due date is",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"equal to none.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"5. Determine average activities and",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"tasks created per day.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"6. Ascertain the current usage of",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"notes in Outlook. For example, can we",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"get examples of what people are",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"putting",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"in the notes section?",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"7. Track the journal capability",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"attached to contacts in Outlook. Is",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"anyone using this? Can we get",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"examples of",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"this?",{},{}]},{"entry":["Audit","Manager","1. Check if a particular type of","Type of message","List of messages"]},{"entry":["Adherence to",{},"message (TBD by the customer) is","(i.e. class","(daily\/weekly"]},{"entry":["Message",{},"being sent to the appropriate people as","definition, e.g.","reports), list of"]},{"entry":["Addressing",{},"per a predefined","subject string","non-compliant"]},{"entry":["Rules",{},"business process","identifier),","users, aggregate"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Track adherence to company","recipient,","volume"]},{"entry":[{},{},"policy","recipient",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"addressing type",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(BCC, CC),",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"sender, date range",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"List of messages",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"(daily\/weekly",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"reports), list of",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"non-compliant",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"users, aggregate",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"volume",{}]},{"entry":["View","Manager,","1. View the distribution of","Recipients,","Charts for trend"]},{"entry":["Customer,","Executive","messages for specified recipients and","sender, date","of messages"]},{"entry":["Partner and",{},"external domains over a given period,","range, defined","volume (all or"]},{"entry":["Competitive",{},"2. Understand my communications","recipient groups","top 10),"]},{"entry":["Communications",{},"with Customers, Partners, and","and\/or external","messages from"]},{"entry":["(Distribution &",{},"Competitors. For example, determine","domains","pre-defined"]},{"entry":["Trends)",{},"who is my",{},"group, group by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"business talking to and why.",{},"recipients or"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Understand the relationship with",{},"domains, Pivot"]},{"entry":[{},{},"your customers, partners, and",{},"Viewer for"]},{"entry":[{},{},"competitors.",{},"exploring the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"data."]},{"entry":["Audit","Manager,","1. View message details of","Recipients,","Message List and"]},{"entry":["Customer,","Executive","communication with a specific","sender, date","Details"]},{"entry":["Partner or",{},"partner, customer, or competitor","range, defined",{}]},{"entry":["Competitive",{},"2. Audit or understand my","recipient groups",{}]},{"entry":["Communications",{},"company's communication on a","and\/or external",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"particular partner, customer, or","domains",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"competitor event or issue.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Understand","Management,","1. Understand the distribution of","Personal","Charts for trend"]},{"entry":["Personal","Messaging","messages going to and from personal","messaging system","of messages"]},{"entry":["Messaging","Administrator","messaging systems such as Yahoo!,","(as defined by the","volume (all or"]},{"entry":["System Use",{},"Hotmail, and Gmail.","user), recipients,","top 10),"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Measure employee productivity","sender, date","messages from"]},{"entry":[{},{},"and gauge use and misuse of the","range, defined","pre-defined"]},{"entry":[{},{},"corporate messaging system.","recipient groups","group, group by"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Identify usage trends.","and\/or external","recipients or"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"domains","domains, Pivot"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"Viewer to find"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"out top personal"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"messaging"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"users\/groups, etc."]},{"entry":["View Relayed","Management","1. As a messaging provider,","Message type","Charts for"]},{"entry":["Traffic",{},"understand volumes of re-routed","(filter of messages","trending"]},{"entry":[{},{},"messages.","to include), Date","aggregate"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Understand how my messaging","range","volume"]},{"entry":[{},{},"business is performing.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Understand","Manager","1. View communication trends","Target Users and","Charts for"]},{"entry":["Communication",{},"between users and groups in my","Groups, date","trending of"]},{"entry":["Patterns in",{},"organization; includes multiple","range, Message","messages"]},{"entry":["my",{},"communication platforms. 2. ","Type Filter","volume,"]},{"entry":["Organization",{},"Compare the number of",{},"Topological"]},{"entry":[{},{},"messages sent to a particular users,",{},"Views, Pivot"]},{"entry":[{},{},"divided by TO:, CC:, BCC:",{},"View"]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Understand how my business is",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"operating (e.g. what \u201csilo groups\u201d",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"exist, which groups are talking to most",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"to each other).",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"4. Understand how my business is",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"adhering to corporate directives.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Understand the","Management,","1. Trend and see the use of","Message Type","Charts for trends"]},{"entry":["Usage of","IT Manager","different types of messages in my","(user defined),","of different types"]},{"entry":["Different",{},"messaging system.","Date range","of messages,"]},{"entry":["Types of",{},"2. Determine the ratio of internal",{},"Pivot Viewer"]},{"entry":["Messages",{},"vs. external communication.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"3. Get insight into specific business",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"usage of my messaging system.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Assess Mobile","Management","1. See what messages were stored","Date range,","List of message"]},{"entry":["Data Leakage",{},"or sent from a mobile device.","inbound\/outbound,","and message"]},{"entry":["Risk",{},"2. Perform a mobile device data","message type","details. Charts"]},{"entry":[{},{},"leakage audit.","(sender, recipient, ","for mobile"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"etc . . . , \u201cmobile","message usage"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"message\u201d is",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"inherent)",{}]},{"entry":["Track Implicit","IT Manager,","1. Track the percentage of","Message subject,","Distribution of"]},{"entry":["Acknowledge-","Management","employees that have received and ","sender","message status"]},{"entry":["ment of",{},"read an important message.",{},"(received, read,"]},{"entry":["Important",{},"2. Report to HR or legal the",{},"deleted without"]},{"entry":["Message",{},"progress and completion of the",{},"being read), with"]},{"entry":[{},{},"distribution of the message.",{},"the option of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"detailed list of"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"status per people"]},{"entry":["Track","HR Manager,","1. Track the distribution path of a","Message subject,","Full message"]},{"entry":["Sensitive","IT Manager,","sensitive message.","sender, date time","delivery path"]},{"entry":["Message","Management","2. Audit unauthorized distribution","range, type","(people &"]},{"entry":["Leakage",{},"of sensitive information,","(FWD, etc.)","endpoint) of the"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"message"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"forwarding and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"delivery, and"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"actions taken by"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"users"]},{"entry":["Analyze Usage","Messaging","1. Understand who, and how many","Recipient(s), date","Count\/ratio of"]},{"entry":["of Encrypted","Administrator,","encrypted messages are being sent","range","encrypted"]},{"entry":["Message","Management","2. Ensure that the correct format is",{},"messages,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"being used on my classified\/non-",{},"message-detail"]},{"entry":[{},{},"classified networks",{},"on encrypted"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"messages."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0145","num":"0144"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"USER",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["USE CASE","PERSONA","POTENTIAL OBJECTIVE(S)","INPUT","OUTPUT"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Track CAN-","IT Manager,","1. Alert or report whenever external","Configure report","Alert (email"]},{"entry":["SPAM","Management","messages are sent with potentially","(domain and other","notification,"]},{"entry":["Message",{},"false header information (for example,","routing","dashboard)."]},{"entry":["Header",{},"From, To, Reply To or other routing","specifications)","Report (sender,"]},{"entry":["Compliance",{},"information that doesn't match",{},"recipient, # of"]},{"entry":[{},{},"corporate domains or other server",{},"recipients,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"configurations).",{},"message"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Ensure that my company is",{},"contents)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"adhering to CAN-SPAM requirements",{},{}]},{"entry":["Track CAN-","IT Manager,","1. Alert or report whenever external","Configure report","Alert (email"]},{"entry":["SPAM","Management","messages are sent without obligatory","(enter \u201cstatic\u201d","notification,"]},{"entry":["Message",{},"information (Physical postal address,","search strings)","dashboard),"]},{"entry":["Content",{},"disclosure that message is an ad,",{},"Report (sender,"]},{"entry":["Omissions",{},"information on opting out of mailing",{},"recipient,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"list).",{},"message"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Ensure that my company is",{},"contents, which"]},{"entry":[{},{},"adhering to CAN-SPAM",{},"string(s) missing)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"requirements.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Audit CAN-","IT Manager,","1. Ensure that a 3rd party","Domains, routing","Report (sender,"]},{"entry":["SPAM","Management","contractor who's sending marketing","info, required","recipient,"]},{"entry":["Compliance",{},"messages on my (ensure verified","strings","message"]},{"entry":["for 3rd Party",{},"header information and required",{},"contents, which"]},{"entry":["Mailers",{},"content strings),",{},"string(s) missing)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Ensure that my company is",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"adhering to CAN-SPAM",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"requirements.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Monitor","IT Manager,","1. Alert or report whenever","Configure report","Alert (email"]},{"entry":["Outgoing\/","Management","outgoing or incoming messages are","(specify likely","notification,"]},{"entry":["Incoming",{},"sent containing unauthorized personal","string formats)","dashboard),"]},{"entry":["Messages",{},"data (such as CC numbers).",{},"Report (sender,"]},{"entry":["for Credit Card",{},"2. Ensure adherence to PCI-DSS",{},"recipient, flagged"]},{"entry":["#s (PCI-DSS)",{},"requirements.",{},"string, report\/"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"allow)"]},{"entry":["Monitor","IT Manager,","1. Alert or report whenever","Configure report","Alert (email"]},{"entry":["Routing of","Management","outgoing or incoming messages are","(specify identity","notification,"]},{"entry":["Sensitive",{},"sent containing specific corporate","strings)","dashboard),"]},{"entry":["Information",{},"information not intended for",{},"Report (sender,"]},{"entry":[{},{},"distribution (Financial disclosures,",{},"recipient, flagged"]},{"entry":[{},{},"trade secrets, IPR).",{},"string)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Ensure adherence to the",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"USAPATRIOT requirements.",{},{}]},{"entry":["Monitor","IT Manager,","1. Audit the messaging","Report criteria,","Executive\/"]},{"entry":["Overall","Management","infrastructure for the purpose of","specify network","Detailed Report"]},{"entry":["Messaging",{},"general risk-management and","components,","for risk areas,"]},{"entry":["Environment",{},"mitigation against system health","compliance","overall risk"]},{"entry":["to Identify",{},"Identify failures, threats, intrusions,","benchmarks","benchmark,"]},{"entry":["Potential",{},"viruses, or other vulnerabilities that",{},"export"]},{"entry":["Vulnerabilities",{},"may impact confidence in the integrity",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"of the system.",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"2. Perform regular assessments of",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"risk will assist in meeting corporate",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"commitments for Sarbanes-Oxley\/",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Gramm-Leach-Billey, Basel, etc."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"In various embodiments, many of the principles described above can be further leveraged to facilitate data loss prevention (DLP). In a typical embodiment, a cross-platform DLP system as described herein enables utilization of cross-platform DLP policies. For purposes of this patent application, a DLP policy refers to a standard or guideline designed, at least in part, to prevent, detect, or mitigate data loss. By way of example, DLP policies can restrict a number or size of communications, participants in communications, contents of communications, particular communication patterns, etc.","For purposes of this patent application, a cross-platform DLP policy refers to a DLP policy that can be enforced, monitored, and\/or applied across multiple heterogeneous communications platforms. In many cases, the heterogeneous communications platforms may provide a certain degree of native DLP functionality. In other cases, some or all of the heterogeneous platforms may provide no native DLP functionality. To the extent native DLP functionality is provided, the heterogeneous communications platforms generally use an assortment of non-standard data structures and formats to contain a DLP policy.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0148","num":"0147"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIGS. 1-2"],"b":["1100","1100","130","120","104","106","122","130","120","104","106","122","1100","1146"]},"In general, each of the internal data sources  and each of the external data sources  can be considered a distinct communications platform that is internal and external, respectively. The cross-platform DLP system  communicates with the internal data sources  over the intranet  and with the external data sources  over the network . In certain embodiments, the cross-platform DLP system  is operable to interact with the BIM system  over either the intranet  or the network  as illustrated. In certain other embodiments, the cross-platform DLP system  can be contained within the BIM system  such that no communication over the intranet  or the network  needs to occur. In general, the cross-platform DLP system  collaborates with the BIM system , the internal data sources , and the external data sources  to implement cross-platform DLP policies. An example of the cross-platform DLP system  will be described in greater detail with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0150","num":"0149"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1146","1146","1248","1260","1248","1248","1260","1248"]},"As part of performing their respective functionality, the DLP detection engine  and the DLP management console  are operable to communicate with communications platforms . The communications platforms , in general, are representative of the internal data sources  and the external data sources  as illustrated in . For ease of illustration and description, the internal data sources  and the external data sources  are shown collectively as the communications platforms .","In the illustrated embodiment, the communications platforms  include an application programming interface (API) A , an API B , and an API C (collectively, APIs ). The APIs  may each be considered a logical encapsulation of functions and operations provided by a distinct communications platform of the communications platforms . In many cases, it may be that such functions and operations are not exposed by each of the communications platforms  via a common API but rather via a plurality of native APIs and\/or access interfaces. It should be appreciated that some or all of the communications platforms may not provide any API. Likewise, although the APIs  are shown for illustrative purposes, it should be appreciated that the communications platforms  can include any number of APIs and any number of communications platforms.","Each of the APIs  provides an interface to native DLP support provided by a given communications platform of the communications platforms . Examples of native DLP support that can be provided by the given communications platform include specifying a native DLP policy in a structure and format understood by that communications platform, activating a native DLP policy, implementing enforcement actions allowed by that communications platform (e.g., placing restrictions on a user or group of users), and\/or the like. It should be appreciated that the APIs  may not provide homogenous functionality. For example, the API A might permit certain enforcement actions but might not include any functionality for specifying and\/or activating native DLP policies. Continuing this example, the API B might include all such functionality. By way of further example, different APIs of the APIs  may enable different enforcement actions and\/or specification or selection of different types of native DLP policies.","In a typical embodiment, the cross-platform DLP system  enables a common interface into the APIs  via a platform adaptor A , a platform adaptor B , and a platform adaptor C (collectively, platform adaptors ). In similar fashion to the APIs , the number of platform adaptors  is illustrative in nature. Each of the platform adaptors  typically maps a standard set of functionality to corresponding sets of calls to the APIs . In that way, the platform adaptors  can be collectively considered a standard API that is operable to be called, for example, by components of the DLP detection engine  and the DLP management console . The standard API of the platform adaptors  can include, for example, functions that specify a native DLP policy on a given communications platform, functions that activate a native DLP policy, functions that implement specific enforcement actions, etc. By way of example, the platform adaptor A can map each call of the standard API to a corresponding API call on the API A to the extent such a corresponding API call exists. The platform adaptor A can include, for example, a capabilities call that results in all capabilities of the API A being returned. The capabilities can include, for example, features of the standard API that the API A supports. The platform adaptor B and the platform adaptor C can be similarly configured relative to the API B and the API C , respectively.","In the illustrated embodiment, the DLP detection engine  includes a native DLP detector , a policy abstraction module , a custom DLP detector , a DLP risk profiler , and a DLP context module . The policy abstraction module  provides an interface for an appropriate user such as, for example, an administrator, to create and\/or activate cross-platform DLP policies. The policy abstraction module  typically creates the cross-platform DLP policies in a standardized policy format. The standardized policy format can generally be any format for specifying rules and\/or Boolean conditions. In some cases, the standardized policy format may correspond to a format natively supported by one or more of the communications platforms . In a typical embodiment, how the cross-platform DLP policies are activated on the communications platforms  can depend on, among other things, an extent to which each of the communications platforms  provides DLP support, administrator preference, etc.","In many cases, some or all of the communications platforms  may provide at least some native DLP support. In these cases, if it is desired to activate a given cross-platform DLP policy natively on the communications platforms , the policy abstraction module  can provide the given cross-platform DLP policy in a corresponding call to the platform adaptors . In a typical embodiment, the platform adaptors  are operable to receive the given cross-platform DLP policy in the standardized policy format and re-specify it in a respective native format expected by each of the communications platforms , for example, by translating the given cross-platform DLP policy from the standardized policy format to the respective native format. In some cases, some of the communications platforms  may have a pre-existing native DLP policy that is deemed equivalent to a given cross-platform DLP policy. In these cases, no new native DLP policy usually needs to be specified. Rather, a corresponding platform adaptor of the platform adaptors  can maintain a mapping to the equivalent native DLP policy. Once the given cross-platform DLP policy has been created and\/or natively activated, as appropriate, the native DLP detector  can perform DLP detection. Operation of the native DLP detector  will be described in greater detail below.","As mentioned above, some or all of the communications platforms  may either provide no DLP support or provide DLP support that is insufficient in some respect for natively activating the given cross-platform DLP policy. In addition, even if sufficient DLP support is provided by the communications platforms , it may otherwise be desirable by the administrator for the cross-platform DLP system  to centrally activate the given cross-platform DLP policy for a particular set of communications platforms of the communications platforms . Central activation typically means that, as to the particular set of communications platforms, violation detection is performed centrally by the cross-platform DLP system  without relying on native DLP functionality, if any, of the particular set of communications platforms. Under these circumstances, the policy abstraction module  can provide the given cross-platform DLP policy to the custom DLP detector  for storage and implementation. The custom DLP detector  will be described in greater detail below.","In a typical embodiment, the policy abstraction module  centrally maintains all cross-platform DLP policies, for example, in a database, persistent file-based storage, and\/or the like. In some cases, all cross-platform DLP policies can be maintained on the BIM system , for example, in one or more of the databases . In addition, the policy abstraction module  generally tracks how each cross-platform DLP policy is activated on each of the communications platforms . As described above, cross-platform DLP policies can be activated natively on the communications platforms , centrally activated by the cross-platform DLP system , and\/or a combination thereof. The manner of activation can be maintained by the policy abstraction module  as part of its tracking functionality.","The native DLP detector  typically manages violation detection for native activations of cross-platform DLP policies. In a typical embodiment, the native DLP detector  can import violations of native DLP policies, for example, from logs that are generated by such platforms. In some cases, the logs can be accessed via, for example, the platform adaptors  and the APIs . In other cases, it may be possible to access such logs without the platform adaptors  and\/or the APIs  if, for example, a network storage location of the logs is known.","The custom DLP detector  typically manages violation detection for central activations of cross-platform DLP policies. In a typical embodiment, the custom DLP detector  centrally performs violation detection on communications centrally collected and stored by the BIM system  as described above. In this fashion, with respect to the central activations, the cross-platform DLP policy can be applied and evaluated against such communications for purposes of identifying violations.","The DLP risk profiler  is operable to identify quasi-violations, assess risk of cross-platform DLP policies being violated and\/or quasi-violated, and\/or the like. A quasi-violation, as used herein, refers to user activity or behavior that does not literally violate a given policy but that is measurably and configurably close to doing so. An actual violation, as used herein, refers to user activity or behavior that literally violates a given policy. For purposes of this disclosure, the term violation can encompass both actual violations and quasi-violations. What constitutes measurably close can be empirically defined, for example, via statistical, mathematical, and\/or rule-based methods.","For instance, a particular cross-platform DLP policy could prohibit sending files (e.g., email attachments) that are larger than a maximum size (e.g., ten megabytes). According to this example, measurably close could be empirically defined as being within a certain percentage of the maximum size (e.g., five percent), being within a certain numeric range relative to the maximum size (e.g., greater than nine megabytes but less than ten megabytes), etc. Measurably close could be further defined to include a repetition factor. For example, quasi-violations could be limited to cases where a given user has met the above-described empirical definition at least a specified number of times (e.g., five) within a specified window of time (e.g., one hour, one day, one week, etc.). Quasi-violations could also be limited to such cases where a number of times that the user has sent such files is within a certain number of standard deviations of an expected value for the specified window of time. It should be appreciated that similar principles could be applied to automatically identify quasi-violations for other types of cross-platform DLP policies that specify, for example, values and\/or thresholds.","In various embodiments, the DLP risk profiler  can also trigger a quasi-violation based on, for example, an assessment that a cross-platform DLP policy is in imminent risk of being violated. For example, certain DLP policies may relate to values that tend to increase over time or that exhibit a pattern (e.g., linear or exponential). For example, a given policy could limit each user to a certain quantity of instant messages per day (e.g., 100). If it appears that a particular user is projected to reach the certain quantity (e.g., based on a linear trend) or is within a defined range of the certain quantity (e.g., ninety-five instant messages before 2:00 pm local time), a quasi-violation could be triggered. A quasi-violation could also be triggered if, for example, a characteristic precursor to an actual violation has been detected. For example, a particular cross-platform DLP policy could specify that communications to customer A cannot occur via email. In that case, a characteristic precursor to an actual violation could be the appearance in a user's email contacts of an email address specifying Customer A's domain (e.g., example.com).","In various embodiments, the DLP risk profiler  can also be utilized for on-demand risk assessment. For example, designated users (as described further below), administrators, and\/or the like can use the DLP risk profiler  to perform a risk query. In various embodiments, the risk query can be equivalent to a cross-platform DLP policy. For example, the risk query can be embody a prospective cross-platform DLP policy. An administrator, for example, could use the risk query to search communications collected by the BIM system  to determine a business impact of implementing the cross-platform DLP policy. The risk query is typically tailored to identify information related to the business impact. After execution of the risk query, the information is returned to the administrator. Based on the information returned by the risk query, the administrator could determine, inter alia, a volume of users exhibiting behaviors prohibited by the prospective cross-platform DLP policy, an overall number of past communications within a certain period of time that would have been implicated by the prospective cross-platform DLP policy, which departments or organizational units would be most impacted by the prospective cross-platform DLP policy, etc.","The DLP context module  is operable to dynamically acquire context information responsive, for example, to a detected violation. In various embodiments, what constitutes context information for a violation of a given cross-platform DLP policy can be pre-defined as a query package as described above. Responsive to a violation of the given cross-platform DLP policy, the query package can be executed to yield the context information. An example of defining and executing a query package will be described in greater detail with respect to . Also, in some embodiments, all or part of what constitutes context information can be specified, for example, by designated users upon receipt of an alert. In these embodiments, the designated users can request particular data points that are of interest given the contents of the alert. It should be appreciated that the context information can be acquired from any of the communications platforms . For example, if a user were to violate the cross-platform DLP policy on an email platform, the context information could include information related to the user's contemporaneous communications on each of an instant-messaging platform, an enterprise social-networking platform, and\/or any of the communications platforms .","The DLP management console  includes a user permission manager , a reporting module , and a credentials module . In a typical embodiment, the user permission manager  maintains an access profile for each user of the cross-platform DLP system . The access profile can be created based on, for example, directory information (e.g., Active Directory). In some embodiments, the access profile can be created by an administrator.","The access profile typically specifies a scope of violations that the user is authorized to view and\/or for which the user should receive alerts or reports (e.g., all staff, all employees beneath the user in an employee hierarchy, etc.). The access profile also typically specifies enforcement actions that the user is allowed to take if, for example, DLP violations have occurred. In some cases, the user's ability to take the enforcement action may be conditioned on violation(s) having occurred. In other cases, some or all of the enforcement actions may be available to the user unconditionally. For purposes of this disclosure, a given user may be considered a designated user with respect to those cross-platform DLP policies for which the given user is authorized to view violations, receive reports or alerts on violations, and\/or take enforcement actions.","The reporting module  provides an interface to display to designated users information pertaining to violations of cross-platform DLP policies and any context information. In various embodiments, the reporting module  is operable to initiate alerts or present reports using, for example, any of the communications platforms . The reports and\/or alerts can be presented using, for example, SMS text message, email, instant message, a dashboard interface, social media messages, web pages, etc. The reporting module  can also provide via, for example, a dashboard interface, any enforcement actions that each designated user is authorized to take. The enforcement actions can include, for example, blocking particular domains (e.g., example.com), suspending a user account on all or selected ones of the communications platforms , blocking sending communications, blocking receiving communications, and\/or the like. In some embodiments, the enforcement actions, can include a \u201ckill\u201d option that suspends a user or group of users' access to all of the communications platforms .","The credentials module  typically stores administrative credentials for accessing each of the communications platforms  via, for example, the APIs . In various embodiments, the credentials module  enables designated users to execute administrative actions (e.g., enforcement actions) that the designated users would ordinarily lack permission to perform, thereby saving time and resources of administrators. The user permission manager  can determine, via access profiles, enforcement actions that the designated users are authorized to perform. Responsive to selections by the designated users, the credentials module  can execute those enforcement actions on the communications platforms  using the stored administrative credentials.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0170","num":"0169"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 11"],"b":["1300","1300","1300","130","1248","1260","1300","1300","1100","1146","1300","1300","1146"]},"At block , the DLP detection engine  activates a cross-platform DLP policy on a set of communications platforms of the communications platforms  for enforcement against a set of users (e.g., a user or group of users). In typical embodiment, the block  includes the policy abstraction module  interacting with an administrator to select and\/or create the cross-platform DLP policy, select the set of users, and choose the set of communications platforms. In some cases, the set of communications platforms may include only one of the communications platforms . As described above, relative to the set of communications platforms, the cross-platform DLP policy can be centrally activated, natively activated, or a combination thereof. In the case of native activation, the cross-platform DLP policy can include initiating a native DLP policy on one or more of the set of communications platforms. An example of how the cross-platform DLP policy can be created will be described with respect to .","At block , the DLP detection engine  monitors communications of the set of users on the set of communications platforms for violations of the cross-platform DLP policy. In various embodiments, the block  can include monitoring for actual violations, quasi-violations, or both. In a typical embodiment, as part of the block , the native DLP detector  tracks violations of any native activations of the cross-platform DLP policy. The native activations can include, for example, native DLP policies that are a translated form of or are deemed equivalent to the cross-platform DLP policy. In a typical embodiment, the custom DLP detector  centrally detects violations of any central activations of the cross-platform DLP policy. The central detection typically includes evaluating, against the cross-platform DLP policy, communications collected by the BIM system  that correspond to the central activations. In addition, the block  can also include the DLP risk profiler  monitoring for quasi-violations of the cross-platform DLP policy as described above.","At decision block , the DLP detection engine  determines whether a violation has been detected, for example, by the native DLP detector , the custom DLP detector , and\/or the DLP risk profiler . Responsive to a detected violation, the process  proceeds to block . Otherwise, the process  returns to the block  and proceeds as described above. At the block , the DLP context module  dynamically acquires context information for the detected violation. An example of how context information can be specified will be described with respect to . An example of dynamically acquiring context information will be described with respect to .","At block , the DLP management console  publishes violation information to at least one designated user. The at least one designated user can include, for example, a manager of a user who initiated the violation. The violation information can include, for example, information associated with the detected violation, the context information, and\/or the like. The information associated with the detected violation can include, for example, user-identification information (e.g., name, user name, ID, etc.), violation type (e.g., identification of the particular violation if multiple violation types are allowed by the cross-platform DLP policy), a time of the violation, a communication that constituted the violation, a communication identifier for the communication that constituted the violation, and\/or other information that is readily accessible at a time of violation detection. In a typical embodiment, the block  results in the violation information being made accessible to the at least one designated user. In many cases, the block  may include providing the at least one designated user with options for selecting one or more enforcement actions as a result of the detected violation. An example of publishing violation information will be described with respect to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0175","num":"0174"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 11","FIG. 13"],"b":["1400","1400","1400","130","1248","1260","1400","1400","1100","1146","1400","1302"]},"At block , the policy abstraction module  defines a cross-platform DLP policy. The block  can include the policy abstraction module  interacting with an administrator to establish, for example, a name and\/or unique identifier for the cross-platform DLP policy. The block  can include, for example, empirically defining how the cross-platform DLP policy can be violated responsive to input from the administrator. The empirical definition can include defining both actual violations and quasi-violations. In some embodiments, definitions of quasi-violations can be automatically derived from the definitions of actual violations (e.g., as percentages, ranges, standard deviations relative to expected values, etc.). In some embodiments, the cross-platform DLP policy can be defined in terms of a native DLP policy of a particular communications platform of the communications platforms . In these embodiments, the administrator can be permitted to identify or provide the native DLP policy, which policy the policy abstraction module  can then import and re-specify in a standardized format (e.g., by translation).","At block , the policy abstraction module  identifies one or more contextual parameters. The contextual parameters generally represent variable, violation-specification information that will be used as a basis for generating context information. The contextual parameters can include, for example, user-identification information (e.g., name, user name, ID, etc.), violation type (e.g., identification of the particular violation if multiple violation types are allowed by the cross-platform DLP policy), a time of the violation, a communication that constituted the violation, a communication identifier for the communication that constituted the violation, and\/or other information that is readily accessible at a time of violation detection.","At block , the policy abstraction module  generates a query package that can be used to dynamically generate context information responsive to a detected violation. The query package can be specified, for example, as described above with respect to . In general, the query package is tailored to request, in terms of the contextual parameters, context information for violations of the cross-platform DLP policy. The requested context information can include, for example, prior violations by a violating user within a certain period of time, communications by or to the violating user within a certain period of time before and\/or after the violation (e.g., including communications on any of the communications platforms ), the violating user's communication patterns (e.g., who the violating user communicates with most, the violating user's volume of communications, top topics discussed in communications, etc.), and\/or the like. The requested context information can also include aggregated context information such as, for example, a number of violations of the cross-platform DLP platform across a given organization or enterprise, a number of violations within the violating user's department or organization unit, most frequently taken enforcement actions by other managers responsive to violations of the cross-platform DLP policy, and\/or the like.","At block , the policy abstraction module  configures a reporting workflow for violations of the cross-platform DLP policy. The configuring can include, for example, defining one or more designated users who can view violations, receive alerts or reports of violations, and\/or take enforcement actions responsive to violations. In some cases, the one or more designated users may be defined generally using, for example, directory services (e.g., Active Directory). For example, the one or more designated users could include each direct manager of a violating user. In other cases, the one or more designated users can be defined as specific users for each user that is to be covered by the policy (e.g., a manually designated user for each user or group users impacted by the cross-platform DLP policy). The configuration at the block  can also include, for example, establishing one or more enforcement actions that can be taken by the one or more designated users. In various embodiments, an access profile for each of the designated users can be used to establish which enforcement actions each designated user is permitted to take.","At block , the policy abstraction module stores the cross-platform DLP policy. The storage can include, for example, storage of the query package as linked to the cross-platform DLP policy. In various embodiments, the storage at the block  can be in memory accessible to the policy abstraction module , in the databases  of , and\/or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0180"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 11","FIG. 13"],"b":["1500","1250","1254","1256","1500","1500","130","1248","1260","1500","1500","1100","1146","1500","1308"]},"At block , the DLP context module  retrieves a query package that is linked to the cross-platform DLP policy. In a typical embodiment, the query package may have been generated at the block  of . At block , the DLP context module  accesses values of contextual parameters that are needed for the query package. The values can typically be obtained from information associated with the detected violation. The information associated with the detected violation is typically obtained by the native DLP detector , the custom DLP detector , and\/or the DLP risk profiler , as appropriate. At block , the DLP context module  executes the query package, for example, on the BIM system . At block , the DLP context module  receives the context information responsive to the execution of the query package.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0183","num":"0182"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 11","FIG. 13"],"b":["1600","1250","1254","1256","1600","1600","130","1248","1260","1600","1600","1100","1146","1600","1310"]},"At block , the user permission manager  determines which enforcement actions that each designated user has permission to perform. In a typical embodiment, the determination can be made by ascertaining which enforcement actions of a set of potential enforcement actions are allowed by each designated user's access profile. At block , the reporting module  provides an interface for each designated user to select the determined enforcement actions. The interface can be, for example, a web interface, an interface on one of the communications platforms , and\/or the like. At decision block , the reporting module  determines whether a designated user has selected one of the determined enforcement actions. If not, the process  returns to the block  and proceeds as described above. If it is determined at the decision  that the designated user has selected one of the determined enforcement actions, the process  proceeds to block . In a typical embodiment, the selected enforcement action can be made with respect to one or more communications platforms of the communications platforms . At block , the credentials module  causes the selected enforcement action to be executed with administrator privileges on each of the one or more communications platforms. At block , the executed enforcement action is recorded, for example, in one or more of the databases . The block  can include recording, for example, the executed enforcement, information associated with the detected violation, any context information, and\/or the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0185","num":"0184"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1776","1776","1776"]},"Table 6 below provides examples of laws and standards from which, in various embodiments, cross-platform DLP standards can be derived and implemented.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0186"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["USE CASE ","DESCRIPTION ","APPLIES TO","DLP OPPORTUNITY"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Sarbanes-","Enacted in the US in 2002. It","US\/Global","Provide monitoring and assessment for "]},{"entry":["Oxley (Sarbox)","targets any company that is","Publicly traded","messaging security, virus protection, "]},{"entry":[{},"publicly traded on an ","companies","intrusion detection, vulnerability "]},{"entry":[{},"American stock exchange. Its ",{},"management, and user authentication. "]},{"entry":[{},"purpose is to ensure the ",{},"Provide audit trails for error logs, system "]},{"entry":[{},"accuracy of the company's ",{},"health, and asset management (?). "]},{"entry":[{},"financial information and the ",{},"Monitoring of business-critical messaging\/"]},{"entry":[{},"reliability of the systems that ",{},"collaboration software helps provide "]},{"entry":[{},"generate it. The challenge to ",{},"increased confidence in the integrity of the "]},{"entry":[{},"IT is to manage a secure and ",{},"network infrastructure. "]},{"entry":[{},"controlled infrastructure for ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"data, processes, and historical ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"information. While this act ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"applies to large or established ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"enterprises, it is high profile ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"around the world has had a ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"significant impact as to how ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"all businesses conduct ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"themselves. ",{},{}]},{"entry":["Gramm-Leach- ","Gramm-Leach-Billey (GLBA) ","US Finance","24 \u00d7 7 detection of security breaches and "]},{"entry":["Billey (GLBA) ","is a US act from 1999. It ","sector, Global","vulnerabilities and integrating with industry "]},{"entry":[{},"applies to any American ","finance ","standards such as Microsoft Baseline "]},{"entry":[{},"financial institution, large and",{},"Security Analyzer (MBSA) or other "]},{"entry":[{},"small. Its purpose is to ensure ",{},"enterprise-class security platforms. "]},{"entry":[{},"the integrity of financial and ",{},"Dashboards, alerts and notifications help "]},{"entry":[{},"client data. The role of IT is to ",{},"ensure communications availability, Patch "]},{"entry":[{},"implement systems for ",{},"assessment and management (?). "]},{"entry":[{},"security and authorized access, ",{},"Infrastructure reports are integral for "]},{"entry":[{},"and to build safeguards against ",{},"capacity and disaster planning. "]},{"entry":[{},"threats and hazards. Globally, ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"similar requirements are found ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"in The New Capital Accord ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"(Basel II) 1998\/2005. ",{},{}]},{"entry":["USA ","USAPATRIOT Act of 2001 ","US Any ","Identify potential vulnerabilities to "]},{"entry":["PATRIOT Act","applies to all US-based ","company\/ ","messaging access points. Identify "]},{"entry":["(USA ","companies and attempts to ","individual","messaging to unauthorized destinations. "]},{"entry":["PATRIOT) ","prevent the support and ",{},"Detect unauthorized access. Track the flow "]},{"entry":[{},"financing of terrorists. It also ",{},"of sensitive information. "]},{"entry":[{},"aims to prevent intellectual ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"property\/trade secrets from ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"being sent to certain ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"international locations. ",{},{}]},{"entry":["Federal Food","Federal Food & Drug 21- ","US Healthcare","Help managers to ensure secure "]},{"entry":["& Drug 21- ","CFR-11(21-CFR-11) is a US","sector ","environments and authenticated users. "]},{"entry":["CFR-11(21- ","law applies to any company ",{},"Infrastructure reports give "]},{"entry":["CFR-11 ","that is regulated by the Food ",{},"overall messaging network health checks to "]},{"entry":[{},"and Drug Administration ",{},"ensure the availability of data. "]},{"entry":[{},"(FDA). Its goal is to ensure the ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"security, integrity, and ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"availability of information. ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"This is of particular concern to ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"the health care industry that ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"relies on the accuracy of ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"patient\/product information. ",{},{}]},{"entry":["Payment Card","Payment Card Industry Data","Any global ","Monitor 24 \u00d7 7 any intrusion, or "]},{"entry":["Industry Data","Security Standard (PCI-DSS)","company ","unauthorized access, as well as system "]},{"entry":["Security ","was created in 2004 by the","accepting ","failures that could impact prompt response. "]},{"entry":["Standard (PCI-","major credit card companies to","credit card ","Ensure compliance of communications- "]},{"entry":["DSS) ","ensure that their merchants","payments ","based transactions. "]},{"entry":[{},"adhered to certain network ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"standards to protect against ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"vulnerabilities, and to protect ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"cardholders from fraud. The ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"standard applies to any CC- ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"processing merchant, and has ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"5 general goals: Build and ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"maintain a secure network; ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Protect transaction data; Guard ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"against vulnerabilities; ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Implement strong Access ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Control measures; and ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Regularly monitor and test ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"networks. Global Credit card ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"merchants ",{},{}]},{"entry":["Notification ","The purpose of the act is to ","Any US\/ ","Detect, investigate, and notify unauthorized "]},{"entry":["of Risk to ","ensure that any agency notifies","European","access, Remote management of "]},{"entry":["Personal Data","authorities if any personal ","company ","environments allow "]},{"entry":["Act ","information has been acquired ",{},"for rapid action against intrusion. Report "]},{"entry":["(NORPDA - ","by an unauthorized source. ",{},"regular security audits, health checks. "]},{"entry":["US 2003)","The impact to IT is to improve ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"security and reporting ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"systems. Similar laws in ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Europe include the European ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Data Protection Directive of ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"1995, among others. ",{},{}]},{"entry":["Health","This act applies to all US- ","Any company","Ensure security and availability of "]},{"entry":["Information","based health care providers.","Its handling ","messaging systems, as well as protecting "]},{"entry":["Portability &","purpose is to improve health","personal ","them from unauthorized use. "]},{"entry":["Accountability","care operations and to ensure","information & ",{}]},{"entry":["Act (HIPAA) ","patient record privacy. The","US Healthcare ",{}]},{"entry":["from 1996 ","impact to IT is to improve","sector ",{}]},{"entry":[{},"security and interoperability of ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"information systems, as well ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"as improve reporting systems. ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Related to this is the Personal ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Information Protection and ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Electronic Documents Act ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"(PIPEDA - Canada 2000). ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"Applying to all Canadian ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"companies and agencies, it ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"limits the use and disclosure of ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"personal information obtained ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"during the course of doing ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"business The onus on ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"management is to ensure ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"proper use of personal ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"information. {There is also a ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"significant EURO privacy act) ",{},{}]},{"entry":["CAN-SPAM","This act establishes email","US companies","Ensure Can-Spam laws are met. "]},{"entry":["Controlling the","standards for US-based ",{},{}]},{"entry":["Assault of ","companies. The act protects",{},{}]},{"entry":["Non-Solicited","users against false or ",{},{}]},{"entry":["Pornography","misleading message headers, ",{},{}]},{"entry":["And Marketing","and deceptive subject lines. ",{},{}]},{"entry":["Act from 2003","Senders must identify ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"outgoing mail as a commercial ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"(ad) message. Sender ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"identification must be accurate ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"and traceable (no spoof). Mail ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"cannot be sent using harvested ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"mail addresses. The message ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"must contain details about ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"where the message is ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"originating from, as well as ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"information on how the ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"recipient can \u201cunsubscribe\u201d to ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"future messages. Opt-out ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"requests from recipients must ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"be processed within 10 ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"business days. No fees can be ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"charged to unsubscribe a ",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"recipient. ",{},{}]},{"entry":["SAS-70 ","General compliance guidelines","US\/global","Ensure SAS-70 compliance. "]},{"entry":["Compliance","have been compiled by the ","companies ",{}]},{"entry":["requirements","auditing sector and published ",{},{}]},{"entry":["that can be","as SAS-70. The directive ",{},{}]},{"entry":["delivered ","highlights 7 areas that apply to ",{},{}]},{"entry":["efficiently and","IT Information and Systems ",{},{}]},{"entry":["effectively ","Management."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Although various embodiments of the method and apparatus of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description, it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed, but is capable of numerous rearrangements, modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete understanding of the method and apparatus of the present invention may be obtained by reference to the following Detailed Description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying Drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 17"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
