---
title: Airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay
abstract: An airborne hyperspectral scanning system with a reflective telecentric relay including a system housing fore-optics, mounted in the housing, an imaging spectrometer mounted in the housing, the imaging spectrometer comprising a spectrometer slit, the spectrometer slit having an exit side and an entrance side, a focal plane array, a fold mirror, and at least three spectrometer mirrors, ordered sequentially, and in optical alignment with each other, and a reflective telecentric relay, mounted in the housing between the fore-optics and the imaging spectrometer, the reflective telecentric relay comprising a collimator module, a scanning mirror module, and an objective module, the objective module being situated to receive intermediate image from the fore-optics and reflect a collimated beam to the scanning mirror image between the collimator module and the objective module, wherein the objective module is situated to form a telecentric image at the entrance of the spectrometer slit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09372115&OS=09372115&RS=09372115
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09372115
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140805
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. 11-c-0346 awarded by a classified agency. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.","1. Field of Invention","The present invention relates to airborne systems, and particularly to hyperspectral scanning systems incorporating relays.","2. Brief Description of the Related Art","Significant advances have been accomplished in the development of airborne hyperspectral systems. The hyperspectral sensor is a major part of airborne surveillance systems. The airborne sensor requires high performance optics that provides broad spectral coverage on over a deployed field of view (FOV). High spectral and spatial resolution also is required to detect and recognize ground targets from high altitude.","Typical airborne hyperspectral optical system consists of fore-optics, relay (or reimaging optical system) and spectrometer.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,886,953 (May 3, 2005) discloses imaging all-reflective spectrometer which consists of objective module in a form of three mirror anastigmat (TMA) or in a form of five powered mirrors and collimating-and-imaging module which comprises a set of three powered mirrors. The intermediate image is created between the objective module secondary and tertiary mirrors and intermediate pupil is created before the collimating-and-imaging module entrance slit. System includes imaging detector which receives a portion of the objective module output, and a hyper-spectral imaging detector that receives a portion of the output of the collimating-and-imaging module. There is no telecentric pattern of light at the intermediate pupil plane and cross field scanning cannot be implemented.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,880,834 (Mar. 9, 1999) discloses an imaging system having all-reflective fore-optics in the form of TMA, and an imaging Offner spectrometer. The fore-optics forms an intermediate image at a slit before the spectrometer. An off-axis primary spectrometer mirror delivers radiation onto a secondary spectrometer mirror\/diffraction grating, and a tertiary spectrometer mirror reflects light from the grating to form multi-spectral images on a detector surface.","Further. U.S. Pat. No. 6,100,974 (Aug. 8, 2000) discloses an imaging all-reflective system including fore-optics also in the form of a TMA, and a dispersive Offner spectrometer consisting of three mirrors decentered with respect to one another. All relevant portions of the mentioned >834 and >974 U.S. patents are incorporated by reference.","Further, U.S. Pat. No. 7,944,559 (May 17, 2011) discloses airborne all-reflective hyperspectral imaging system with a fore-optics and Offner type spectrometer having one common axis of symmetry.","There are drawbacks of known hyperspectral imaging systems deployed in airborne and military applications, however. Existing hyperspectral imaging systems are not compact and cannot be deployed for scanning the target on the existing platforms.","Accordingly, there is a need for a high performance hyperspectral scanning imaging airborne system that is compact and provides good performance across the field and spectrum.","According to the invention, an airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay includes fore-optics deployed in a platform housing, and comprises of a primary fore-optics mirror, a secondary fore-optics mirror and a tertiary fore-optics mirror, wherein each of the mirrors has an associated reflective surface. The fore-optics mirrors, situated in a form of a TMA, are configured so that electromagnetic radiation or light from a distant object is collected on the surface of the primary fore-optics mirror and directed toward the surface of the secondary fore-optics mirror. The secondary fore-optics mirror directs the light toward the surface of the tertiary fore-optics mirror, and the tertiary mirror forms an intermediate image corresponding to the object at an entrance side of reflective telecentric relay. The fore-optics may be decentered with respect to an object in order to avoid vignetting and obscuration of the radiation coming from the target.","The airborne hyperspectral scanning system may also include a reflective telecentric relay mounted on the deployed platform housing and which is comprised of three modules. Two modules have optical powers and represent a collimating module and an objective module. The third module comprises a scanning mirror and is located between the collimating and objective modules. The relay configuration, relay magnification and relay focal length are defined along the central ray of the beam coming from the target. Relay modules fulfill three purposes: reimage intermediate TMA image onto the slit before the spectrometer, conjugate relay aperture stop located at the scanning mirror with TMA aperture stop and spectrometer aperture stop and provide telecentric pattern of radiation at both the scanning mirror and spectrometer slit planes.","Collimating power module comprises a relay primary mirror, a relay secondary mirror, a relay tertiary mirror, and a relay fourth mirror. The relay primary mirror is disposed in operative relation to an exit side of the TMA and converges beam from the TMA intermediate image, directing it onto the relay secondary mirror. The relay secondary mirror further converges the beam and directs it onto the relay tertiary mirror. Relay tertiary mirror diverges the beam and directs it to the relay fourth mirror. After the relay fourth mirror, radiation, collimated along the central ray of the beam, is directed onto the scanning mirror. The relay aperture stop is located at the scanning mirror and the collimator module conjugates the TMA aperture stop with a scanning mirror and objective module conjugates the scanning mirror with a spectrometer hard aperture stop. The combination of the relay primary and relay secondary mirrors represents a telephoto configuration and combination of the relay tertiary and relay fourth mirrors represents a reverse telephoto configuration for aberrational correction and compactness.","A scanning mirror module is placed in the telecentric pattern of radiation between the collimator module and the objective module and performs the cross field scan. Location of the mirror allows reducing size of the reflective optics along with compactness while obtaining the necessary field of view.","An objective module comprises a primary objective mirror, a second objective mirror and a third objective mirror. The objective module mirrors are formed as a triplet with a negative optical power mirror inside and positive optical power mirrors outside. The primary objective mirror is disposed in operative relation to an exit side of the scanning mirror and directs converged radiation onto the relay seventh mirror. The second objective mirror diverges the radiation and directs it onto the third objective mirror. The third objective mirror forms an intermediate telecentric image at an entrance side of a spectrometer slit. Primary, secondary, and third objective mirrors may also be referred to as relay sixth, seventh, and eighth mirrors respectively.","The Petzval field curvature of the relay is corrected to obtain a flat field along the central ray of the incoming beam of radiation. The relay mirrors' radii, air spacings between the mirrors and the mirrors' decentrations and tilts provide the solution for the compactness of the reflective telecentric relay and corrections of the field aberrations with respect to the central ray of the beam. The scanning mirror is located in the telecentric pattern of radiation and relay output is at the spectrometer slit plane is telecentric as well.","The imaging system may also include an imaging hyperspectral spectrometer, mounted in the deployed platform housing and which is comprised of a primary spectrometer mirror, a secondary spectrometer mirror and a tertiary spectrometer mirror, each of which has an associated reflective surface. The primary spectrometer mirror is disposed in operative relation to an exit side of the spectrometer slit, and the secondary spectrometer mirror has an associated diffraction grating. The spectrometer mirrors are configured so that light from the exit side of the spectrometer slit is incident on the surface of the primary mirror and directed toward the diffraction grating of the secondary mirror, diffracted light from the grating is incident on the surface of the tertiary mirror, and the tertiary mirror forms a final spatial and spectral image of the object on a focal plane array mounted in the housing.","Each reflective surface of the fore-optics mirrors, reflective telecentric relay mirrors and the spectrometer mirrors may be a segment of a defined solid surface which has a known axis of a rotational symmetry. The fore-optics, the reflective telecentric relay and the spectrometer mirrors segments may be mounted and aligned inside the system housing so that the optical axes all mirrors segments are defined along the chief ray of the incoming beam.","For a better understanding of the invention, reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing and the appended claims.","Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.","Turning to , the preferred embodiment of an airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay according to the invention, system , is generally comprises of fore-optics , a reflective telecentric relay  and Offner imaging spectrometer . The spectrometer assembly may include focal plane array. All of them are assembled, aligned and contained within the existing deployed in a field housing (not shown in ). Preferably, fore-optics  represents three-mirror anastigmat (TMA). Reflective telecentric relay assembly  output is telecentric at the slit before the spectrometer. Offner imaging spectrometer  is doubly telecentric so that the final image size will not change with an axial position of either the slit or the focal plane array. This enables constant spectral sampling regardless of the slit and focal position. A constant and known spectral sampling is necessary to identify an object via its spectral components. In addition, telecentricity at the image plane allows for an extremely uniform image plane illumination, which maximizes the utility of the focal plane array in system .","Now turning also to , the preferred embodiment of an airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay where the ray trace, corresponding only to the axial field point and small number of rays, is depicted for clarity. Size of the mirrors is delimited by the clear apertures. Fore-optics  is configured as a three-mirror anastigmat and has primary fore-optics mirror  as a first optical component. Light rays from, e.g., an external scanning mirror are directed toward a reflective surface of primary mirror , and the reflective surface directs the light toward a reflective surface of secondary fore-optics mirror  which acts as a second optical component of fore-optics . Secondary fore-optics mirror  is conjugated with TMA aperture stop . Secondary fore-optics mirror  directs light toward a reflective surface of tertiary fore-optics mirror  through fold mirror . Tertiary fore-optics mirror  acts as a third optical component of fore-optics , and light rays from tertiary fore-optics mirror  through fold mirrors  and  forming intermediate image  at the entrance of reflective telecentric relay . This intermediate image is conjugated with spectrometer slit  located at the entrance of Offner imaging spectrometer . The TMA conic constants are used as the parameters to eliminate three third order aberrations: spherical, coma and astigmatism. The optical powers and air gaps between the mirrors are arranged to eliminate the field curvature when maintaining the focal length. All TMA mirrors and TMA aperture stop may have a common geometrical axis of symmetry to make assembly, alignment and test less laborious and less consuming time procedures. Additionally, TMA mirrors may not have a common geometrical axis of symmetry. The preferred embodiment utilizes a three mirror set up, but the use of additional intermediate mirrors is also anticipated.","Intermediate image  may be optically corrected to be substantially free of field curvature and distortion. If the distortions are too large, then adjacent spectral\/spatial channels will overlap thus reducing the spectral sensitivity of the imaging system. Typical airborne hyperspectral imagers require both spectral and spatial distortions to be less than 0.2 pixels. Low distortion also aids the image scanning process.","The TMA, which may be used in multi-channel sensor's configuration, usually has to have a diffraction limited performance. The TMA performance depends on a TMA envelope; the larger the distance between the primary and secondary fore-optic mirrors, the easier it is to correct the field aberrations. In this case mirrors optical powers may be reduced, which may lead to the reduction of the angles of incidence of the chief and marginal rays at the mirrors.","The Petzval field curvature induced by the primary and tertiary mirrors is compensated by the secondary mirror optical power. A positive coma induced by the primary fore-optic mirror is compensated by the negative coma induced by the secondary and tertiary fore-optic mirrors. Making some of the mirrors aspherical allows compensation of a spherical aberration which is quite high in this type of design. The secondary and primary fore-optic mirrors can be made as second order aspheres for the large enough envelopes, for the compact design one or both of them preferably are high order aspheres.","Reflective telecentric relay  has multiple purposes:\n\n","Relay mirrors , ,  and  represent a collimating module and objective mirrors ,  and  represent an objective module. Scanning mirror  is disposed between the collimating and objective modules of the relay.","Light incoming from TMA is directed by fold mirror  toward a surface of relay first mirror . Relay first mirror  converges light and directs it onto a surface of relay second mirror . Relay second mirror  diverges the light and directs it toward relay third mirror . Relay third mirror  further diverges light and directs it toward relay fourth mirror . Then light is collimated by relay fourth mirror  and is directed onto scanning mirror . In the aforementioned embodiment, four relay mirrors are used, but the use of additional intermediate relay mirrors is anticipated. In order to accommodate a large field of view with relatively small optics, scanning mirror  may be positioned inside between the collimating module and objective module of relay in a telecentric pattern of light. Scanning mirror  allows continuous scanning across the field of view. In order to avoid vignetting and to maintain the uniform aperture and F-number (F#) across the field, the relay aperture stop may be located at the scanning mirror. Telecentric pattern of chief rays may be maintained at the scanning mirror in order to provide telecentric scanning with a scanning beam always perpendicular to the spectrometer slit and to not introduce the spatial (smile) and spectral (key stone) distortions. Moreover, telecentricity at the scanning mirror allows for lesser sensitivity to the scanning mirror positioning.","Scanning mirror  is conjugated with the TMA aperture stop by means of relay collimating module which consists of relay mirrors , ,  and . Scanning mirror projects slit before spectrometer through the collimating module and fore-optics into the target space. Collimated light reflected from scanning mirror  is directed toward the relay objective module which consists of objective mirrors ,  and . Primary objective mirror  converges light and directs it toward secondary objective mirror . Secondary objective mirror  diverges the light and directs it onto tertiary objective mirror . Tertiary objective mirror  collimates the light and directs it by fold mirror  through window  into spectrometer slit . Relay conjugates spectrometer slit  with intermediate image . Telecentric pattern of light at scanning mirror  and spectrometer slit  is maintained during the scanning process. The aforementioned objective module embodiment utilizes three objective mirrors, but the use of additional intermediate objective mirrors is also anticipated.","Hyperspectral spectrometer  may unfold spectrum into  spectral channels; this allows a precise detection of the spectral signatures of the target being scanned.","The spectrometer premises are as follows:","1. Wide spectral range from visible\/near infrared to short wave infrared: from 0.8 nm to 2.5 nm.","2. High spatial resolution for both VNIR and SWIR bands.","3. Same field of view for all spectral bands +\/\u22120.72\u00b0.","Spectrometer may be implemented in Offner form, and comprise of spectrometer window , spectrometer slit , fold mirror , spectrometer primary mirror , spectrometer secondary mirror , spectrometer tertiary mirror , detector assembly window  and focal plane array . The spectrometer slit has an entrance side and an exit side. Spectrometer slit  may be formed in a known manner, e.g., as a rectangle, and is typically from 40 to 80 microns (\u03bcm) wide. Slit width, a contributing factor to spectral resolution, may be oriented perpendicular to the axis around which scanning is performed. Slit length may be sufficient to accommodate the height of the intermediate image formed by the light rays from tertiary objective mirror  of the relay . Light coming from spectrometer slit  is directed by fold mirror  onto primary spectrometer mirror  and then converged light is directed toward secondary spectrometer mirror . Secondary spectrometer mirror represents diffraction reflective grating and a hard aperture stop may be placed at secondary spectrometer mirror . Secondary spectrometer mirror  disperses the light onto spectral channels with 10 nm spectral width and directs them onto tertiary spectrometer mirror . Tertiary spectrometer mirror  collimates the light and directs it through detector assembly window  onto the focal plane array . In the preferred embodiment spectrometer is made rotationally symmetric so that primary spectrometer mirror and tertiary spectrometer mirror are made as a one solid mirror working with different off axis reflective apertures.","In addition to the fundamental performance, a flat focal plane and telecentricity at the slit may be significant instrument design considerations. Telecentricity may be used in order to make performance less sensitive to the slit defocusing along the chief ray of the beam. Also telecentricity at the slit reduces variation of the spatial (smile) and chromatic (key stone) distortions during scanning.","At the scanning process, the airborne hyperspectral system delivers emitted reflected light which may include spectral information of the target to the focal plane array. The information may be developed and processed by special software. Then based on the output data the decision on target content can be made.","Some or all the reflective surfaces of the mirrors of fore-optics  may be segments of solid surfaces that are generally aspherical, i.e., surfaces that do not form part of a sphere such as, for example, surfaces that are ellipsoidal, hyperboloidal or paraboloidal in shape. Alternatively, some or all of the reflective surfaces may be conics, or spherical. In preferred embodiment these surfaces are rotationally symmetric and have a common geometrical axis, but it is not necessary. Preferably, for TMA the surfaces are segments of the following solid surfaces:\n\n","Fore-optics  operates with off-axis apertures. In order to not obscure the radiation which comes from the target the TMA aperture stop decenter with respect to TMA common axis, field of view and TAM focal length along the chief ray shall have relations as follows:\n\n","Further, the relationships between constructive parameters of fore-optics  are preferably as follows:\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=(\u22120.24) to (\u22120.44)\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=0.50 to 0.70\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=0.25-0.44\n\n=0.55-0.85\n\n\/EFL=0.15-0.30\n","Wherein, \u03a6, \u03a6and \u03a6are optical powers along the chief ray of the primary, the secondary, and the tertiary fore-optics mirrors , , , respectively. \u03a6is the optical power along the chief ray of the whole TMA. Dand Dare the distances along the chief ray between the primary and secondary TMA mirrors, EFLis the focal length along the chief ray of the TMA.","It has been demonstrated that the foregoing relationships among the optical powers of fore-optics  allow for correction of cross field coma, astigmatism and field curvature at intermediate image . Also foregoing relationships allow correction of the pupil spherical aberration and coma.","For clarity, optical diagram of a reflective telecentric relay for the full field, showing only working off axis segments of the relay mirrors, is presented in . Light enters relay through TMA aperture stop  and the TMA intermediate image is formed at plane . Relay may include collimating and objective modules and scanning mirror assembly.","According to an embodiment, the collimator module may comprise of collimator module first mirror , collimator module second mirror , collimator module third mirror  and fourth mirror . Collimator module fifth mirror  may be a scanning mirror and is disposed in the light collimated around the chief ray and rotates around the axis perpendicular to the plane of drawing and along the slit length. The combination of the collimator module first mirror  and collimator module second  may represent a telephoto configuration and combination of the collimator module third mirror  and collimator module fourth mirror  may represent a reverse telephoto configuration necessary for aberrational correction and compactness.","A scanning mirror module may be placed in the telecentric pattern of radiation between the collimation and objective modules and performs the cross field scan. A scanning mirror module may comprise of a scanning mirror. Location of the mirror allows reducing size of the reflective optics along with compactness while obtaining the necessary field of view.","Scanning mirror may be conjugated with TMA aperture stop and spectrometer aperture stop. An objective module may comprise of objective primary mirror , objective second mirror  and objective third mirror . Spectrometer entrance slit  is centered with respect to the chief ray of the beam. Telecentric pattern of rays is maintained at the slit. The objective module mirrors are formed as a triplet with objective secondary mirror , having negative optical power, inside and objective primary mirror  and third mirror , having positive optical power, outside.","Each reflective telecentric relay mirror may be decentered with respect to the TMA intermediate image and with respect to each other. The geometrical axis of each of relay mirror may not coincide with the chief ray of the beam. This configuration allows compactness and adds degrees of freedom for achieving a necessary performance at the slit plane.","Turning now also to , an embodiment may be an unfolded configuration of the reflective telecentric relay.  shows full surface profiles of the relay mirrors and optical path. Light after the TMA goes through TMA aperture stop . The TMA forms an image at intermediate image plane . Then intermediate image plane  is conjugated with slit . A relay collimator module first mirror () may have a positive optical power. Its surface profile may represent a high order aspherical elliptical surface. A relay collimator module second mirror () may have a negative optical power and its profile may represent a high order aspherical hyperbolical surface. A relay collimator module third mirror () may have a negative optical power profile representing a high order aspherical oblique elliptical surface. A relay collimator module fourth mirror profile () represents a high order aspherical hyperbolical surface. Scanning mirror  may be flat, and centered at the chief ray of the light beam and rotates around the axis parallel to the slit long side, imaging slit onto the object space through the collimation module of the relay and TMA. A relay objective first mirror () may represent a high order aspherical elliptical surface. A relay objective second mirror () may represent a high order aspherical hyperbolical surface. A relay objective third mirror () may represent a high order aspherical elliptical surface. One can see that all relay mirrors work with off axis segments and beam is reflected in a very narrow compact tunnel as it goes from the intermediate image to the slit. Relay may maintain telecentric pattern of light at the slit; this feature allows slit insensitivity to the defocusing while providing a necessary correction of the spectral and spatial distortions. Mutual combination of the relay mirror profiles, mirrors tilts and decentrations with respect to mirrors geometrical axes leads to along chief ray aberrational correction and low F#3.2 along the chief ray.","In order to provide all foregoing features the relations between constructive parameters of the telecentric reflective relay presented in  and  are preferably as follows:\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=(\u22125.50)-(\u22126.50)\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=2.50-3.60\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=(\u22120.25)-(\u22120.50)\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6(\u22124.10)-(\u22124.85)\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=(\u22120.10)-(\u22120.35)\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=(0.60)-(\u22120.80)\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=(\u22120.35)-(\u22120.50)\n\nEFL\/OP=0.08-0.20\n\nEFL\/EFL=2.50-3.50\n\nEFL\/EFL=0.075-0.095\n","Wherein, \u03a6; \u03a6, \u03a6, \u03a6are optical powers along the chief ray of the relay collimator module first, second, third and fourth mirrors; \u03a6, \u03a6, \u03a6are optical powers along the chief ray of relay objective module sixth, seventh and eighth mirrors; \u03a6, \u03a6and \u03a6are optical powers along the chief ray of the relay and collimating and objective modules correspondingly; EFLis effective focal length along the chief ray of the relay; OPis optical path along the chief ray between the relay first and last mirrors; EFLis paraxial effective focal length of the relay; and EFLis the TMA effective focal length along the chief ray.","Foregoing relations allow for the relay to provide a good performance at the slit: all energy is concentrated in a blur spot less than 0.0018 inches\u2014see .","Imaging spectrometer in the preferred embodiment represents a tree-mirror Offner type configuration with a common geometrical axis for all three mirrors. According to  imaging spectrometer  in system  of  has primary spectrometer mirror  with a reflective surface that is positioned to receive light exiting from the spectrometer slit , and to direct the light toward secondary spectrometer mirror . Secondary spectrometer mirror  acts as an aperture stop and incorporates diffractive element on its surface. Diffracted light having spectral components, with wavelengths between 2500 nm and 800 nm, is reflected by secondary spectrometer mirror  toward a reflective surface of tertiary spectrometer mirror . Tertiary spectrometer mirror  then forms an image of the diffracted light on an active surface of focal plane array . The image should be substantially free from spatial and spectral distortions. According to and embodiment of the invention, each of the reflective surfaces of the mirrors ,  and  of Offner imaging spectrometer  may be a segment of a solid surface which has a known geometrical axis of symmetry, that is, each reflective surface may be rotationally symmetric about the axis of symmetry of the solid surface of which it is a segment. In the preferred embodiment spectrometer primary mirror  and spectrometer tertiary mirror  may represent off axis segments of one reflective surface and the center of primary mirror 's clear aperture may be positioned at the point of intersection of the chief ray coming from spectrometer slit  with a primary mirror  surface. According to the preferred embodiment all spectrometer mirrors may be spherical, but they also may be performed as aspherical surfaces. In order to correct aberrations with respect to the chief ray spectrometer mirrors may be decentered with respect to each other.","Moreover, relationships between constructive parameters of the imaging spectrometer are preferably as follows:\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=0.40-0.60\n\n\u03a6\/\u03a6=0.85-1.15\n\n\u0394\/EFL=0.35-0.45\n\nEFL\/EFL=0.70-0.80\n","Wherein, \u03a6, \u03a6and \u03a6are optical powers along the chief ray of the primary, the secondary and the tertiary imaging spectrometer mirrors respectively; \u0394is the decentration of the slit in direction perpendicular to the slit long side with respect to the geometrical axis of the spectrometer primary mirror; EFLis the effective focal length along the chief ray of the spectrometer primary mirror; EFLis the effective focal length along the chief ray of the relay.","Referring to  it has been demonstrated that the foregoing relationships among the optical powers of fore-optics , reflective telecentric relay  and Offner imaging spectrometer  allow for correction of coma, astigmatism and field curvature at both spectrometer slit  and focal plane array . Spectral and spatial distortion magnitudes do not exceed 1\/10th of a pixel for a 25 micron pixel size. Other desirable results are that reflective telecentric relay  and imaging spectrometer  both are doubly telecentric, the field of view is large, FNO is low and spectral sampling is high.","The systems  of  can meet the following specification, when constructed as described above.  shows a Modulation Transfer Function (MTF) calculated for the airborne hyperspectral system with reflective telecentric relay.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0076"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"FOV","+\/\u22120.72\u00b0 linear, scan"]},{"entry":[{},"WL","2500 nm-800 nm"]},{"entry":[{},"EFY, EFX along the chief ray","25\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"Anamorphic distortion","<5%"]},{"entry":[{},"FNO along the chief ray","\u20033.3"]},{"entry":[{},"Detector","640 pixels, 25 \u03bcm each;"]},{"entry":[{},{},"+\/\u22120.315\u2033 field linear"]},{"entry":[{},"Spectral resolution","10 nm"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of spectral channels","170"]},{"entry":[{},"Spectral spread","0.167\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"100% radial energy at the slit","0.0018\u2033"]},{"entry":[{},"MTF as built","0.35 20 lp\/mm"]},{"entry":[{},"Smile, key stone","<0.1 pixels"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"A preferred embodiment of the airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay described herein is compact and can be mounted onto existing housing of airborne sensors platforms. Hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay according to the invention allows scanning the target during the flight for recognition of the target content based on the spectral sampling. System provides an aberrational correction of the imaging slit with a spatial and spectral distortions correction. The fore-optics accepts electromagnetic radiation or light from distant objects, and forms an intermediate image before the reflective telecentric relay. A reflective relay, consisting of collimator, scanning mirror and objective modules, accepts electromagnetic radiation for the intermediate image and forms a well corrected telecentric image at an entrance of the spectrometer slit. A scanning mirror inside the relay may be located at the collimated light pattern for the chief ray distortion correction during scanning. Light exiting the slit is directed by a primary mirror of the imaging spectrometer to a diffraction grating at a secondary mirror of the spectrometer. Diffracted light from the grating is directed toward a tertiary spectrometer mirror which forms an image pattern on a focal plane array. The image pattern represents multiple spectral components of the intermediate image at the slit. Defined relationships between the optical powers of the fore-optics and the imaging spectrometer components enable correction of spatial and spectral distortion as well as near diffraction-limited image quality.","The inventive system preferred embodiment according to - has a low F-number of 3.3 along the chief ray and a wide field of scanning view. The spectral wavelength range is 800 nm to 2500 nm and the field is 0.630 inches spatial by 0.167 inches spectral. Compared to existing systems, this system is very compact and may be fit to the existing airborne sensors.","Sequence 1 is an optical prescription of an airborne hyperspectral scanning system with reflective telecentric relay according to the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0080"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Sequence 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["RDY","THI","RMD","GLA","CCY","THC","GLC"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["OBJ:","INFINITY","INFINITY",{},{},"100","100"]},{"entry":["1:","INFINITY","20.000000",{},"100","100"]},{"entry":["2:","INFINITY","0.000000","REFL",{},"100","100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: \u22127.450000 DAR"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: \u221244.152500","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["3:","INFINITY","\u221214.570000",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cHEAD MIRROR\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: \u221290.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["4:","INFINITY","\u221212.000000",{},"100","100",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 6.200000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 DAR"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0:000000","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["5:","27.80027","11.500000","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cTMA PRIMARY\u201d"},{"entry":"CON:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"K: \u22120.918065","KC: 100",{}]},{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["6:","9.58572","\u22123.500000","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cTMA SECONDARY\u201d"},{"entry":"CON:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"K: \u22126.736621","KC: 100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["7:","INFINITY","13.500000","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cTMA FOLD\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 BEN"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: \u221245.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["8:","\u221216.28677","\u221213.500000","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cTMA TERTIARY\u201d"},{"entry":"CON:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"K: \u22120.286025","KC: 100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["9:","INFINITY","\u22127.000000",{},"100","100",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cTMA STOP\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: \u22121.650000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["10:","INFINITY","2.000000","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cCOMMON FOLD MIRROR\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0:000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 BEN"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: 45.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["11:","INFINITY","\u22122.958000","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cS2\/S5 B\/S\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 BEN"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 45.000000","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["12:","INFINITY","0.043213","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cS5 SELECT MIRROR\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 BEN"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: 45.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["13:","INFINITY","10.000000",{},"100","100",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cTILT\/DECENTER COLLIMATOR\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: \u22124.949467","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: \u22123.588630","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["14:","\u221214.49479","\u22126.254185","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cCOLLIMATOR PRIMARY\u201d"},{"entry":"ASP:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"K: \u22120.474466","KC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"CUF: 0.000000","CCF: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"A: 0.128434E\u221204","B: \u2212.112903E\u221206","C: 0.613316E\u221209","D: \u2212.103771E\u221211"]},{"entry":[{},"AC: 100","BC: 100","CC: 100","DC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: \u22125.000000","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: \u221216.093140","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["15:","\u221213.63966","6.503065","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cCOLLIMATOR SECONDARY\u201d"},{"entry":"ASP:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"K: \u221212.000000","KC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"CUF: 0.000000","CCF: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"A: 0.100573E\u221203","B: \u2212.129168E\u221205","C: 0.112387E\u221207","D: \u2212.492277E\u221210"]},{"entry":[{},"AC: 100","BC: 100","CC: 100","DC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: \u22120.397958","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 5.193019","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["16:","28.93329","\u22126.430647","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cCOLLIMATOR TERTIARY\u201d"},{"entry":"ASP:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"K: 4.395149","KC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"CUF: 0.000000","CCF: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"A: 0.583838E\u221203","B: \u2212.101196E\u221204","C: 0.352256E\u221207","D: \u2212.100160E\u221208"]},{"entry":[{},"AC: 100","BC: 100","CC: 100","DC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: \u22121.731746","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 6.084009","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[">17:","43.92262","5.360463","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cCOLLIMATOR FOURTH\u201d"},{"entry":"ASP:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"K: \u221210.848628","KC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"CUF: 0.000000","CCF: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"A: 0.196030E\u221205","B: \u2212.406711E\u221205","C: 0.193729E\u221206","D: \u2212.628600E\u221208"]},{"entry":[{},"AC: 100","BC: 100","CC: 100","DC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: \u22120.025136","ZDE: 0.000000 BEN"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: \u221211.968646","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["18:","INFINITY","0.000000",{},"100","100",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 13.798673","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["19:","INFINITY","0.000000","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cS5 SCAN MIRROR\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: \u22120.785633","ZDE: 0.000000 DAR"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 1.310330","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["20:","INFINITY","\u22122.885136",{},"100","100",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 13.798673","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["21:","17.81289","2.540932","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cOBJECTIVE PRIMARY\u201d"},{"entry":"ASP:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"K: \u22120.050394","KC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"CUF: 0.000000","CCF: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"A: 0.479822E\u221204","B: \u2212.157611E\u221206","C: 0.166291E\u221208","D: \u2212.744067E\u221211"]},{"entry":[{},"AC: 100","BC: 100","CC: 100","DC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 5.000000","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: \u221229.098164","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["22:","2.68495","\u22121.278687","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cOBJECTIVE SECONDARY\u201d"},{"entry":"ASP:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"K: \u22123.194411","KC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"CUF: 0.000000","CCF: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"A: \u2212.986653E\u221203","B: 0.127976E\u221204","C: 0.122209E\u221207","D: \u2212.404650E\u221209"]},{"entry":[{},"AC: 100","BC: 100","CC: 100","DC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.530318","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ACE: 7.305534","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["23:","11.27105","13.322351","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cOJECTIVE TERTIARY\u201d"},{"entry":"ASP:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"K: \u22120.338665","KC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"CUF: 0.000000","CCF: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"A: 0.313067E\u221203","B: \u2212.396015E\u221205","C: 0.103862E\u221207","D: 0.345452E\u221211"]},{"entry":[{},"AC: 100","BC: 100","CC: 100","DC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 3.828393","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: \u221219.094475","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["24:","INFINITY","\u22123.500000",{},"100","100",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: \u22120.000632","YDE: \u221210.188014","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 28.910565","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["25:","INFINITY","\u22123.054891","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 BEN"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: \u221245.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["26:","INFINITY","\u22120.079000","SAPHIR_SPECIAL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cwindow\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["27:","INFINITY","\u22120.400000",{},"100","100",{}]},{"entry":["28:","INFINITY","\u22121.750000",{},"100","100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cSlit\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 DAR"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["29:","INFINITY","5.011593","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201coffner fold 1\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 BEN"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: \u221245.000000","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["30:","\u22126.72060","\u22123.286846","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cOFFNER M1\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: \u22121.429346","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"CUM: 0.000000","THM: 0.144000","GLM:"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["STO:","\u22123.39329","3.286846","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SLB: \u201cOFFNER GRATING\u201d"},{"entry":"GRT:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"GRO: 1.000000","GRS: 0.001376",{}]},{"entry":[{},"ROC: 100","RSC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"GRX: 0.000000","GRY: 1.000000","GRZ: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"RXC: 100","RYC: 100","RZC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"BLT: IDEAL"]},{"entry":[{},"CUM: 0.000000","THM: 0.086400","GLM:"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["32:","\u22126.72060","\u22123.286846","REFL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cOFFNER M3\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"CUM: 0.000000","THM: 0.144000","GLM:"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["33:","INFINITY","\u22122.726339",{},"100","100",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cdummy for clearance\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["34:","INFINITY","\u22120.059055","SAPHIR_SPECIAL",{},"100","100"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: \u22121.277930","ZDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: \u22120.818637","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["35:","INFINITY","\u22120.654000",{},"100","100",{}]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"14pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"21pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["36:","INFINITY","\u22120.059055","SAPHIR_SPECIAL",{},"100","100"]},{"entry":["37:","INFINITY","\u22120.020000",{},{},"100","100"]},{"entry":["IMG:","INFINITY","0.000000",{},{},"100","100"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SLB: \u201cImage Plane\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"XDE: 0.000000","YDE: 0.000000","ZDE: 0.000000 DAR"]},{"entry":[{},"XDC: 100","YDC: 100","ZDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},"ADE: 0.000000","BDE: 0.000000","CDE: 0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADC: 100","BDC: 100","CDC: 100"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"SPECIFICATION DATA"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"EPD","7.55000",{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"DIM","IN"]},{"entry":[{},"WL","2500.00","1650.00","800.00"]},{"entry":[{},"REF","1"]},{"entry":[{},"WTW","1","0","0"]},{"entry":[{},"INI","SCR"]},{"entry":[{},"XAN","0.00000","\u22120.35000","0.35000","\u22120.72000","0.72000"]},{"entry":[{},"YAN","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":[{},"WTF","1.00000","1.00000","1.00000","1.00000","1.00000"]},{"entry":[{},"VUX","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":[{},"VLX","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":[{},"VUY","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":[{},"VLY","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":[{},"POL","N"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"APERTURE DATA\/EDGE DEFINITIONS"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"168pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"CA APE",{},{}]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S1",{},"4.754554"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S1",{},"0.043219"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S1",{},"\u22120.033584"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S2",{},"6.149233"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S2",{},"4.144420"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S2",{},"0.135261"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S2",{},"\u22120.032385"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S3",{},"4.541710"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S3",{},"7.491597"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S3",{},"\u22120.033599"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S4",{},"4.386073"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S4",{},"\u22120.156600"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S4",{},"\u22120.033581"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S5",{},"4.373454"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S5",{},"8.248033"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S5",{},"\u22120.033770"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S6",{},"0.943076"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S6",{},"0.842771"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S6",{},"1.907594"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S6",{},"\u22120.002493"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S7",{},"0.490452"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S7",{},"0.421391"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S7",{},"1.268117"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S7",{},"\u22120.000401"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S8",{},"2.946908"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S8",{},"\u22121.610350"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S8",{},"0.015590"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S9",{},"0.814186"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S9",{},"\u22120.000032"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S9",{},"0.006453"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S10",{},"1.032643"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S10",{},"0.720453"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S10",{},"0.009769"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S10",{},"0.001212"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S11",{},"0.714459"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S11",{},"1.004487"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S11",{},"0.001238"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S11",{},"0.005079"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S12",{},"1.192617"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S12",{},"0.935466"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S12",{},"\u22120.160030"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S12",{},"\u22120.001249"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S13",{},"1.202290"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S13",{},"0.002091"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S13",{},"4.965633"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S14",{},"2.600000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S14",{},"9.800000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S15",{},"2.500000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S15",{},"5.150000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S16",{},"1.500000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S16",{},"3.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S17",{},"2.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S17",{},"1.175000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S18",{},"1.753740"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S18",{},"2.021386"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S18",{},"\u22120.000277"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S18",{},"\u22120.849942"]},{"entry":[{},"ELX S19",{},"1.850000"]},{"entry":[{},"ELY S19",{},"2.300000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S20",{},"2.031624"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S20",{},"\u22120.000034"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S20",{},"\u22120.725400"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S21",{},"2.250000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S21",{},"\u22127.600000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S22",{},"1.450000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S22",{},"\u22128.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S23",{},"1.100000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S23",{},"\u221212.500000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S24",{},"0.315931"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S24",{},"0.001014"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S24",{},"\u22120.000041"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S24",{},"\u22120.000048"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S25",{},"1.300000"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S25",{},"0.650000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S25",{},"0.200000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S26",{},"0.400000"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S26",{},"0.100000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S27",{},"0.400000"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S27",{},"0.100000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S28",{},"0.315994"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S28",{},"0.001045"]},{"entry":[{},"ADX S28",{},"0.000000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S28",{},"\u22120.000038"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S29",{},"0.650000"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S29",{},"0.450000"]},{"entry":[{},"ADY S29",{},"\u22120.060000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S30",{},"2.600000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S30","L\u2018a1\u2019","1.500000"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S30","L\u2018a1\u2019","2.600000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S31",{},"0.545000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S32",{},"2.600000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S32","L\u2018a2\u2019","1.500000"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S32","L\u2018a2\u2019","2.600000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S34",{},"0.500000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S35",{},"0.500000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S36",{},"0.350000"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S36",{},"0.100000"]},{"entry":[{},"REX S37",{},"0.350000"]},{"entry":[{},"REY S37",{},"0.100000"]},{"entry":[{},"CIR S38",{},"0.350000"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"REFRACTIVE INDICE"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"112pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"98pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"GLASS CODE","2500.00","1650.00","800.00"]},{"entry":[{},"SAPHIR_SPECIAL","1.726257","1.744460","1.760196"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"No solves defined in system"},{"entry":"No pickups defined in system"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"ZOOM DATA"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"POS 1","POS 2","POS 3","POS 4","POS 5","POS 6","POS 7","POS 8","POS 9"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["WTW W1","1","1","1","0","0","0","0","0","0"]},{"entry":["WTW W2","0","0","0","1","1","1","0","0","0"]},{"entry":["WTW W3","0","0","0","0","0","0","1","1","1"]},{"entry":["REF","1","1","1","2","2","2","3","3","3"]},{"entry":["YAN F1","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000"]},{"entry":["YAN F2","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000"]},{"entry":["YAN F3","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000"]},{"entry":["YAN F4","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000"]},{"entry":["YAN F5","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000","0.00000","\u22120.72000","0.72000"]},{"entry":["VUY F1","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLY F1","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUY F2","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLY F2","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUY F3","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLY F3","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUY F4","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLY F4","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUY F5","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLY F5","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUX F1","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLX F1","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUX F2","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLX F2","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUX F3","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLX F3","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUX F4","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLX F4","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VUX F5","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["VLX F5","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000","0.00000"]},{"entry":["ADE S19","1.31033","0.49587","2.11464","1.31033","0.49587","2.11464","1.31033","0.49587","2.11464"]},{"entry":["ADC S19","100","100","100","100","100","100","100","100","100"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"This is a non-symmetric system. If elements with power are"},{"entry":"decentered or tilted, the first order properties are probably"},{"entry":"inadequate in describing the system characteristics."}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"POS 1","POS 2","POS 3","POS 4","POS 5","POS 6","POS 7","POS 8","POS 9"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"INFINITE CONJUGATES"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["EFL","\u22127.7434","\u22127.7434","\u22127.7434","\u22127.7435","\u22127.7435","\u22127.7435","\u22127.7435","\u22127.7435","\u22127.7435"]},{"entry":["BFL","15.4225","15.4225","15.4225","15.4214","15.4214","15.4214","15.4206","15.4206","15.4206"]},{"entry":["FFL","80.4648","80.4648","80.4648","80.4648","80.4648","80.4648","80.4648","80.4648","80.4648"]},{"entry":["FNO","1.0256","1.0256","1.0256","1.0256","1.0256","1.0256","1.0256","1.0256","1.0256"]},{"entry":["IMG DIS","\u22120.0200","\u22120.0200","\u22120.0200","\u22120.0200","\u22120.0200","\u22120.0200","\u22120.0200","\u22120.0200","\u22120.0200"]},{"entry":["OAL","3.8358","3.8358","3.8358","3.8358","3.8358","3.8358","3.8358","3.8358","3.8358"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"PARAXIAL IMAGE"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["HT","0.0000","0.0973","0.0973","0.0000","0.0973","0.0973","0.0000","0.0973","0.0973"]},{"entry":["ANG","0.0000","0.7200","0.7200","0.0000","0.7200","0.7200","0.0000","0.7200","0.7200"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"ENTRANCE PUPIL"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["DIA","7.5500","7.5500","7.5500","7.5500","7.5500","7.5500","7.5500","7.5500","7.5500"]},{"entry":["THI","80.8880","80.8880","80.8880","80.8880","80.8880","80.8880","80.8880","80.8880","80.8880"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"350pt","align":"center"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"EXIT PUPIL"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"10"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"8","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"9","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"10","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["DIA","138.1385","138.1385","138.1385","138.1382","138.1382","138.1382","138.1378","138.1376","138.1378"]},{"entry":["THI","157.1004","157.1004","157.1004","157.0997","157.0997","157.0997","157.0991","157.0991","157.0991"]},{"entry":["STO DIA","1.0665","1.0596","1.0886","1.0665","1.0596","1.0888","1.0665","1.0596","1.0888"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"10","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"While the foregoing represents preferred embodiment of the invention, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, and that the invention includes all such modifications and changes as are within the bounds of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The apparatus and possible embodiments will be illustrated, without being limited in any way by the following description and possible embodiments in conjunction with the accompanying figures which show:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
