---
title: Trigger guard roll pin tool
abstract: This trigger guard roll pin tool makes it possible to safely and quickly install or remove the trigger guard roll pin on a conventional M16/M4 family weapon. In the disassembly or reassembly of the trigger guard on such weapons the handling of the trigger guard roll pin element is often a manually challenging and painstaking activity that can result in damage to the weapon if done incorrectly. This disclosed tool handily is an assist in such activities. The trigger guard roll pin tool makes it possible to remove and install the trigger guard roll pin without risking breakage of the roll pin flanges on the lower receiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984794&OS=08984794&RS=08984794
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08984794
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140325
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF INVENTION","BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The inventions described herein may be made, used, or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.","This tool generally makes possible more convenient handling of the removal and installation of a roll pin that retains a trigger guard in a lower receiver on a conventional M16\/M4 family weapon when the installation or removal of the trigger guard, hence the installation or removal of the retaining roll pin, is desired. As will be appreciated by those in the gun repair trade, the disassembly or reassembly of the trigger guard and allied elements (e.g., the roll pin) of such weapons is a challenging, tricky and painstaking activity sometimes resulting in damage to the lower receiver, thus greatly needing improved assist. The disclosed tool handily is a great addition and assists in such activities.","The description as follows includes directional designations such as up, down, left, right, lateral, transverse, longitudinal, top, bottom, vertical, and the like, that are taken from the perspective of a firearm (e.g., a conventional AR-10\/AR-15\/M16 family, style, platform, or pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine, and variants thereof) as typically held and operated by a user.","The description assumes the level of knowledge held by an ordinary armorer, gunsmith, repair or assembly technician, user, operator, maintenance personnel, and the like for a conventional AR-15\/M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine, and variants thereof, and the respective components and operation thereof. The environment forms no part of the invention. Likewise, designations such as \u201ca\u201d, \u201can\u201d, and \u201cthe\u201d are not to be construed to be limited to a singular item or action unless apparent from the context or definitely described as such.","As used herein, elements having numbers more than  and less than  generally refer to conventional elements known in the art by one having ordinary skill with respect to a rifle, firearm, weapon, carbine, and the like; generally AR-10, AR-15\/M16 rifle, M4 carbine families; while elements number  and above refer to the present invention, or elements, components, and the like thereof. Like numbered elements generally refer to the same element; however, the like numbered elements may include a suffix \u201cL\u201d to designate the left side element and a suffix \u201cR\u201d to designate the right side element when left and right elements are mirrors of each other.","Conventional elements include:\n\n","As further understood by those having ordinary skill in the art, the conventional M16\/M4\/AR-15 family weapons are made to an exacting technical data description that is agreed upon by manufacturers of not only the firearms but the numerous aftermarket accessories as well; and, as such, provides interchangeability and modularity within and between manufacturers using such designation. As such, designation of the subject firearms as being within M16\/M4\/AR-15 family weapons provides the indication (designation) of de facto standardization of the components so designated. Thus, such designation is distinct and particular as used in connection with claims directed thereto.","During assembly and repair operations of AR-15\/M16 pattern (style or family) rifles and M4 pattern (style or family) carbines (i.e., weapons), and variants thereof (referred to as guns, weapons, or firearms hereafter), the trigger guards (i.e., mechanism, assembly, devices, etc.) of such weapons, as is well known to those skilled in the art of the assembly, maintenance, and repair of the weapons, are often removed and installed (or reinstalled). Such operations may include tasks such as but not limited to initial firearm assembly, installation of new trigger guards to replace damaged trigger guards, upgrading of trigger guards, etc.","Referring to ,  illustrate conventional, prior art AR-15\/M16 rifle and M4 carbine pattern lower receivers .  is a left side elevation of a bare (stripped) lower receiver . The lower receiver  shown on  is intact.  is an isometric view from the upper, right, front with inset A which is an isometric view from the upper, right, rear that illustrates the user, U, using the conventional tools (i.e., the punch , the hammer , and the pad ) during the process of trigger guard retention roll pin  installation or removal.  is an isometric view of the receiver  from the lower, left, rear that illustrates an example of a flange L that was broken during an unfortunate but all too common failed attempt to install the trigger guard retention roll pin .","During assembly, repair, and replacement operations of the AR-15\/M16 pattern rifles and M4 pattern carbines (i.e., firearms, weapons, etc.) , and variants thereof, a trigger guard element  of the lower receiver  may be installed or removed. As understood by one of skill in the art, e.g., an armorer, gunsmith, user, operator, repair or assembly technician, maintenance personnel, and the like, U, the rear portion of the trigger guard  is held (retained) in the lower receiver  by a tension pin (e.g., roll pin, split pin, C pin, spiral pin, coil pin, etc.)  that is inserted between (driven into) lateral holes  (e.g., holes L and R) within laterally opposing first and second flanges (tangs, tabs, ears, etc.)  (e.g., ears L and R) on the lower receiver subassembly  of the firearm forward of the hand grip mounting region (e.g., a hand grip flange ) and through an intervening lateral hole (channel, passage, etc.) in the rear of trigger guard . The most commonly used tension pin is a roll pin (split pin). As such, hereinafter, the tension pin  is non-exclusively referred to as a roll pin. The hand grip flange  includes a threaded hole , which matingly receives a threaded screw or bolt  (see, for example, ) to retain a hand (pistol) grip (not shown) as part of the assembly process, as understood by one skilled in the art.","As illustrated on  including inset A, conventional tools and a conventional process that have been used for AR-15\/M16 rifle and M4 carbine  trigger guard roll pin  installation and removal include a pin punch (i.e., punch with a flat tip) , a hammer , and an impact resistant pad or block  that is placed behind the lower receiver  at the roll pin flange  that is opposite the side from which the roll pin  is inserted. The pad  is typically placed on a work bench or table (not shown). The user, U, manually positions the trigger guard , laterally aligns the roll pin , and drives the roll pin  into position through the holes  via taps, hits, blows, and the like to the punch  with the hammer . Alternatively (not illustrated), the roll pin  may also be pressed (squeezed) into position through the holes  (e.g., pressed using a C-clamp, pliers, or the like) laterally positioned across the roll pin tangs ; however, the pressing of the roll pin  approach also has the same occasional, undesirable consequences (i.e., breakage of a roll pin flange , described below in connection with ) as drying the pin .","Unfortunately, as illustrated on , even when care is taken by attempting to remove burrs, lubricate, and correctly align the roll pin  with both of the lower receiver flange holes L and R (and the intervening hole through the rear of the trigger guard ) and the impact pad  is carefully positioned, occasionally the roll pin  insertion or removal process will go awry and one of the roll pin flanges  is broken off the lower receiver . As the lower receiver  is a costly and federally regulated (i.e., registered as a firearm) part, breaking the lower receiver  is a potentially costly burdensome occurrence. On , the distance, TO, illustrates a tang offset by which the trigger guards  are offset inward from the outer lateral surfaces of the receiver .","The broken receiver  may be rendered inoperable by the user and discarded. Alternatively, users who break one or both roll pin flanges  may: (i) repair the broken flange  with expensive welding, grinding, and refinish processes; (ii) repair the broken flange  with a relatively weak epoxy joint and hope that the broken flange  does not encounter any mechanical stress; or (iii) hide the broken flange  with a commercially available pistol grip that incorporates a trigger guard (e.g., STARK SE-1 grip, MAGFUL MIAD (registered trademark) grip) which may be costly and uncomfortable to the user. So common is the breakage of the flange , that the replacement grips that hide the broken roll pin flange  are often referred to, sometimes with Schadenfreude, as \u201cthe grip of shame\u201d. Clearly, a better approach is to not break the roll pin flange .","A conventional approach to avoid breaking the roll pin flange  is to not use a roll pin , instead to: tap threads or install thread adapter inserts into the holes , and install low profile head screws to retain the trigger guard . However, such an approach has the deficiencies of being expensive, requires special tools and skills to perform, may defeat the swing down (\u201cwinter\u201d, i.e., thick glove use) feature of the trigger guard , the trigger guard  may be loose (flop, wiggle), and the screws may back out unless additional steps such as adding retention compound are taken which may make removal of the screws difficult.","Thus, there is a need and a desire for a system and a process that overcomes one or more of the deficiencies of conventional devices and processes.","The description herein assumes the level of knowledge held by an ordinary armorer, gunsmith, repair or assembly technician, user, operator, maintenance personnel, end the like for a conventional AR-15\/M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine, and variants thereof, and the respective components and operation thereof. The description may include directional designations such as up, down, left, right, lateral, transverse, longitudinal, top, bottom, vertical, and the like, that are taken from the perspective of a firearm (e.g., a conventional AR-10\/AR-15\/M16 family, style, platform, or pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine, and variants thereof) as typically held and operated by a user.","The present invention is directed to an armorer or gunsmith tool. In particular, the invention is a tool used as a trigger guard roll pin installation and removal process aid for AR-15\/M16 rifles and M4 carbines. AR-15\/M16 pattern rifles and M4 pattern carbines, and variants thereof, are very prolific having been produced more or less continuously since first introduced circa 1961. Such firearms are found throughout the world with millions of copies of each produced, and in use by numerous civilian personnel, and law enforcement and military agencies including use as the standard infantry firearm in much of the U.S. military. The invention is a tool that may be implemented in connection with an AR-15\/M16 rifle and M4 carbine lower receiver to quickly and easily provide trigger guard retention roll pin installation and removal and prevent damage to the firearm, specifically breakage of the trigger guard retention flanges, at a relatively low cost. The invention will generally help reduce or prevent damage to components of the firearm during assembly, repair, and replacement operations.","The invention provides a secure, robust, relatively low cost trigger guard roll pin installation and removal tool for easy and convenient use in connection with a conventional AR-15\/M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine firearms, and variants thereof. The invention securely mounts on a conventional lower receiver at the pistol grip mounting location (i.e., the pistol grip flange ); and provides positive, stable support of the lower receiver flange  to reduce or prevent likelihood of breakage of the trigger guard pin flanges  during trigger guard retention pin  installation and removal processes. The trigger guard roll pin tool is quickly and easily removed when the desired tasks are completed. Mounting is achieved by mounting the trigger guard roll pin tool on the pistol flange  and securing the tool via the standard pistol grip (hand grip) screw  or similarly sized and threaded bolt, screw, wing bolt, or the like installed into the hand grip screw hole . Furthermore, the trigger guard roll pin tool may be used when the fire control selector  remains installed in the lower receiver . Thus avoiding the lost time involved with removal and re-installation of the selector .","For the user, U, to determine whether the roll pin  is driven in to the proper depth (i.e., not too shallow and not too deep) during installation, or when the roll pin  has been driven out during removal; techniques such as (i) visual inspection, (ii) insertion of a shim or other thin device between the tool and the flanges of the lower receiver, (iii) inspection of the length of the pin punch  shaft portion that extends outside of the installation guide tool, or the like can be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIGS. 1","b":["2","3","10","14"]},"The description as follows is directed to a trigger guard roll pin tool  (wherein elements of the tool  are numbered  and above), and includes directional designations such as up, down, left (L), right (R), lateral, transverse, longitudinal, front, forward, back\/backward\/rearward, top, bottom, vertical, and the like, that are generally taken from the perspective of a firearm (gun, weapon, and the like, e.g., a conventional AR-10\/AR-15\/M16\/M4 family, style, platform, or pattern rifle and carbine, and variants thereof as typically held and operated (e.g., fired).","The description is generally related to and made in connection with the AR-15\/M16 pattern (platform, style, or family) rifles and M4 pattern carbines (i.e., weapons), and variants thereof (referred to as guns, weapons or firearms hereafter). The description is generally applicable to removal and installation of the retention roll pin  for the trigger guard subassembly  (e.g., the roll pin ), and the tool  may be advantageously implemented in connection with other firearms having the same or similar trigger guards. The trigger guard roll pin tool  is generally mounted on the lower receiver  in lieu of the hand grip to aid the removal and installation of the trigger guard subassembly . The trigger guard roll pin tool  generally provides a strong, secure, stable support to the trigger guard flange  (e.g., the trigger guard flanges R and L) the thus reducing the risk of breakage during removal and installation of the retention roll pin .","Elements (numbered  and above) of the present invention may include but are not necessarily included in all embodiments and are not limited to:\n\n","Referring to , an isometric view from the left, front, upper point of view of a trigger guard roll pin tool  of the present invention is shown. The trigger guard roll pin tool  comprises a mounting body , and successively to the left of the mounting body , a flange support , a spacer  and a base . Alternatively (not shown) a right side mirror embodiment of the invention may be implemented instead of the left side embodiment. The right side embodiment may be preferred by left handed users.","The tool  is generally molded, cast and\/or machined from a high (or heavy) density polyethylene (HDPE), ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE or UHMW), high strength nylon (e.g., Nylon 6), DELRIN, RYNITE, filled\/reinforced polymer, or metal such as aluminum, steel, brass, or the like. The tool  may be formed as a single unit; alternatively, the tool  may be an assembly of two or more parts that are securely joined. However, any appropriate material and manufacturing technique (process) may be implemented to meet the design criteria of a particular application.","The roll pin tool  provides support to the lower receiver flange  to reduce or prevent likelihood of breakage of the trigger guard pin flanges  during the trigger guard roll pin  installation and removal processes. The trigger guard roll pin tool  is quickly and easily removed when the desired tasks are started and when completed. The mounting body  includes a cavity (void)  that is sized and shaped to provide for mounting the tool  on the grip mounting flange .","The flange support  is generally implemented as a step (ledge, ridge, and the like) at the front of the tool . The flange support  fits tightly against (e.g., adjacent) the flange L and thereby reduces or prevents flex and breakage of the ear L when the roll pin  is driven in or out of (i.e., through) the pin hole L. The spacer  spaces the base  away from the receiver  and provides clearance for the selector  such that the selector  does not have to be removed from the receiver . The base  holds the receiver  and provides an impact resistant surface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIGS. 2 and 2A"],"b":["10","16","5","32","124","30","100","10","100","44","44","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"b":["20","16","104","102","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 4","FIG. 8","FIG. 4"],"b":["110","34","10","110","34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 4"],"b":["124","102","30","32","100","104","20","100","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 4","FIG. 11"],"b":["110","106","110","10","20","10","102","110"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 4"],"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 4"],"b":["130","130","22","104","106","110","100","22","14","14","12","130"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 9","FIG. 13","FIG. 4"],"b":["13","13","120","13","13","124"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 9","FIG. 14","FIG. 14"],"b":["14","14","104","106","14","14","120","120","104","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0082"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 9","FIG. 15"],"b":["15","15","15","15","110","106","106","34","106","34"]},"The firearm tool  is generally used by a user such as an armorer, gunsmith, repair or assembly technician, maintenance personnel, and the like. However, a home (non-commercial) user may find the trigger guard roll pin tool  to be a useful aid as well.","While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 9","FIG. 13","FIG. 4"],"b":["13","13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 9","FIG. 14","FIG. 4"],"b":["14","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 9","FIG. 15","FIG. 4"],"b":["15","15"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
