---
title: Slotted waveguide antenna with metamaterial structures
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a slotted waveguide antenna system. The slotted waveguide antenna system includes a waveguide that includes a first surface and a plurality of slots defined in the first surface and a metamaterial structure positioned external to the waveguide. The metamaterial structure is configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator, a substrate and a wire structure. The wire structure includes a first portion, a second portion and a third portion, the second portion coupled between the first portion and the second portion, the first portion oriented parallel to the third portion, the second portion oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595765&OS=09595765&RS=09595765
owner: Continental Microwave & Tool Co., Inc.
number: 09595765
owner_city: Exeter
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140705
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT","THE NAMES OF THE PARTIES TO A JOINT RESEARCH AGREEMENT","INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF MATERIAL SUBMITTED ON A COMPACT DISC","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Not applicable","Not applicable","Not applicable","Not applicable","Field of the Disclosure","This disclosure relates to a slotted waveguide antenna, in particular to a slotted waveguide antenna with metamaterial structures.","Description of Related Art","Generally, slotted waveguide antennas (SWAs) include a rectangular waveguide with slots formed in at least one surface. Electromagnetic energy may be provided to the SWA by a transmission line and\/or another waveguide configured to couple a transmitter and\/or receiver to the SWA. For example, SWAs may be used in navigational radar applications. SWAs may be configured to operate at one or more frequencies between about 1 gigahertz (GHz) and about 26 GHz.","SWA antenna characteristics, including gain and directivity, are related to a physical size of the SWA. In order to increase gain and\/or directivity, the size of the SWA may be increased. Increasing size may result in increased weight and\/or mechanical instability. SWA antenna characteristics may be improved without increasing size by adding dielectric material inside the waveguide. Dielectric materials can be lossy (i.e., non-zero loss tangent) and, thus, may detrimentally affect the gain of the SWA.","The present disclosure relates in one embodiment to a system. The system includes a slotted waveguide antenna and a metamaterial structure positioned external to the waveguide. The slotted waveguide antenna includes a waveguide configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The waveguide includes a first surface and a plurality of slots defined in the first surface, each slot configured to transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with frequencies in an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure is configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for the operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator comprising an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring, a substrate, and a wire structure. The wire structure includes a first portion, a second portion and a third portion. The second portion is coupled between the first portion and the second portion. The first portion is oriented parallel to the third portion. The second portion is oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.","The present disclosure relates in one embodiment to an apparatus. The apparatus includes a metamaterial structure configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator, a substrate and a wire structure. The split ring resonator includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring. The wire structure includes a first portion, a second portion and a third portion. The second portion is coupled between the first portion and the second portion. The first portion is oriented parallel to the third portion and the second portion is oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.","The present disclosure relates in another embodiment to an antenna system. The antenna system includes a slotted waveguide antenna. The slotted waveguide antenna includes a waveguide configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The waveguide includes a first surface and a first plurality of slots defined in the first surface. Each slot is configured to transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with frequencies in an operating frequency range. The antenna system further includes the first plurality of metamaterial structures positioned external to the waveguide. Each metamaterial structure is positioned relative to a respective slot and configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for the operating frequency range. Each metamaterial structure includes a second plurality of split ring resonators, a substrate and a composite wire structure. Each split ring resonator includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring. The composite wire structure includes a composite first portion, the second plurality of second portions and a composite third portion. The second plurality of second portions is coupled between the composite first portion and the composite second portion. The composite first portion is oriented parallel to the composite third portion. The second portions are oriented perpendicular to the composite first portion and the composite third portion. A dimension of at least one of the composite first portion and the composite third portion is related to the operating frequency range.","Generally, this disclosure describes a slotted waveguide antenna system and method. The slotted waveguide antenna system includes a slotted waveguide antenna (SWA) and a plurality of metamaterial structures positioned external to the SWA. The metamaterial structures are configured to enhance one or more performance characteristic(s) of the SWA. The performance characteristics include directivity, gain, bandwidth, beamwidth and\/or VSWR (voltage standing wave ratio). Thus, performance of the SWA may be enhanced without increasing a size of the SWA and\/or the size of the SWA may be decreased while maintaining performance characteristic(s) by the addition of the metamaterial structures.","The SWA includes a rectangular waveguide with a plurality of slots defined in a surface of the SWA. A plurality of metamaterial structures may be positioned external to the SWA, with a respective metamaterial structure positioned relative to each slot. In an embodiment, the metamaterial structures may be oriented parallel to the surface of the SWA. In another embodiment, the metamaterial structures may be oriented perpendicular to the surface of the SWA. As used herein, a parallel orientation corresponds to parallel within a finite tolerance and a perpendicular orientation corresponds to perpendicular within a tolerance. For example, tolerance for a perpendicular orientation may be \u00b14 degrees and tolerance for a parallel orientation may be \u00b10.005 inch. Each metamaterial structure may be positioned a distance from the surface of the SWA. Tolerance for this distance may correspond to the tolerance associated with the parallel orientation, i.e., \u00b10.005. The distance may be selected to enhance the operational characteristics of the SWA.","Metamaterials are structures that are configured to provide a material property that is not naturally present in materials. The material property is based, at least in part, on a physical configuration of the structure. Physical configuration parameters may include, but are not limited to, physical dimension(s), orientation(s), position(s), naturally occurring material propert(ies), relative orientation(s) and\/or relative position(s) of one or more element(s) of the metamaterial structure. Material properties that may be provided by a metamaterial include negative permeability and negative permittivity. The metamaterial may be configured to exhibit negative permittivity and negative permeability over a finite frequency band. The finite frequency band has a minimum frequency that corresponds to a cut off frequency and maximum frequency that corresponds to a plasma frequency. The plasma frequency is related to the physical configuration parameters. Thus, physical configuration parameters may be selected to provide a desired plasma frequency (and thereby the maximum frequency of the frequency band).","Metamaterial structures consistent with the present disclosure may each include an array of one or more metamaterial unit cell(s). Each metamaterial unit cell includes a split-ring resonator (SRR) structure, a substrate and a wire structure. Metamaterial structures consistent with the present disclosure are configured to provide a negative effective permeability (\u03bc) and a negative effective permittivity (\u2208) over an operating frequency range (i.e., band). The plasma frequency is configured to be greater than a maximum operating frequency. For example, the SRR structure may be configured to provide negative \u03bcand the wire structure may be configured to provide negative \u2208Thus, the metamaterial unit cells may be termed double negative metamaterials (DNM) and\/or negative index metamaterials (NIM). Metamaterial structures consistent with the present disclosure may then enhance one or more performance characteristics of the SWA over the operating frequency range.","Antenna performance characteristics may include, but are not limited to, directivity, gain, beamwidth, bandwidth and\/or voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR). Directivity is a ratio of a maximum radiation intensity from an antenna in a given direction to a radiation intensity averaged over all directions. The average radiation intensity is equal to the total power radiated by the antenna divided by 4\u03c0. Gain is a ratio of antenna radiation intensity, in a given direction, to the radiation intensity that would be obtained if the power accepted by the antenna were radiated isotropically. Gain does not include losses that may arise from impedance and polarization mismatches. The radiation intensity corresponding to the isotropically radiated power is equal to the power accepted by the antenna divided by 4\u03c0. If an antenna is without dissipative loss, then in any given direction, its gain is equal to its directivity.","Beamwidth corresponds to half-power beamwidth and is, in a radiation pattern cut containing a direction of a maximum of a lobe, an angle between the two directions in which the radiation intensity is one-half the maximum value. Bandwidth corresponds to a range of frequencies within which an antenna performance characteristics satisfies a defined criterion, e.g., gain at or above a value, VSWR at or below a value.","Voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) is the ratio of an amplitude of a partial standing wave at an antinode (maximum) to the amplitude at an adjacent node (minimum) of a transmission line, e.g., transmission line , feeding an antenna, e.g., SWA . VSWR is related to a reflection coefficient as VSWR=(1+magnitude of the reflection coefficient)\/(1\u2212magnitude of the reflection coefficient. The reflection coefficient is also known as return loss and\/or S-parameter S, as described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","106","104","102","106","102","104","102","102","104","104","102"]},"The SWA system  includes a SWA  and a plurality of metamaterial structures , . . . , . The SWA  is configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The SWA  includes a plurality of slots , . . . , defined in a surface of the SWA . The surface bounds the waveguide cavity. For example, SWA  may correspond to a conventional SWA. Each slot , . . . , may be generally rectangular shaped and may be positioned in the surface of the SWA  a distance \u03bb\/2 from an adjacent slot and\/or a distance \u03bb\/4 from an end of the SWA . The distances are measured from centers of the slots. Each slot may be further positioned a respective offset distance from a centerline of the SWA . As is known, \u03bbis a guided wavelength and is related to a cutoff frequency (i.e., wavelength of cutoff frequency) of a waveguide, a width of SWA  and a wavelength of an incident electromagnetic wave \u03bb. For example, SWA  may be a standing wave waveguide configured to radiate and\/or receive a fundamental mode transverse electric wave (TE). For a cutoff frequency, f, a corresponding wavelength, \u03bb, and an SWA width, a (long axis of slots parallel to a length dimension, b, of SWA ), \u03bb=2a and the guided wavelength is",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","g"]},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mi":"\u03bb","msqrt":{"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03bb","c"],"mn":"2"},"mo":"-","msup":{"mi":"\u03bb","mn":"2"}}}}}}},"br":{},"b":["108","104"]},"The transmission line  may be coupled to SWA . For example, the transmission line  may be coupled to the SWA  at an end perpendicular to the slotted surface. In another example, the transmission line  may be coupled to the SWA  at a surface that opposes the slotted surface. In other words, SWA  may be end fed and\/or center fed.","Each metamaterial structure , . . . , may be positioned external to the SWA , relative to a respective slot , . . . , . The metamaterial structures , . . . , are configured to enhance operation of the SWA  by enhancing coupling between each slot , . . . , and a medium in which the SWA  is operating, e.g., free space. The metamaterial structures , . . . , are configured to exhibit negative permeability and negative permittivity over a target frequency range that includes the operating frequency range of system  and SWA . Physical configuration parameters associated with the metamaterial structures , . . . , may be selected, determined and\/or optimized to achieve DNM characteristics for frequencies within the target frequency range. The metamaterial structures , . . . , may then be configured to enhance one or more antenna performance characteristics of SWA  for time varying signals with frequencies within the target frequency range.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIGS. 2A and 2B","FIG. 1"],"b":["202","202","202","202","102","202","202","208","218","208","230","236","218","202","202","220","220","218","208","220","220","236","220","220","232","234","208"],"sub":["m ","g","g"]},"SWA system A and SWA system B each includes a plurality of metamaterial structures A, . . . , H and A, . . . , H, respectively, positioned external to SWA . The metamaterial structures A, . . . , H of SWA system A are positioned perpendicular to first surface . Thus, SWA system A may correspond to a \u201cvertical\u201d orientation of metamaterial structure with respect to SWA . The metamaterial structures A, . . . , H of SWA system B are positioned parallel to first surface . Thus, SWA system B may correspond to a \u201chorizontal\u201d orientation of metamaterial structure with respect to SWA . In this context, \u201cvertical\u201d and \u201chorizontal\u201d are merely labels configured to differentiate between a first embodiment, e.g., SWA system A, and a second embodiment, e.g., SWA system B, of an SWA with metamaterial structures, consistent with various embodiments of the present disclosure. The metamaterial structures A, . . . , H and A, . . . , H may be positioned and\/or oriented so that a long axis dimension, l, of each metamaterial structure is generally perpendicular to a long axis (e.g., dimension 2*s) of a respective slot. The metamaterial structures A, . . . , H and A, . . . , H may be further positioned and\/or oriented so that at least a portion of at least one metamaterial unit cell (as described herein) of each metamaterial structure is positioned at or near a center of the respective slot. In other words, each metamaterial structures A, . . . , H and A, . . . , H may or may not be centered relative a respective slot in a width direction of the SWA.","A number of metamaterial structures corresponds to the number of slots A, . . . , H. For example, a SWA system with eight slots may include eight metamaterial structures. In another example, an SWA system with sixteen (or more) slots may include sixteen (or more) metamaterial structures. Each metamaterial structure is positioned a distance, d, from the first surface . In an embodiment, dmay be adjusted to enhance and\/or to facilitate enhancing one or more SWA performance characteristics, as described herein. Each metamaterial structure, is further centered in a length dimension (i.e., long axis) of a respective slot. Thus, for a slot length 2*s, each metamaterial structure may be centered within a tolerance a distance sfrom each end of the slot. For example, the tolerance may be \u00b10.01.","One or more metamaterial structures A, . . . , H, may be included in a respective metamaterial structure assembly A, . . . , D. For example, metamaterial structure assembly A includes metamaterial structures A and B. Metamaterial structure assembl(ies) A, . . . , D are configured to facilitate mounting metamaterial structures A, . . . , H to SWA . Metamaterial structure assembl(ies) A, . . . , D may include mounting features configured to facilitate attaching metamaterial structure assembl(ies) (i.e., A, . . . , D) to SWA .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B","b":["300","350","300","350","300","350","302","304","308","358","302","310","312","300","306","322","306","312","302","322","312","350","352","352","352","352"]},"Thus, a plurality of metamaterial structures may be positioned relative to the plurality of slots, external to a slotted waveguide antenna. In an embodiment, the metamaterial structures may be oriented in parallel with the surface of the SWA that defines the slots. In another embodiment, the metamaterial structures may be oriented perpendicular to the surface of the SWA that defines the slots. The metamaterial structures are configured to enhance one more performance characteristics of the SWA, as described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","112","112","400"],"i":["a","n "]},"Metamaterial unit cell  includes a split ring resonator (SRR) , a substrate  and a wire structure . The substrate  is positioned between the SRR  and the wire structure . The metamaterial unit cell  and\/or substrate  may have a width aand a length a. The metamaterial unit cell  may further have a thickness athat includes a thickness Tof the substrate and thicknesses of the SRR  and wire structure . Thus, in an xyz coordinate system, width corresponds to the x direction, length corresponds to the z direction and thickness corresponds to the y direction. It should be noted that definition of the coordinate system is for ease of description. Element(s) of SRR , substrate  and wire structure  are generally planar in the xz plane.","The SRR  includes an outer split ring  and a concentric inner split ring . Each split ring ,  may have a generally rectangular shape. Each split ring ,  includes a conductive portion (e.g., a trace) that defines a respective gap ,  (i.e., a \u201csplit\u201d). The gaps ,  may thus not be conductive and may expose a portion of substrate . The wire structure  includes a first portion , a second portion and a third portion . A long axis of the first portion and a long axis of the third portion are oriented generally in parallel. The second portion is connected to, and positioned between, the first portion and the third portion . The second portion is oriented generally perpendicular to the first portion and to the third portion . As used herein, generally perpendicular and generally parallel correspond to perpendicular and parallel to within manufacturing tolerances. The splits ,  may be generally aligned with the second portion of the wire structure . A first portion of the outer split ring  that includes gap  may overlay the first portion of wire structure  and a second portion of the outer split ring  may overlay the third portion of the wire structure . The relative positions and dimensions of outer split ring  and inner split ring  are configured to provide a resonance related to a maximum operating frequency, as described herein. The relative positions and dimensions of wire structure  and first second and third portions A, B, C are configured to enhance coupling between SRR  and wire structure  and are configured to provide a second resonance that may enhance operating bandwidth.","Substrate  may correspond to a printed circuit board having a first surface  and an opposing second surface . The first surface  and second surface  may be generally planar. SRR  may then be formed on the first surface  and wire structure  may be formed on the opposing second surface . In this example, SRR  and wire structure  may then correspond to conductive traces. For example, the conductive traces may include copper. The substrate  may include and\/or be formed of a dielectric material that has a relative permittivity (i.e., dielectric constant), \u2208, and a loss tangent. For example, substrate  may have a relative permittivity (i.e., dielectric constant) of 2.2 and a loss tangent of 0.009.","Nominal physical dimensions of the wire structure  and nominal physical dimensions of the SRR  may be determined based, at least in part, on a target operating frequency range. Metamaterial structures, as described herein, are configured to exhibit both negative permittivity and negative permeability over a target frequency range that includes an operating frequency range. Metamaterial structures may be considered homogeneous when a maximum physical dimension of the metamaterial structure is less than or equal to \u03bb\/10 where \u03bb corresponds to a wavelength of a maximum operating frequency. Wavelength may be determined from \u03bb=\u03bd\/f, where \u03bd is propagation velocity of an electromagnetic wave in a medium, f is frequency of the electromagnetic wave in cycles\/second and \u03bb is wavelength in meters. \u03bd is related to c, propagation velocity of an electromagnetic wave in a vacuum (i.e., 3\u00d710meters\/sec), as \u03bd=c\/n where n a refractive index that depends, at least in part, on material properties (e.g., permittivity and permeability) of the medium. The maximum physical dimension may be utilized with maximum operating frequency in determination of the nominal physical dimensions of the wire structure  and\/or the SRR , as described herein.","Wire structure  is configured to provide negative permittivity and SRR  is configured to provide negative permeability. Permittivity and\/or permeability may be negative for frequencies less than an associated plasma frequency. Thus, physical dimensions of wire structure  and SRR  may be determined based, at least in part, on an operating frequency range. In other words, one or more physical dimension(s) of wire structure  and one or more physical dimension(s) of SRR  may be selected and\/or optimized so that an associated plasma frequency is greater than or equal to a maximum operating frequency of an associated SWA, e.g., SWA . The maximum operating frequency may correspond to a center frequency plus one-half of an operating bandwidth. For example, for a center frequency of 9.5 GHz and an operating bandwidth of 400 megahertz (MHz), the maximum operating frequency may correspond to 9.5+(2*0.4)=9.7 GHz. Continuing with this example, metamaterial unit cell  may be configured to provide a plasma frequency of greater than 9.7 GHz. For example, the target plasma frequency may be in a range of about 10 GHz to about 11 GHz. Of course, wire structure  may be configured with other physical dimensions to provide a different maximum operating frequency associated with a different operational frequency range.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A and 5B","FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 5A","FIGS. 5A and 5B","FIGS. 4A and 4B"],"b":["500","550","500","406","550","402","500","502","504","506","406","512","502","516","506","504","502","506","504","502","506"]},"Each wire structure portion , ,  may have a conductor width, d. For example, the conductor width d may correspond to trace width of a printed circuit board trace. A length of the first portion  corresponds d+p+pwhere pis a length of the first portion  on a first side (e.g., \u2212x direction) of the first portion  and pis a length of the first portion  on a second side (e.g. +x direction) of the first portion . At least one of pand pis greater than zero. Similarly, a length of the third portion  corresponds to d+p+p. At least one of pand pis greater than zero. p, p, pand\/or pmay or may not be a same length. A distance, p, between adjacent wire structures in a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells may correspond to a distance between respective second portions  of the adjacent wire structures. The distance may be related to one or more of p, p, pand p. Length(s) of p, p, pand\/or pmay vary between metamaterial unit cells in a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells.","Effective permittivity \u2208may be defined (based, e.g., on a Drude polarization model) as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u025b","eff"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"],"mn":"2"},"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"},"mo":"+","mi":"j\u03c9\u03b6"}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["p ","eff ","p"],"sup":["2","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]},"mo":"=","msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03c0","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":"c","mn":"2"}},{"msup":{"mi":"p","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["p","d"]}}}}]}}}}},"br":{},"sup":"8 ","b":["500","404"],"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B","sub":["r ","r "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mi":"\u03b6","mo":"=","mfrac":{"msup":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mi":"d","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","p"]}},"mi":"p"}}},"mn":"2"},"mi":"\u03c0\u03c3"}}}},"br":{}},"Trace width, d, and length parameters related to the first portion  and to the third portion  (i.e., p, p, p, p) may be selected and\/or determined based, at least in part, on a maximum operating frequency. Setting \u03c9equal to \u03a9\u2212\u03b6, substituting the equations for plasma frequency and damping coefficient above and setting co equal to a maximum operating frequency plus a margin (e.g., ten percent) yields one equation with two unknowns (p, d) that includes the unknowns raised to powers greater than one and a natural logarithm of a ratio of the unknowns. The distance between adjacent wire structure second portions, p, may be further constrained based on wavelength of the maximum operating frequency plus the margin as p<=\u03bb\/10 where \u03bb corresponds to the wavelength of the maximum operating frequency plus the margin. A numerical computation utility may then be utilized to determine value pairs of d and p that satisfy the constraints. For example, MathWorks\u00ae MATLAB\u00ae numerical computation software, available from MathWorks\u00ae, Natick, Mass., may be utilized to parameterize \u03a9=\u03c9\u2212\u03b6to optimize values for d and p. p, p, p, pmay then be related to p. For example, each p, p, p, pmay be initially set to p\/2. p, p, p, p, may be further adjusted to refine operational characteristics of a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells, as described in more detail below.","Thus, wire structure  may be configured to provide negative relative permittivity for frequencies at or below a maximum operating frequency by selection, determination and\/or optimization of trace width, d, and distance, p, between second portions of respective adjacent wire structure in a metamaterial structure that includes an array of wire structures.","Turning now to , SRR  includes an outer split ring  and a concentric inner split ring . Each split ring ,  has a generally rectangular shape and may be formed of a conductive material, e.g., may be a conductive trace. Outer corners of each split ring ,  may be removed and each inner corner of the outer ring  may be filled with conductive material to provide a relatively smaller discontinuity at the corners. Width and length dimensions described herein are defined away from the corners. Width dimensions are generally defined parallel to an x-axis and length dimensions are defined generally parallel to a z-axis consistent with the descriptions associated with . Each split ring ,  includes a conductive portion that defines a respective gap ,  (i.e., a \u201csplit\u201d). Each split ring ,  conductor has a nominal width, d. A z centerline  may be defined parallel to a z axis. The z centerline  may be centered in gaps , . An x centerline  may be defined parallel to an x axis. The z and x centerlines  and  are mutually perpendicular and cross at a geometric center of SRR  (i.e., center point ). A distance, p, between adjacent SRRs in an array of SRRs may be measured between center points, e.g., center point .","Inner split ring  has a width wand a length hand outer split ring  has a width wand a length h. An inner edge of inner split ring  defines an area that has width 2*r. The inner split ring  may be separated from the outer split ring  by one or more gaps. The gaps may be measured between an inner edge of outer split ring  and an outer edge of inner split ring . A first gap has a length gmeasured relatively near the slit . A second gap has a length gmeasured relatively near the slit . A third gap has a width gmeasured relatively near the x centerline .","One or more of the various physical dimensions may be selected, adjusted and\/or optimized to achieve a negative effective permeability for frequencies below a magnetic plasma frequency associated with SRR . Similar to the operations associated with determining nominal physical dimensions of wire structure  to achieve negative permittivity over the operating frequency range, nominal physical dimensions of SRR  may be selected, adjusted and\/or optimized to achieve negative permeability.","Effective permeability \u03bcmay be defined as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","eff"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["r","d"]}}},"mn":"2"}}},{"msup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mn":"2"},"mo":["-","+"],"msubsup":{"mi":"\u03c9","mrow":{"mi":["m","r","f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]},"mn":"2"},"mi":"j\u03c9\u03b6"}]}}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":"mrf ","b":["550","560","554","554","552","554","552","554"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mrow":{"mi":["m","r","f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"c","mo":"\u2062","msqrt":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mn":"3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"d"},{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":"r","mn":"3"},"mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mi":"p"},"mi":"g"}}}}]}}}}}},"br":{},"b":["554","552"],"sub":["x","z1","z2 ","mpf"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mrow":{"mi":["m","p","f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03c9","mrow":{"mi":["m","r","f"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"msqrt":{"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03c0","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["r","d"]}}},"mn":"2"}}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["p","mpf ","mrf ","mrf"],"b":"404","figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},"\u03bcmay be negative when \u03c9<\u03c9<\u03c9. Thus, for SRR , the operating frequency range includes an upper bound defined by the magnetic plasma frequency and a lower bound defined by the magnetic resonant frequency. Further, the magnetic resonant frequency and the magnetic plasma frequency are not independent.","Conductor (e.g., trace) width, d, and physical dimensions of outer split ring and inner split ring, e.g., split rings  , may be determined based, at least in part, on a maximum operating frequency and a minimum operating frequency of the operating frequency range of an associated SWA. A target magnetic plasma frequency may be selected that is greater than the maximum operating frequency. Initial values may be selected for width wand length hbased, at least in part, on the maximum operating frequency. For example, initial values of wand\/or hmay be selected to be less than or equal to \u03bb\/10, where \u03bb corresponds to the wavelength of the maximum operating frequency in air. These initial values for wand\/or hmay then be related to r, g, p and\/or d by the geometry of SRR , thus providing additional constraints. For example, p may be constrained as p>2(r+g+2*d), corresponding to the distance between the center points of two adjacent SRRs. An initial dimension for trace width, d, e.g., 0.010 inch, may be selected. A numerical computation utility, e.g., MathWorks\u00ae MATLAB\u00ae may then be utilized to determine values of d, r, g and p that yield a negative effective permeability over at least the operating frequency band. For example, MathWorks\u00ae MATLAB\u00ae numerical computation software may be utilized to parameterize \u03c9and \u03c9to optimize values for r, d, p and g. The optimized values for r, d, p and g are configured to satisfy \u03c9<a minimum operating frequency and \u03c9>a maximum operating frequency for an SRR with maximum dimension less than \u03bb\/10 for the maximum operating frequency. The optimized values for r, d, p and g may be further adjusted to refine operational characteristics of a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells, as described in more detail below. Thus, SRR  may be configured to provide negative relative permeability over an operating frequency range by selection, determination and\/or optimization of physical dimensions r, d, p and g.","Thus, based, at least in part, on a maximum operating frequency, a plasma frequency and a magnetic plasma frequency may be selected and nominal physical dimensions of a wire structure and an SRR of a metamaterial unit cell may be selected, determined and\/or optimized. The nominal dimensions of the metamaterial unit cells and\/or the metamaterial structure that includes the array of metamaterial unit cells may then be refined to enhance performance of an associated SWA, as described in more detail below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A, 6B and 6C","FIG. 1"],"b":["610","630","650","610","630","650","500","550","102"]},"Simulation parameters may include, for example, one or more S-parameter(s) (i.e., scatter parameters, scatter coefficients) and or a resonant frequency related to the SWA. For example, a target resonant frequency of a metamaterial structure may correspond to the resonant frequency of each slot in SWA . S-parameters provide an input-output relationship between ports in an electrical system and facilitate a \u201cblack box\u201d approach to the electrical system. In other words, S-parameters facilitate characterizing the electrical system based on the input-output relationships. For example, for an antenna, S-parameter Srepresents an amount of power reflected from the antenna relative to an amount of power provided to the antenna and corresponds to return loss (also known as reflection coefficient). A minimum return loss corresponds to a maximum power delivered to the antenna. The power delivered to the antenna may then be radiated and\/or absorbed by losses within the antenna. S-parameter Srepresent power transferred from a first port to a second port. For example, Smay correspond to power received at a second antenna relative to power input to a first antenna. Thus, S, also known as forward loss, may include transmission losses.","The circuit simulation utility may be utilized to adjust lumped element values (e.g., corresponding to lumped element models , , ) to achieve a target resonant frequency. The circuit simulation utility may be configured to adjust lumped element values based, at least in part, on one or more S-parameter values received from, e.g., the electromagnetic field simulation utility. For example, Genesys RF and Microwave Design Software, available from Agilent Technologies, Inc., Santa Clara, Calif., may be utilized to perform circuit simulations of the lumped element models , , .","The electromagnetic field simulation utility may be utilized to adjust one or more physical configuration parameter(s), e.g., trace width and\/or gap spacing, to achieve a target resonant frequency. For example, the electromagnetic field simulation utility may allow parameterizing one or more physical configuration parameter(s) in order to achieve the target resonant frequency. The electromagnetic field simulation utility may be configured to provide one or more S-parameters related to one or more physical configuration parameters. For example, ANSYS\u00ae HFSS\u2122, available from ANSYS\u00ae, Inc., Canonsburg, Pa., may be utilized to perform electromagnetic field simulations, as described herein.","The lumped element models , ,  correspond to lumped element transmission line models of wire structure , SRR  and a metamaterial unit cell, respectively. The metamaterial unit cell, e.g., metamaterial unit cell  of , includes a wire structure, a substrate and an SRR. Thus, elements in the lumped element models , ,  are related to physical configuration parameters of the wire structure, SRR and metamaterial unit cell. Values associated with the lumped elements may be adjusted based, at least in part, on electromagnetic field simulation results. The physical configuration of the wire structure, SRR and metamaterial unit cell used for the electromagnetic field simulation may then be adjusted based, at least in part, on the adjusted lumped element values. The electromagnetic field simulation results may be generated based, at least in part, on the physical configuration of the wire structure, SRR and metamaterial unit cell, including the respective physical configuration parameters. The adjustments and simulations may be repeated until one or more simulation parameters converge. The metamaterial unit cell physical configuration associated with the converged simulation parameters may then be utilized as an initial metamaterial unit cell configuration in a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells. The metamaterial structure may then be simulated (e.g., electromagnetic field simulation) for further optimization alone and\/or positioned relative to a slot of an SWA, as described herein.","Turning to , lumped element model  corresponds to, for example, SRR  of . Lumped element model  includes a first capacitor C in series with a second capacitor C in series with a resistor R. The lumped element model  further includes an inductor L coupled in parallel with the first capacitor C. The capacitances of capacitors C, C are related to slits and\/or gaps between the inner split ring and the outer split ring of an SRR. The inductance of inductor L corresponds to inductance of the conductors. The resistor R represents resistive loss of the SRR structure. Lumped element model  may exhibit one or more resonances. For example, for C with a capacitance of 1.1 picofarads (pF), C with a capacitance of 0.23 pF, R with a resistance of 1 ohm (\u03a9) and L with an inductance of 0.252 nano-henries (nH), the lumped element model exhibits two resonances. A first resonance corresponds to a magnetic resonant frequency at 9.57 GHz and a second resonance corresponds to a transmission peak at 8.69 GHz. In this example, the element values of lumped element model  were optimized until S-parameters (e.g., S-parameters Sand S) output from the electromagnetic field simulation utility matched, to within a tolerance, the S-parameters output from the circuit simulation utility.","Turning to , lumped element model  corresponds to, for example, wire structure  of . Lumped element model  includes two inductors L, L, two capacitors C, C and two resistors R, R, all connected in series. The capacitances of capacitors C and C and the inductances of inductors L and L are related to the first, second and third portions , ,  of the wire structure . The resistors R and R represents resistive losses associated with the wire structure . Lumped element model  may exhibit a resonance related to the inductances and capacitances. For example, for R and R each with a resistances of 0.5\u03a9, C with a capacitance of 0.036 pF, C with a capacitance of 1.5 pF, L with an inductance of 7 nH and L with an inductance of 1 nH, lumped element model  exhibits a resonance at or near 9.57 GHz for return loss (i.e., S-parameter S). In comparison, the electromagnetic field simulation utility provided a resonance frequency of 9.50 GHz for this example.","Turning to , lumped element model  corresponds to, for example, metamaterial unit cell  of , and may include, for example, wires structure , a substrate and SRR . Lumped element model  includes two inductors L, L, two capacitors C, C and two resistors R, R, all connected in series. These lumped elements are related to the lumped elements of lumped element model . A number and configuration of the lumped elements (i.e., L, L, C, C, R, R) correspond to lumped element model . Initially, the element values may be the same as lumped element model  but may be further optimized to include coupling effects associated combining the wire structure, e.g., wire structure , with an SRR, e.g., SRR  and a substrate, e.g., substrate .","Lumped element model  further includes a resistor R coupled to a node that is also coupled to R and R. Resistor R is further coupled in series to capacitor C and capacitor C is coupled in series to a parallel combination of C and L. The lumped elements R, C, C and L correspond to lumped element model . Initially, the element values of R, C, C and L may be the same as lumped element model  but may be further optimized to include coupling effects associated combining the SRR with a wire structure and a substrate. Lumped element model  may exhibit one or more resonances related to the inductances and capacitances. For example, for R, R and R each with a resistances of 1.0\u03a9, C with a capacitance of 1.125 pF, C with a capacitance of 0.32 pF, C with a capacitance of 0.035 pF, C with a capacitance of 0.5 pF, L with an inductance of 7 nH, L with an inductance of 1 nH and L with an inductance of 0.248 nH, lumped element model  exhibits two resonances. A first resonance frequency at about 8.4 GHz and a second resonant frequency at about 9.5 GHz.","Thus, a combination of a lumped element model, a circuit simulation utility, a simulated wire structure, SRR and\/or metamaterial unit cell structure and an electromagnetic field simulation utility may be utilized to optimize physical configuration parameters of a metamaterial unit cell, consistent with the present disclosure. The individual metamaterial unit cell may then be combined into an array of metamaterial unit cells to form a metamaterial structure, as described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIGS. 2A and 2B"],"b":["700","700","702","704","706","202","202","700","700","208","700"]},"In this example, the three SRRs , ,  are configured to be identical to within a manufacturing tolerance. For example, for a conductive portions formed on a printed circuit board substrate, manufacturing tolerance is \u00b10.001 inch. Thus, a description and\/or dimensions of SRR  may apply to SRRs  and . For ease of description, a width corresponds to a dimension parallel to an x-axis and a length corresponds to a dimension parallel to a z-axis. SRR  includes an outer split ring  and an inner split ring . Inner split ring  is positioned in a region substantially circumscribed by outer split ring . Outer split ring  has a length D and a width D. Inner split ring  has a length D and a width D. Inner split ring  defines a substantially rectangular region that has a length D and a width D. An upper gap (i.e., a length) between an outer edge of inner split ring  and an inner edge of outer split ring  has length D. A lower gap (i.e., a length) between an outer edge of inner split ring  and an inner edge of outer split ring  has length D. A gap (i.e., a width) between SRR  and SRR  has a width D. A side gap (i.e., a width) between an outer edge of inner split ring  and an inner edge of outer split ring  has width D.","In this example , a trace width of the inner split ring  corresponds to a trace width of the outer split ring  and has a dimension TW. In this example SRR array , a width of a split defined by inner split ring  corresponds to a width of a split defined by outer split ring  and both have a width S. In other configurations, TW and\/or S may not be the same for both the inner split ring  and the outer split ring . In this example SRR array , the split defined by inner split ring  and the split defined by outer split ring  are positioned on opposite sides of a centerline parallel to the x-axis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 2A and 2B"],"b":["800","800","800","800","800","202","202"]},"Composite wire structure  includes a plurality of unit cell second portions A, B, C that are coupled between a composite first portion  and a composite second portion . Centerline  corresponds to a centerline of the second portion A of a unit cell wire structure positioned between adjacent unit cell wire structures. The composite first portion  includes a first segment A that has width D and a second segment B that has width D. The composite second portion  includes third segment A that has width D and fourth segment B that has width D. Widths D, D, D, D are measured from the centerline . Each of the unit cell second portions A, B, C has a length D measured between the composite first portion  and the composite second portion .","The first segment A, third segment A and second portions A and B define a first generally rectangular region  that has width D and length D. The second segment B, fourth segment B and second portions A and C define a second generally rectangular  region that has width D and length D. In this example, the first and second generally rectangular regions ,  have a same width D, to within a manufacturing tolerance. In some embodiments, the first and second rectangular regions ,  may have unequal width dimensions. In this example, each unit cell second portion A, B, C, composite first portion  and composite third portion  has a trace width of TW. In some embodiments, trace width(s) of one or more of unit cell second portion(s) A, B, C, composite first portion  and composite third portion  may not be the same.","Composite wire structure  may be combined with SRR array  and a substrate to form a metamaterial structure. For example, SRR array  may be formed on a first surface of the substrate and wire structure  may be formed on an opposing second surface of the substrate. In this example, a centerline  of SRR array  may be aligned with the centerline  of wire structure . The centerline  of SRR array  may thus correspond to a centerline of the metamaterial structure that includes SRR array . Centerline  of SRR array  corresponds to a centerline of SRR . In some embodiments, in part because of asymmetry associated with wire structure , centerlines of, for example, SRR  and SRR  may not align with the respective unit cell second portions B, C.","Tables 1 and 2 include dimensions of SRR Array  and composite wire structure  assembled into metamaterial structures that were simulated and prototyped. The substrate was RT\/Duroid\u00ae 5880 available from Rogers Corporation, Chandler, Ariz., that has a dielectric constant of 2.2 for frequencies between 8 GHz and 40 GHz and a loss tangent of 0.0009. Substrate thickness was 0.031 inch. Of course, other substrate materials may be used that have a similar thickness and a similar dielectric constant and loss tangent for a target operating frequency range. Table 1 includes the dimensions of SRR array  for a metamaterial structure oriented perpendicular (\u201cvertical\u201d) to a slotted surface of a SWA (e.g., SWA system A of ) and for a metamaterial structure oriented parallel (\u201chorizontal\u201d) to the slotted surface of the SWA (e.g., SWA system B of ). The dimensions of SRR array  have been selected, determined and\/or optimized based, at least in part, on a target operational frequency range 9.5 GHz\u00b1400 MHz, as described herein. The dimensions correspond to prototypes constructed and tested that yielded test data, as described herein. It may be appreciated that tolerances on the dimensions for SRR array  are generally within \u00b10.001 inch (e.g., manufacturing tolerance) for the perpendicular and the parallel orientation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Dimension","Horizontal","Vertical"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["D1","0.156","0.157"]},{"entry":["D2","0.136","0.138"]},{"entry":["D3","0.080","0.078"]},{"entry":["D4","0.089","0.090"]},{"entry":["D5","0.042","0.038"]},{"entry":["D6","0.051","0.050"]},{"entry":["D7","0.019","0.020"]},{"entry":["D8","0.019","0.020"]},{"entry":["D9","0.005","0.003"]},{"entry":["\u2002D10","0.005","0.004"]},{"entry":["TW1","0.019","0.020"]},{"entry":["S1","0.010","0.010"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Table 2 includes the dimensions of composite wire structure  for a metamaterial structure oriented perpendicular (\u201cvertical\u201d) to a slotted surface of a SWA (e.g., SWA system A of ) and for a metamaterial structure oriented parallel (\u201chorizontal\u201d) to the slotted surface of the SWA (e.g., SWA system B of ). The dimensions of composite wire structure  have been selected, determined and\/or optimized based, at least in part, on a target operational frequency range, e.g., 9.5 GHz center frequency and 400 MHz bandwidth, as described herein. It may be appreciated that tolerances on the dimensions for composite wire structure  are generally within \u00b10.001 inch (e.g., manufacturing tolerance) for the perpendicular and the parallel orientation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Dimension","Horizontal","Vertical"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["D11","0.180","0.190"]},{"entry":["D12","0.180","0.170"]},{"entry":["D13","0.175","0.180"]},{"entry":["D14","0.185","0.180"]},{"entry":["D15","0.136","0.126"]},{"entry":["D16","0.115 \u00b1 0.001","0.120"]},{"entry":["D17","0.176","0.166"]},{"entry":["TW2","0.020","0.020"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIGS. 9 through 15","FIGS. 9 through 15","FIGS. 9 through 14"],"b":["700","800","700","800"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 9 through 11","FIG. 12 through 14"],"b":["902","1002","1102","904","1004","1104","1202","1302","1402","1204","1304","1404"]},"Tables 3 and 4 include parameters and data associated with  and , respectively. Parameters include gain, directivity, beamwidth, left sidelobe (\u201cLSL\u201d) area and right sidelobe (\u201cRSL\u201d) area. Table 3 includes data associated with simulated and measured E-plane cuts for a SWA without metamaterial structures, with metamaterials structures oriented perpendicular (\u201cvertical\u201d) to the SWA and with metamaterial structures oriented parallel (\u201chorizontal\u201d) to the SWA, respectively. With attention to the beamwidth for the E-plane cut for the vertical configuration, it is contemplated that instability in the test set up contributed to the variation in beamwidth between the simulated and measured data for this configuration.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Control","Horizontal","Vertical"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Parameter","Simulated","Measured","Simulated","Measured","Simulated","Measured"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Gain (dB)","N\/A","14.2","N\/A","16.6","N\/A","15.5"]},{"entry":["Directivity (dB)","15.3","15.5","17.02","17.07","17.1","16.0"]},{"entry":["Beamwidth","43.5","40.2","35.3","35.6","32","44.2"]},{"entry":["(deg)",{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["LSL (dB)","\u22127.6","\u22126","\u221216.9","\u221216.8","\u221215.3","\u221213.6"]},{"entry":["RSL (dB)","\u22127.5","\u22125.6","\u221217.15","\u221215.11","\u221215.6","\u221211.1"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Table 4 includes data associated with simulated and measured H-plane cuts for a SWA without metamaterial structures, with metamaterials structures oriented perpendicular (\u201cvertical\u201d) to the SWA and with metamaterial structures oriented parallel (\u201chorizontal\u201d) to the SWA, respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 4"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":[{},"Control","Horizontal","Vertical"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Parameter","Simulated","Measured","Simulated","Measured","Simulated","Measured"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"7"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"7","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Gain (dB)","N\/A","14.2","N\/A","16.6","N\/A","15.5"]},{"entry":["Directivity (dB)","15.3","15.5","17.02","17.07","17.1","16.2"]},{"entry":["Beamwidth","18.8","18.7","19","19.5","18.7","19"]},{"entry":["(deg)",{},{},{},{},{},{}]},{"entry":["LSL (dB)","\u221214.5","\u221213.9","\u221215.3","\u221217.75","\u221214.5","\u221213.65"]},{"entry":["RSL (dB)","\u221216.13","\u221214.9","\u221216.3","\u221216.92","\u221215.3","\u221214.64"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"7","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIGS. 2A and 2B"],"sub":"11","b":["208","1502","1504","1506"]},"Thus, a plurality of metamaterial structures may be positioned relative to the plurality of slots, external to a slotted waveguide antenna. In an embodiment, the metamaterial structures may be oriented in parallel with the surface of the SWA that defines the slots. In another embodiment, the metamaterial structures may be oriented perpendicular to the surface of the SWA that defines the slots. The metamaterial structures are configured to enhance one more performance characteristics of the SWA, as described herein.","According to one aspect, there is provided a system. The system includes a slotted waveguide antenna and a metamaterial structure positioned external to the waveguide. The slotted waveguide antenna includes a waveguide configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The waveguide includes a first surface and a plurality of slots defined in the first surface, each slot configured to transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with frequencies in an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure is configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for the operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator comprising an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring, a substrate and a wire structure. The wire structure includes a first portion, a second portion and a third portion. The second portion is coupled between the first portion and the second portion. The first portion is oriented parallel to the third portion. The second portion is oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.","According to another aspect, there is provided an apparatus. The apparatus includes a metamaterial structure configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator, a substrate and a wire structure. The split ring resonator includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring. The wire structure includes a first portion, a second portion and a third portion. The second portion is coupled between the first portion and the second portion. The first portion is oriented parallel to the third portion and the second portion is oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.","According to another aspect, there is provided an antenna system. The antenna system includes a slotted waveguide antenna. The slotted waveguide antenna includes a waveguide configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The waveguide includes a first surface and a first plurality of slots defined in the first surface. Each slot is configured to transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with frequencies in an operating frequency range. The antenna system further includes the first plurality of metamaterial structures positioned external to the waveguide. Each metamaterial structure is positioned relative to a respective slot and configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for the operating frequency range. Each metamaterial structure includes a second plurality of split ring resonators, a substrate and a composite wire structure. Each split ring resonator includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring. The composite wire structure includes a composite first portion, the second plurality of second portions and a composite third portion. The second plurality of second portions is coupled between the composite first portion and the composite second portion. The composite first portion is oriented parallel to the composite third portion. The second portions are oriented perpendicular to the composite first portion and the composite third portion. A dimension of at least one of the composite first portion and the composite third portion is related to the operating frequency range.","Although illustrative embodiments and methods have been shown and described, a wide range of modifications, changes, and substitutions is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances some features of the embodiments or steps of the method may be employed without a corresponding use of other features or steps. Accordingly, it is appropriate that the claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the embodiments disclosed herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A and 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A, 6B and 6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 9 through 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
