---
title: Real-time incident control and site management
abstract: Embodiments of a system are disclosed for real-time incident control and site management, which enables update-to-date monitoring of every location of a multi-unit site and efficient direction of operations on a site-wide basis. The system communicates with parties onsite via text messaging or similar means, analyzes the communication to determine a status for each unit of the site, and presents a graphical overview of the site with the status information, which allows a commander using the system to control the actions of the parties onsite in an efficient and effective manner. The system also coordinates with support agencies, such as law enforcement agencies, to facilitate assistance of the parties onsite.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607502&OS=09607502&RS=09607502
owner: SWIFTREACH NETWORKS, INC.
number: 09607502
owner_city: Mahwah
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140616
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61\/932,507 filed Jan. 28, 2014, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.","This patent application generally relates to incident control and site management, and more specifically to providing a management system with web-based user interfaces to facilitate communication with parties located onsite and other support members as well as management of onsite operations.","When a site, such as a sports complex or a school, is physically expansive, it could be difficult to manage all operations at the site in real time. Such management could be especially challenging yet critical when a scheduled event or an unexpected incident is taking place across the site, such as a baseball tournament or a gunman shooting. It would therefore be useful to be able to monitor the status of every location onsite in real time and direct the operations on a site-wide basis in an efficient and comprehensive manner.","The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the claimed embodiments. Further, the drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be expanded or reduced to help improve the understanding of the embodiments. Similarly, some components and\/or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments. Moreover, while the various embodiments are amenable to various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention, however, is not to limit the particular embodiments described. On the contrary, the embodiments are intended to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the scope of the disclosed embodiments as defined by the appended claims.","According to various embodiments disclosed in the present application, a system for real-time incident control and site management enables update-to-date monitoring of every location of a site and efficient direction of operations on a site-wide basis. The system may be used for day-to-day management of a site or for the handling of scheduled events and unexpected incidents onsite.","As an incident occurs at a site, the system communicates with parties onsite via text messaging or similar means, analyzes the communication to determine a status for each unit of the site, and presents a graphical overview of the site with the status information, which allows a commander using the system to control the actions of the parties onsite in an efficient and effective manner. Based on ongoing communication, the system refreshes the graphical overview of the site with updated status information. As an example, as a shooting occurs at a school, the system communicates with the teachers, students, staff members, and other people who are on the school ground via text messaging or similar means. It analyzes the text messages and other information received from the people onsite to assess the status of each room and space of the school, such as whether the shooter is present and how many are injured. The system then presents a graphical overview of the school indicating the status of each room and space, which enables the proper allocation of support resources, such as law enforcement agents and medical professionals. Instead of an unexpected incident, the system may be operational over a scheduled event, such as a game at a sports complex and a floor waxing job at a shopping mall.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["102","108","108","104","106"]},"The system may be implemented by one or more computing devices, including a computer server and a cloud computing environment. In some embodiments, it provides graphical user interfaces that can be accessed by remote devices, such as a tablet and a cellular phone. In some embodiments, it offers an application programming interface which enables the system to be accessed at an application level. In some embodiments, the system accepts and transmits text messages, voicemail messages and email messages for communication between the commanders and various parties over computer networks, telephone networks, mobile networks, or other networks.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","204","208","206","210","212"]},"The data management module  accepts data inputted by users of the system or received from third-party sources and stores them in one or more databases. In some embodiments, the data management module  accepts data regarding a site. One example of such data is a floor plan showing the layout of a site, which may indicate the locations of landmarks, the features of individual rooms, and the like. The data management module  allows such data to be represented in a hierarchical manner. For example, the top level may correspond to the entire site, the second level may correspond to individual buildings at the site, the third level may correspond to individual rooms within each building, and so on.","In some embodiments, the data management module  accepts data regarding the likely participants. For example, when the site is a school, the likely participants include all employees of the school, such as teachers and administrators, and all students who attend the school. Such data may contain a variety of types of information, including information identifying a person, such as the person's name, gender, age, title, and phone number, and information indicating the person's special needs, such as using a wheelchair or having asthma.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["304","306","302"]},"In some embodiments, the data management module  accepts data regarding the support agencies. Such data may include information identifying an agency or trusted party, such as a police department, or security service, potentially including its location and contact mechanisms, and information specifying capabilities of the agency or the trust, such as information regarding the officers and the weapons available. The data management module  also accepts data regarding emergency contacts of the likely participants, including information identifying an emergency contact's name, phone numbers, or email addresses.","The communication module  manages all communication with the involved parties. In some embodiments, the communication module  specifies system accessibility information. For example, it may make one phone number or email address available for all incoming messages, or it may make one unique phone number or email address available to each site. Furthermore, the communication module  accepts incoming telephone calls and voicemail, email, text and other messages from the involved parties and delivers outgoing ones to the involved parties. It may present all the conversations graphically in real time to the commanders.","In some embodiments, the communication module  defines communication protocols for specific communications with the involved parties. A communication protocol may comprise a series of questions to be answered by the involved parties. Instead of a series of questions, a protocol may also specify merely one or more keywords.","One communication protocol is for a check-in procedure to be followed by appropriate parties, which produces an estimated list of involved parties in each unit of a site. As one example, when the appropriate parties are representatives of the likely participants, the questions may involve asking a representative in a unit of a site, such as a teacher in a classroom, to report on other members in that unit, such as the students and first responders in that classroom. As another example, when the appropriate parties are all the likely participants, a keyword may be \u201cpresent\u201d, and every likely participant who sends a message containing that keyword would be considered checked in. Another communication protocol is for a triage or status report procedure, which produces a summary of the situation in each unit of a site. As one example, the questions may involve the locations of the involved parties within a unit, the types of injuries sustained by the involved parties in the unit, the sights and sounds outside the unit that could be observed by the involved parties in the unit, and the like. As another example, the keywords may be \u201cstatus\u201d and one of a set of status indicators, such as \u201csecured\u201d, hazard\u201d, and \u201ccritical\u201d for an incident, \u201cidle\u201d, \u201coperating\u201d, \u201con-break\u201d for a project or event, and \u201cnormal\u201d, \u201ccounterfeit\u201d, \u201cstealing\u201d, \u201cexcessive returns\u201d for general monitoring.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["401","402","403","404"]},"The site control module  manages a process of controlling a site. In some embodiments, the site control module  allows a user to set up trigger conditions that would lead to the initiation of the control process, especially a lockdown of the site in a crisis or any other adverse scenarios. One type of trigger condition is the receipt of a message from a relevant party, such as a likely participant or a law enforcement agent, containing a set of keywords. The site control module  may define default measures or allow a user to specify such measures corresponding to one or more trigger conditions. One type of measure is the initiation of a site lockdown by sending a message to appropriate parties, whether they are representatives of the likely participants or all the likely participants. Another type of measure is the notification of relevant parties, such as the support agencies and emergency contacts of the likely participants. For non-emergency situations, such as day-to-day monitoring or a scheduled event, no triggering might be defined, and the site control module  might simply initiate the control process at the instruction of a commander, for example.","As one example, when the communication module  makes a single phone number available, a trigger condition may specify the name of a school and the word \u201cshooting\u201d, and a corresponding measure may be the initiation of a lockdown of the school. As a result, upon receiving from a teacher in a classroom of a school a message including the name of the school and the word \u201cshooting\u201d, the site control module  would initiate a lockdown of the school by sending a message which states \u201cLockdown initiated!\u201d to appropriate parties. As another example, when the communication module  makes multiple phone numbers available, one for each site, a trigger condition may specify a single word \u201crobbery.\u201d As a result, when an owner of a shop in a mall sends a message to the phone number assigned to the mall which contains the word \u201crobbery\u201d, the site control module  would similarly initiate a lockdown of the mall.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["502","508","510","508","510","504","506","512"]},"In some embodiments, the site control module  carries out a check-in procedure according to a communication protocol defined by the communication module . As one example, it may reach out to every likely participant to carry out the check-in procedure right after it initiates a site lockdown. As another example, after announcing a site lockdown, it may carry out the check-in procedure with an involved party in response to receiving a message from the involved party directly or through a sensor installed onsite which may detect the presence of an involved party. In some embodiments, the site control module  concludes a process of controlling a site by sending a message to appropriate parties. For example, the message may be as simple as \u201cLockdown terminated!\u201d or \u201cOperation complete!.\u201d","The site monitoring module  keeps track of the status of a site. In some embodiments, it determines the status of each unit of the site using various approaches. In one approach, the site monitoring module  identifies a status from an incoming message that satisfies a communication protocol for a status report procedure. In another approach, for a set of status indicators, the site monitoring module  associates each of them with an additional set of keywords. It then analyzes the incoming messages and assigns a status to a unit based on the presence of the keywords. For example, for the status indicator \u201chazard\u201d, the associated keywords may include \u201chostile\u201d and \u201cbroken\u201d, and for the status indicator \u201ccritical\u201d, the associated keywords may include \u201cbleeding\u201d and \u201cshot.\u201d Therefore, when the words \u201cbleeding\u201d and \u201cshot\u201d appear frequently in the messages received from the involved parties in a particular unit of a site, the site monitoring module  may assign the status \u201ccritical\u201d to that unit. In addition to a status indicator, the site monitoring module  may record descriptions of specific issues that have arisen in a unit. For example, the presence of each of the keywords associated with a status indicator may lead to a description of a specific issue. When a specific issue concerns a specific involved party, the site monitoring module  may update the status of that involved party, which may then be displayed by the data management module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["602","604","608","610","606","608"]},"In some embodiments, the site monitoring module  represents the status of the site graphically. When the floor plan of the site is available, the site monitoring module  presents an annotated, interactive version of the floor plan. For example, each unit of the site may be shown in a color that corresponds to the status indicator of the unit, and a user's interaction with the graphical representation of the unit may lead to the display of further information about the unit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["702","704","706","712","714","716","710","708"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"],"b":["802","804","806"]},"The external support module  facilitates the coordination of support efforts from one or more support agencies, such as law enforcement agencies, regarding an incident at a site. For example, it may receive telephone calls or messages from several police departments near a site regarding 911 calls made by the involved parties. The external support module  may set up a written record for each piece of information received. Furthermore, it may share the received information among the support agencies who have shared such information, with the involved parties, and with other relevant parties. It may also provide information available within the system  to the support agencies, such as data regarding the involved parties. In this manner, the external support module  serves as a point of contact for all incident-handling efforts, ensuring that no effort is duplicated and all the efforts are integrated to achieve the maximum effect.","The reporting module manages data that may be used for audit purposes. In some embodiments, the reporting module  manages a log to account for all the communications conducted during the process of controlling a site. For example, the log may include a time-stamped entry for every incoming and outgoing message and telephone call. It may also include descriptions of important checkpoints, such as when the status of a room changes.  is a user interface diagram illustrating an example user interface for managing a log. In this example, each log entry shows a time stamp in , a type of activity being logged if available, such as a check-in or a room status change, and a description, such as a summary of the activity or entire contents of an incoming or outgoing message.","In some embodiments, the reporting module  replays the log in a graphic or animated manner with respect to a timeline for the control process using the time stamps. For example, it may display the communications differently based on the source or destination of a communication, the type of a communication, the keywords mentioned in a communication, the length of the communication, and so on.","In some embodiments, the reporting module  extracts various types of information from the log. One type of information is an accountability list, showing a list of involved parties who have gone through the check-in procedure, for example.  is a user interface diagram illustrating an example user interface for managing an accountability list. The user interface shows an entry for each involved party. In this example, each entry shows the name of the involved party in , the triage status of the involved party in , such as safe, bleeding or unconscious, and the location of the involved party in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1102","1104","204","1106","1114","1108","208","1110","210","1112","208","210","206","208","210","206","1116","204","1118","212"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1202","206","1204","1206","1208"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1302","210","1304","210","1306","210","1308","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1405","1410","1425","1420","1430","1415","1415","1415"]},"The memory  and storage devices  are computer-readable storage media that may store instructions that implement at least portions of the various embodiments. In addition, the data structures and message structures may be stored or transmitted via a data transmission medium, such as a signal on a communications link. Various communications links may be used, such as the Internet, a local area network, a wide area network, or a point-to-point dial-up connection. Thus, computer readable media can include computer-readable storage media (e.g., \u201cnon transitory\u201d media) and computer-readable transmission media.","The instructions stored in memory  can be implemented as software and\/or firmware to program the processor(s)  to carry out actions described above. In some embodiments, such software or firmware may be initially provided to the processing system  by downloading it from a remote system through the computing system  (e.g., via network adapter ).","The various embodiments introduced herein can be implemented by, for example, programmable circuitry (e.g., one or more microprocessors) programmed with software and\/or firmware, or entirely in special-purpose hardwired (non-programmable) circuitry, or in a combination of such forms. Special-purpose hardwired circuitry may be in the form of, for example, one or more ASICs, PLDs, FPGAs, etc.","Remarks","The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However, in certain instances, well-known details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. Further, various modifications may be made without deviating from the scope of the embodiments. Accordingly, the embodiments are not limited except as by the appended claims.","Reference in this specification to \u201cone embodiment\u201d or \u201can embodiment\u201d means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase \u201cin one embodiment\u201d in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover, various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly, various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not for other embodiments.","The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art, within the context of the disclosure, and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below, or elsewhere in the specification, to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience, certain terms may be highlighted, for example using italics and\/or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term; the scope and meaning of a term is the same, in the same context, whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way. One will recognize that \u201cmemory\u201d is one form of a \u201cstorage\u201d and that the terms may on occasion be used interchangeably.","Consequently, alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein, nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any term discussed herein is illustrative only, and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise, the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.","Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure, examples of instruments, apparatus, methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader, which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict, the present document, including definitions will control."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BASIC DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The techniques introduced here may be better understood by referring to the following Detailed Description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals indicate identical or functionally similar elements:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
