---
title: Absorbent polymer reinforcing fiber
abstract: A reinforced absorbent polymer is provided for improving mechanical properties without degrading their absorption performance. The reinforced polymer includes an absorbent polymer; and at least one fiber for reinforcement disposed in the polymer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09327266&OS=09327266&RS=09327266
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09327266
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140715
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy, and thus, the invention herein may be manufactured, used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The present invention generally relates to absorbent polymers. In particular, the invention relates more specifically to reinforcing fiber of absorbent polymers to increase the shear and tensile mechanical strength of absorbent polymers without significantly decreasing their absorption capacity.","Absorbent polymers are known in various technologies. For example, absorbent polymers can be used to absorb hydrocarbons from an aqueous medium, such as the absorption of oil from water. In some configurations, conventional absorbent polymers are contained within a permeable material. For example, conventional spill \u201csocks\u201d and booms can hold an absorbent polymer within a fabric to enable the absorbent polymer to be applied directly to the site of interest. Moreover, conventional absorbent booms can float on a water surface to help contain a spill from spreading beyond the boom. This application, however, requires the absorbent polymer to be contained within a permeable membrane or fabric.","In other configurations, conventional absorbent polymers are applied as a powder to a water surface. The absorbent may absorb the hydrocarbon and even gel together. This process, however, requires the removal of the resulting gel formed from the swelled absorbent polymer. The resulting gel can lack adequate shear and tensile mechanical strength and may be difficult to remove.","Consequently, a need exists for an absorbent polymer that has an enhanced shear and tensile mechanical strength to facilitate recovery of the polymer after absorbing the desired liquid. Conventional absorbent polymers yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular, various exemplary embodiments provide a reinforced absorbent polymer includes an absorbent polymer; and a reinforcing fiber disposed in the polymer, such that the reinforcing fiber facilitates the absorbent polymer to expand while absorbing the liquid.","In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized, and logical, mechanical, and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.","This disclosure relates generally to fiber reinforced absorbent polymers and techniques for improving the mechanical properties of absorbent polymers without compromising their absorption performance. This process can be achieved through the incorporation of fibers of a material with a high mechanical strength relative to that of the absorbent polymer. There are numerous possible configurations for reinforcing fiber, but the performance can be optimized upon satisfaction of the following criteria:\n\n","Exemplary arrangements of an absorbent polymer that satisfy the above described criteria are described by the following configurations as specific examples not intended to limit the scope of the invention. As used herein, the term \u201cfiber\u201d or \u201creinforcing fiber\u201d describes any fiber material suitable for operation in an absorbent polymer. Examples of these fibers include nylon, rayon, Kevlar, polyethylene, polypropylene, glass, metal and the like. As used herein, the term \u201cabsorbent polymer\u201d refers to a polymer that can absorb a target liquid. Exemplary absorbent polymers include polyacrylic acid, polyamide, and similar materials.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","120","110","120","110","120","100","110","130"]},"Prior to absorption, the fibers  have a length sufficient to accommodate the expansion of the polymer . The fibers  can either extend beyond the polymer  as shown in view  or largely codirectional fiber segments of appropriate length can be offset within the material to provide fiber reinforcement throughout the fiber alignment direction.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["200","210","220","210","220","210","210","230"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 2B and 2C","b":["240","250","230","220","240","250","210","210"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","310","320","310","310","330","320","310","320","310","310","330"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 3B and 3C","b":["340","350","330","320","310","310","310"]},"While views  and  show the rod shape of the polymer  being cylindrical, other geometric and non-geometric rod shapes may be contemplated within the scope of the present invention. For example, the polymer  could be formed as a rectangular or triangular shaped rod. The fiber reinforced absorbent polymers may be used for various purposes. For example, the fiber reinforced absorbent polymers may be used for chemical spills, oil spills and the like.","The fibers are embedded into the polymer by their disposition in the pre-polymer mixture (monomers, solvent, constituent polymers, etc.) and subsequently performing the polymerization. To ensure slippage at the interface between the fibers and the polymer, the fiber surface should be as smooth as possible, insoluble in the pre-polymer mixture, and chemically inert under the polymerization conditions.","The fibers can be of arbitrary length provided they are largely codirectional, enable the desired level of expansion, and permit slippage at the fiber-to-polymer interface within the desired time frame. Typical fiber lengths range from millimeters to meters. The fiber diameter can also be adjusted to attain the desired mechanical properties, with a typical range of 10 nm to 1 mm. The reinforced polymer can be of arbitrary size and form factor. In addition, the reinforcement can be implemented in either a batch or continuous process.","The reinforcing fiber and absorbent polymer form an interface having appropriate surface tension sliding past each other during volume expansion of said absorbent polymer caused by absorption of the liquid. For liquids, surface tension (force-per-unit-length) corresponds also to surface energy density (effectively energy-per-unit-area or flux). Water, for example, has a value of 0.072 newtons-per-meter or joules-per-square-meter. Interfaces with low energy density possess more complete wetting (spreading of the liquid along a surface) and shallower contact angles than interfaces with high energy density. For purposes of this disclosure, the surface tension should be sufficiently low to enable the fiber to slip past the polymer while avoiding being pulled through, effectively being ejected and thereby unable to provide structural reinforcement to the polymer.","While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein, many modifications, substitutions, changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and various other features and aspects of various exemplary embodiments will be readily understood with reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which like or similar numbers are used throughout, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A, 2B and 2C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A, 3B and 3C"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
