---
title: Calculating trust score on web based platform
abstract: A method for calculating trust level of a user on social networking sites, comprising: consolidating information related to users operatively associated with at least a web based social platform; assigning weight to each of the consolidated information; computing aggregated score for at least an information; computing weighted average of the aggregated scores of the information; and calculating trust score based on the weighted average score. It further comprises assigning a trust level to the users based upon the trust. The method enables a user to create web of trust for social contacts or friends on the web based social platform wherein the web of trust comprises of most trusted friends, average trusted friends and least trusted friends.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613341&OS=09613341&RS=09613341
owner: Infosys Limited
number: 09613341
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140131
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Example 1","Example 2"],"p":["The field relates to calculating trust score in general and a system and method to calculate trust score of users operatively associated with a web based platform in particular.","All social media platforms allow users to create a group of friends and community with whom the users shares the personal and social information including social activities like posts, recommendations, personal interests etc. Current social media platforms provide a loose model for making an online social contacts including friends, online companions, chat buddies etc. The existing model is mostly user driven. Most social platforms encourage social user to maximize his\/her social contacts in order to increase user activity or time on the site thereby increasing their revenue. Most of the current social platform heavily provides friend suggestions to increase social user's circle of friends. Social users perform various activities with online social contacts including sharing personal information, chat and other community activities. Social media platform provides numerous ways to share the data like profile information, comments etc. with their online social contacts. All social media platforms allow the user to create a group of friends and community with whom the user shares the personal and social information including social activities like posts, recommendations, personal interests etc.","Although existing social media sites allow finer control for sharing information, most of the current models require user intervention for leveraging that fine-grain custom control by adding extra filters; often it is a cumbersome process to selectively filter sensitive information. User more often than not ignores safety concerns due to the extra steps required for achieving fine grain controls leaving his\/her data vulnerable to the outside world. In most cases, user falls back on his\/her past experience and interactions with a person to qualify him\/her as a \u201cfriend\u201d or \u2018social contact\u2019 and establish the \u201ctrust\u201d to a friend. A social user is unaware of all the activities of his\/her social contacts\/friends across various networking social sites. It often results in incorrect\/incomplete\/false perception about the friend\/social contact. Limited information about friend's activities poses challenges in friend profiling. Friendship is often a personal notion in the social world.","There are no tools or processes to objectively decide or suggest a trust worthiness of a friend. This lack of objective trust verification would potentially lead to social user's data exploitation and security issues like identity theft, cyber bully, Cyber stalking, cyber defamation etc.","Accordingly there is need of system and method which can quantify a user's trust by consolidating a user's information and related activities on social networking sites and assigning a trust score to the user and to do fine tuning of social contacts in the social networking sites.","It is an object of the invention to provide a system and method for calculating trust score of users operatively associated with web based platforms.","It is another object of the invention is to consolidate plurality of information related to the user available on the web based platforms.","Yet another object of the invention is to associate a weightage to each of the plurality of the related information of the user.","Still another object of the invention is to compute aggregate weighted score for each of the plurality of the related information of the user.","Yet another object of the invention is to create a web of trust for plurality of connected users operatively associated with the web based platform by assigning a rank to the connected users on basis of trust score.","Still further another objective of the invention is to enhance online security on web based platform.","While systems and methods are described herein by way of example and embodiments, those skilled in the art recognize that systems and methods for calculating trust scores of users operatively associated with a web platform are not limited to the embodiments or the diagrams described. It should be understood that \u2018web based platform\u2019, \u2018web based environment\u2019, \u2018social networking site\u2019, \u2018social web based platform\u2019, \u2018networking sites\u2019 and \u2018social sites\u2019 may be used interchangeably. As used herein, \u2018social user\u2019, \u2018social web users\u2019, \u2018online social content community\u2019 and \u2018social contacts\u2019 are the users of social networking sites unless indicated otherwise. \u2018Trust ranking engine\u2019, \u2018Trust Ranking Software\u2019, \u2018Trust Ranking System\u2019 and \u2018Trust Ranking Platform\u2019 are used interchangeably. It should be understood that drawings and descriptions are not intended to be limiting to the particular form disclosed. The word \u201cmay\u201d is used in a permissive sense (i.e., meaning having the potential to) rather than the mandatory sense (i.e., meaning must). Similarly, the words \u201cinclude\u201d, \u201cincluding\u201d, and \u201cincludes\u201d mean including, but not limited to.","Disclosed embodiments provide computer-implemented method, system and computer readable media for calculating trust score of users operatively associated on a web based platform.","According to an embodiment trust ranking system addresses the problems in prior art by quantifying a user's trust by evaluating the user's interactions and activities on the web based platform to which the user is operatively associated with. The trust ranking or trust score of the user may be considered by network of the users to which the user is connected to on a web based platform to share information and online interactions more reliably and scientifically.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["110","120","130","140","110","360","120","130","140"]},"According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention, following formula is employed in calculating the weighted average score of aggregated weighted score of the information for arriving at overall trust score. If the social user has obtained aggregated weighted activity score of \u2018a\u2019, aggregated weighted responsiveness score of \u2018r\u2019, aggregated weighted postings score of \u2018p\u2019 and aggregated weighted attitude score of \u2018t\u2019. The trust ranking algorithm would assign weights for each of these individual scores to align the overall score towards calculating social user's online trust. A sample weight assignment is given below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Category","Weight"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Aggregated Weighted Activity Score","0.2"]},{"entry":[{},"Aggregated Weighted Responsiveness Score","0.3"]},{"entry":[{},"Aggregated Weighted Postings Score","0.1"]},{"entry":[{},"Aggregated Weighted Attitude score","0.4"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Weighted average Score (Overall Trust Score) = (0.2 * a + 0.3 * r + 0.1 * p + 0.4 * t)\/(a + r + p + t)"]}]}}}},"br":{}},"According to an embodiment of the invention the weight assigned to each of the plurality of the information is dynamic in nature. According to an exemplary embodiment trust ranking system uses text analytics to analyze data or content of the information it has aggregated to understand the \u2018confidence level\u2019 or \u2018data threshold\u2019 or minimum amount of data required to assign a weight for calculating score of the information. If the data or content is sufficient then the trust ranking system places \u2018high confidence\u2019 for that information and the information is eligible for weight assignment. For example if the engine has aggregated enough data to calculate the weighted attitude score then the system places \u2018high confidence\u2019 in the attitude score. Trust ranking system eventually assigns the highest weightage for the attitude score as the attitude is positively correlated to the users trust score. In an alternate example if the system gets less content or data for computing attitude score or alternatively it does not find any data to calculate the attitude score then the system places \u2018low confidence\u2019 in the attitude score. As a result the system does not assign high weightage for attitude score for the calculation of overall trust score. The system then falls back to the best alternative to the attitude score. For example if the system falls back to responsiveness score in this embodiment then the responsiveness score gets the highest weightage. This is an exemplary embodiment and applies to all the categories of the information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["201","205"]},"According to an embodiment of the invention aggregated weighted activity score for the users are computed, step . Further the activities include but are not limited to quantifiable activities. All the quantifiable activities are collected from the social networking sites to which the users are associated with. The social networking site includes but is not limited to online forums and online communities. According to an embodiment the social sites includes but is not limited to social networking sites comprising Facebook, Google plus, LinkedIn, Twitter, Yahoo Group; special interest groups in which user is participating, public and private discussion forums, technical forums, public and private blogs, communities, discussion groups; public and private media sharing sites, public and private micro blogging sites, public and private bookmarking sites, public and private information collaboration sites, social news sites, social Q & A sites, review and recommendation sites. Further the list of the social networking sites will be dynamically expanded by the trust ranker based on social sites popularity and usability.","According to an embodiment of the invention quantifiable structured activities are aggregated for calculating the activity score. Further a quantifiable social activity is the one which provides a straight-forward numerical value like number of member groups, number of posts and alike. Trust ranking engine's quantifiable activities include but is not limited to Number of appreciations or recommendations given by peers to the user in social sites, number of friends in various sites, positive ratings given by friend's peers participating in community activities, number of activities of intellectual communities, number of participations in online social welfare or charity activities, number of active moderations of the online community or group, number of promotions for an online noble causes and number of useful online events organized. Further quantifiable structured activities are dynamically expanded by trust ranking engine. The quantifiable structured activities from all web based platform is aggregated for the user and weight is assigned by the trust ranking engine to each of the plurality of the activities. Further the assignment of weight varies and weight is assigned based upon the nature of activities. According to an exemplary embodiment an activity of promoting a fund raising event or a social cause is given more weightage than an activity that promotes a general get-together event. The weights are purely assigned for calculating overall trust score. Based upon the weight assigned to each of the plurality of activities overall weighted activities score for the friend is calculated. Further the quantifiable activities are factored to arrive at a cumulated activity score for the user. For instance user activities such as promoting an online charity event, creating\/moderating an online self-help group etc. will be factored in to arrive at aggregated weighted activity score.","According to an exemplary embodiment, calculation for aggregated weighted activity score is given below with sample weights and sample activity list. Considering that current set of structured activities is as mentioned in the table below with their weights:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Quantifiable Structured Activity","Weight"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"140pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Number of appreciations\/recommendations","0.1"]},{"entry":[{},"given by peers to the user in social sites"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of social groups user is subscribed to","0.05"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of social groups\/communities user is","0.05"]},{"entry":[{},"moderating"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of intellectual communities user is","0.1"]},{"entry":[{},"subscribed to"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of online social welfare\/charity","0.3"]},{"entry":[{},"activities user is participating"]},{"entry":[{},"Number of promotions for a noble\/social","0.4"]},{"entry":[{},"cause user has organized"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Aggregated weighted activity score = (0.1 * number of recommendations + 0.05 * number of member groups + 0.05 * number of moderating groups + 0.1 * number of member intellectual communities + 0.3 * number of online social welfare activities + 0.4 * number of online promotions for noble cause)\/(number of recommendations + number of member groups + number of moderating groups + number of member intellectual communities + number of online social welfare activities + number of online promotions for noble cause)."]}]}}]}},"br":{}},"According to an embodiment of the invention responsiveness of users toward the activities on web based platform is aggregated. Further aggregated weighted responsiveness score is computed, step . According to an embodiment responsiveness is a factor of response time and accuracy or likings of the provided response. The responsiveness is calculated towards the quantifiable activities including but is not limiting to response in technical or health forums, responses given in Q & A forums, responses in terms of providing solutions in specialty community groups. Responsiveness is calculated for each of the pluralities of quantifiable activity. Further weights are assigned for each of plurality of the responses. Aggregated weighted responsiveness score is calculated based up the weights assigned to each of the pluralities of the responses. The assignments of weights vary for each of the plurality of responses based upon the theme. Accordingly more sensitive themes are weighted more than a general topic. For example an accurate response to health question is weighted more than a response to a movie topic. Furthermore the responses and assignment of weights to each of the plurality of the responses will be dynamically expanded based on change in social media landscape and its activities on web based platform. Further prompt and accurate responsiveness is a critical factor in trust.","According to an embodiment of the invention aggregated weighted post rating score of the users is computed, step . Each of the plurality of ratings on posts by the user is aggregated and weighted average is calculated for the post ratings. Post comprises the contents at least posted, referred, liked, shared or reviewed by the user. Post rating score of the user is calculated on the factors including but not limiting to likings obtained by the user's post, ratings obtained by the users post, number of shares of the post. Weight is assigned to each of the plurality of post ratings. The overall weighted score for plurality of post ratings is calculated. Further assignment of weights to each of the post ratings can vary based upon theme of the post and the ratings received by the post.","According to an embodiment aggregated weighted attitude score of the user is computed, step . Text based attitude analysis is done by text analyzer  of trust ranking engine. Trust ranking engine compiles list of pluralities of contents and postings by the user on web based platforms. Text analyzer  comprises of sentiment analyzer components and positivity analyzer component . According to an embodiment sentiment analyzer component  uses text analytics and natural language processing techniques to identify attributes of the user comprising of sentiments, emptions, polarity, objectivity, subjectivity and mood present in the text. A Weight to each of the attribute is assigned. Further the weight is assigned based on the positivity or negativity of the sentiments. Further the sentiment analyzer computes the sentiment score for the users based upon the attributes analyzed. According to an embodiment the positivity analyzer component  uses word based text analytics technique to identify attributes including but not limiting to positive or negative expressions, feelings and moods in the content posted or reviewed by the user. Further weight is assigned to each of the attributes. Furthermore positive expressions may be weighted more than the negative expressions. According to an embodiment trust ranking algorithm calculates overall attitude score based on sentiment score and positivity score. Word based text analysis is done to find out the subjectivity, polarity, objectivity and then the sentiment expressed in the content including positive opinion indicators, negative thought indicators, sad\/dullness indicators, angry\/frustration indicators. All the indicators are factored-in to arrive at the overall attitude score.","According to an embodiment of the invention overall trust score for the user is calculated, step . Trust ranking algorithm calculates overall trust score for the user by computing weighted average of the weighted activity score, weighted responsiveness score, weighted ratings score and weighted attitude score. According to an embodiment the trust score is used to rank the users on basis of scores, step . Further a trust rank or level is assigned to each of the friends of the user based upon the trust score. Further the method enables a user to create a web of friends based upon the trust score obtained by each of the friends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","300","360","310","320","330","340","350","360","342","344","310","330","330","340","340","342","344","342","344","340","342","344","350","350","350","350","360"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","410","420","430","410","410","410","420","430","430"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","520","521","522","523","524","525","526","510","510","520","550","520"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["520","610","610","523","630","522","521","640","521","521","521","524","650","524","524","660","526","525","670","525"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","710","715","720","725","700"]},"In an alternative embodiment of the invention activity score computed by trust score of the trust ranking engine or trust ranking algorithm is used to identify the commonality of interests or activities between the user and its social contacts or friends. Further the user can be alerted by red flags raised by the Trust Ranking Engine to get know at least a potentially serious trends of its social contact. Further the social contact includes but is not limited to online companion and chat buddies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["800","800"]},"With reference to , the computing environment  includes at least one processing unit  and memory . The processing unit  executes computer-executable instructions and may be a real or a virtual processor. In a multi-processing system, multiple processing units execute computer-executable instructions to increase processing power. The memory  may be volatile memory (e.g., registers, cache, RAM), non-volatile memory (e.g., ROM, EEPROM, flash memory, etc.), or some combination of the two. In some embodiments, the memory  stores software  implementing described techniques. Further the memory  across multiple servers is clustered to replicate cache data.","A computing environment may have additional features. For example, the computing environment  includes storage , one or more input devices , one or more output devices , and one or more communication connections . An interconnection mechanism (not shown) such as a bus, controller, or network interconnects the components of the computing environment . Typically, operating system software (not shown) provides an operating environment for other software executing in the computing environment , and coordinates activities of the components of the computing environment . An operating system controls all the hardware components.","The storage  may be removable or non-removable, and includes hard disks, magnetic disks, magnetic tapes or cassettes, CD-ROMs, CD-RWs, DVDs, flash memory card, modem, router or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed within the computing environment . In some embodiments, the storage  stores instructions for the software. Further it is designed to handle large amount of program data, cache offload and to run any complimentary or supporting software for the main software for implementing the described invention.","The input device(s)  may be a touch input device such as a keyboard, mouse, pen, trackball, touch screen, or game controller, a voice input device, a scanning device, a digital camera, or another device that provides input to the computing environment . The output device(s)  may be a display, printer, speaker, or another device that provides output from the computing environment .","The communication connection(s)  enable communication over a communication medium to another computing entity. The communication medium conveys information such as computer-executable instructions, audio or video information, or other data in a modulated data signal. A modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media include wired or wireless techniques implemented with an electrical, optical, RF, infrared, acoustic, or other carrier.","Implementations can be described in the general context of computer-readable media. Computer-readable media are any available media that can be accessed within a computing environment. By way of example, and not limitation, within the computing environment , computer-readable media include memory , storage , communication media, and combinations of any of the above.","Having described and illustrated the principles of our invention with reference to described embodiments, it will be recognized that the described embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. It should be understood that the programs, processes, or methods described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computing environment, unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computing environments may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein. Elements of the described embodiments shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa.","As will be appreciated by those ordinary skilled in the art, the foregoing example, demonstrations, and method steps may be implemented by suitable code on a processor base system, such as general purpose or special purpose computer. It should also be noted that different implementations of the present technique may perform some or all the steps described herein in different orders or substantially concurrently, that is, in parallel. Furthermore, the functions may be implemented in a variety of programming languages. Such code, as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skilled in the art, may be stored or adapted for storage in one or more tangible machine readable media, such as on memory chips, local or remote hard disks, optical disks or other media, which may be accessed by a processor based system to execute the stored code. Note that the tangible media may comprise paper or another suitable medium upon which the instructions are printed. For instance, the instructions may be electronically captured via optical scanning of the paper or other medium, then compiled, interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary, and then stored in a computer memory.","The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of the requirement for a obtaining a patent. The present description is the best presently-contemplated method for carrying out the present invention. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles of the present invention may be applied to other embodiments, and some features of the present invention may be used without the corresponding use of other features. Accordingly, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiment shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
