---
title: Identity management and authentication system for resource access
abstract: A system that authorizes access to a resource by a client validates the client and generates a Security Assertion Markup Language (“SAML”) assertion for the valid client. The system then sends an access request with the SAML assertion to a OAuth server. In response, the OAuth server returns an access token for the resource to the client.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467457&OS=09467457&RS=09467457
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09467457
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150113
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD","BACKGROUND INFORMATION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["One embodiment is directed generally to a computer system, and in particular to a computer system that provides identity management and authentication in response to a request for resources.","An identity management system is an information system, or a set of technologies, that can be used for enterprise or cross-network identity management. Identity management describes the management of individual identities, and the authentication, authorization, roles, and privileges within or across system and enterprise boundaries with the goal of increasing security and productivity while decreasing cost, downtime, and repetitive tasks. One aspect of identity management is \u201csingle sign-on\u201d (\u201cSSO\u201d). One standard that is particularly useful in the field of identity management is \u201cOAuth.\u201d","OAuth is an open standard for authorization. An indirect effect of authorization is authentication. OAuth allows users to share their private resources (e.g., photos, videos, contact lists, etc.) stored on one site with another site without having to hand out their credentials, typically supplying username and password tokens instead. Each token grants access to a specific site for specific resources and for a defined duration. This allows a user to grant to a third party site access to their information stored with another service provider, without sharing their access permissions or the full extent of their data. For example, a token might grant access to a video editing site for videos from a specific album for the next two hours.","One embodiment is a system that authorizes access to a resource by a client. The system validates the client and generates a Security Assertion Markup Language (\u201cSAML\u201d) assertion for the valid client. The system then sends an access request with the SAML assertion to a OAuth server. In response, the OAuth server returns an access token for the resource to the client.","One embodiment is a OAuth based single sign-on (\u201cSSO\u201d) authentication system that uses Security Assertion Markup Language (\u201cSAML\u201d) as assertion grants. Therefore, the integration client, which is used to integrate different identity management platforms, merely needs to provide valid SAML assertions. Users from different identity management platforms can then access the resources protected by a OAuth Server, and the SSO function is implemented.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","10"]},"System  includes a bus  or other communication mechanism for communicating information, and a processor  coupled to bus  for processing information. Processor  may be any type of general or specific purpose processor. System  further includes a memory  for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Memory  can be comprised of any combination of random access memory (\u201cRAM\u201d), read only memory (\u201cROM\u201d), static storage such as a magnetic or optical disk, or any other type of computer readable media. System  further includes a communication device , such as a network interface card, to provide access to a network. Therefore, a user may interface with system  directly, or remotely through a network, or any other method.","Computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by processor  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media, and communication media. Communication media may include computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism, and includes any information delivery media.","Processor  is further coupled via bus  to a display , such as a Liquid Crystal Display (\u201cLCD\u201d). A keyboard  and a cursor control device , such as a computer mouse, are further coupled to bus  to enable a user to interface with system .","In one embodiment, memory  stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system  that provides operating system functionality for system . The modules further include an authentication module  for providing authentication for resource access, and all other functionality disclosed herein. System  can be part of a larger system, such as a webserver and any other associated functionality. Therefore, system  can include one or more additional functional modules  to include the additional functionality. In one embodiment, the additional functionality is an identity management platform such as \u201cOracle Identity Management\u201d from Oracle Corp., or \u201cOracle Communications Services Gatekeeper\u201d (\u201cOCSG\u201d) from Oracle Corp. A database  is coupled to bus  to provide centralized storage for modules  and  and store profiles, identities, protected resources, etc.","Many customers typically desire to integrate their existing identity management platform to a new deployed system and use a OAuth server to resolve the single sign-on issue. A known solution is to build a private interface between the identity management platform and the OAuth server. However, this requires modifications to both the identity management platform and the OAuth server, and may lead to an OAuth server that can support only a few specific identity management platforms.","In contrast, embodiments provide a \u201cgeneric\u201d mechanism for transporting assertions during interactions with a token endpoint, and rules for the content and processing of SAML assertions so that an unmodified OAuth server can be used. Embodiments further provide an enhanced security profile by using derived values, such as signatures or keyed-hash message authentication codes (\u201cHMACs\u201d), as well as facilitating the use of \u201cOAuth 2.0\u201d in client-server integration scenarios where the end-user may not be present.","As discussed, OAuth is an open standard to authorization. OAuth provides client applications with a \u201csecure delegated access\u201d to server resources on behalf of a resource owner. It specifies a process for resource owners to authorize third-party access to their server resources without sharing their credentials. Designed specifically to work with Hypertext Transfer Protocol (\u201cHTTP\u201d), OAuth essentially allows access tokens to be issued to third-party clients by an authorization server, with the approval of the resource owner, or end-user. The client then uses the access token to access the protected resources hosted by the resource server.","OAuth 2.0 is the next generation of the OAuth protocol and is not backwards compatible with the original OAuth (i.e., OAuth 1.0). OAuth 2.0 focuses on client developer simplicity while providing specific authorization flows for web applications, desktop applications, mobile phones, and living room devices. The specification and requirements for the OAuth 2.0 framework are disclosed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (\u201cIETF\u201d), in for example, Request for Comments: 6749, and are hereby incorporated by reference.","Embodiments use Security Assertion Markup Language (\u201cSAML\u201d) assertions as authorization grants with OAuth 2.0. SAML is an Extensible Markup Language (\u201cXML\u201d)-based, open-standard data format for exchanging authentication and authorization data between parties, in particular, between an identity provider and a service provider. The SAML version 2.0 specification (the \u201cSAML specification\u201d) was approved as an OASIS Standard in March 2005, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.","The SAML specification defines three roles: the principal (typically a user), the identity provider (\u201cIdP\u201d), and the service provider (\u201cSP\u201d). In the use case addressed by SAML, the principal requests a service from the service provider. The service provider requests and obtains an identity assertion from the identity provider. On the basis of this assertion, the service provider can make an access control decision. An access control decision is a decision on whether to perform some service for the connected principal.","Before delivering the identity assertion to the SP, the IdP may request some information from the principal\u2014such as a user name and password\u2014in order to authenticate the principal. SAML specifies the assertions between the three parties, in particular, the messages that assert identity that are passed from the IdP to the SP. In SAML, one identity provider may provide SAML assertions to many service providers. Similarly, one SP may rely on and trust assertions from many independent IdPs.","SAML does not specify the method of authentication at the identity provider. It may use a username and password, or other form of authentication, including multi-factor authentication. A directory service, such as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (\u201cLDAP\u201d), Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (\u201cRADIUS\u201d) and Active Directory, which allows users to log in with a user name and password, is a typical source of authentication tokens (e.g., passwords) at an identity provider.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIGS. 5 and 6"]},"The network elements of  include an integration client  which is an application making protected resource requests on behalf of the resource owner and with its authorization. Client  corresponds to the \u201cClient\u201d disclosed in the OAuth specification. Identity provider  is the third party identity server which authorizes the resource owner. Authorization server  is a server that issues access tokens to client  after successfully authenticating the resource owner and obtaining authorization. Authorization server  corresponds to the \u201cAuthorization Server\u201d disclosed in the OAuth specification. Data service server  is a server hosting the protected resources and capable of accepting and responding to protected resource requests using access tokens. Data service server  corresponds to the \u201cResource Server\u201d disclosed in the OAuth specification. Any of the network elements of  can be implemented by server  of .","At , between identity provider  and authorization server , the partner relationship is established by synchronizing the client's metadata and related certificates.","At , client  sends an SAML assertion authorization request to identity provider  and in response is issued a valid SAML assertion with a digital signature at .","At , client  sends the SAML assertion to authorization server  to request an access token.","At , authorization server  validates the SAML assertion and client metadata, and then issues the client a valid access token at .","At , with the access token, client  can visit and access the protected resource in data service .","In one embodiment, the functionality of authentication module  of  is implemented as a web servlet on identity provider  of . A servlet is a Java programming language class used to extend the capabilities of a server. Although servlets can respond to any types of requests, they are commonly used to extend the applications hosted by web servers, so they can be considered analogous to Java applets that run on servers instead of in web browsers. Servlets are typically used to process or store data that was submitted from a HyperText Markup Language (\u201cHTML\u201d) form, provide dynamic content such as the results of a database query, and manage state information that does not exist in the stateless HTTP protocol, such as filling the articles into the shopping cart of the appropriate customer.","Technically, a \u201cservlet\u201d is a Java class in Java EE that conforms to the Java Servlet application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d), a standard for implementing Java classes which respond to requests. Servlets can in general communicate over any client\/server protocol, but they are most often used with the HTTP protocol.","A software developer may use a servlet to add dynamic content to a web server using the Java platform. The generated content is commonly HTML, but may be other data such as Extensible Markup Language (\u201cXML\u201d). Servlets can maintain state in session variables across many server transactions by using HTTP cookies, or uniform resource locator (\u201cURL\u201d) rewriting.","To deploy and run a servlet, a web container is used. A web container (also referred to as a \u201cservlet container\u201d) is essentially the component of a web server that interacts with the servlets. The web container is responsible for managing the lifecycle of servlets, mapping a URL to a particular servlet, and ensuring that the URL requester has the correct access rights.","The servlet API, contained in the Java package \u201chierarchy javax.servlet,\u201d defines the expected interactions of the web container and a servlet. The basic servlet package defines Java objects to represent servlet requests and responses, as well as objects to reflect the servlet's configuration parameters and execution environment. The package \u201cjavax.servlet.http\u201d defines HTTP-specific subclasses of the generic servlet elements, including session management objects that track multiple requests and responses between the web server and a client. Servlets may be packaged in a Web application Archive (\u201cWAR\u201d) file as a web application.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["16","16","301","302","301","305","305","302"]},"AT  further includes an Enterprise JavaBeans (\u201cEJB\u201d) stub  which is an EJB client to apply access token or reload configuration (e.g., Certificates) from the OAuth service  in NT . An SAML assertion validation  is a utility to verify SAML assertion. A Java Message Service (\u201cJMS\u201d) listener  listens to SAML related configuration updates and reloads configurations (e.g., Certificates) from NT .","NT  includes OAuth service , which provides most of the logic described herein to provide authorization server functions. EJB skeleton  is an EJB home to issue access token or reload configuration (e.g., Certificates). An SAML MBean  provides management to add\/list\/remove the identity provider's certificate and restricted audience URLs. A JMS publisher  publishes SAML related configuration updates to AT .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"b":["306","321"]},"At , the request is made for an SAML assertion from client  to servlet . Table 1 below provides a description of request parameters in accordance with one embodiment. In one embodiment, \u201cbase64url\u201d is used to encode messages described herein. Base64url is a known encoding scheme disclosed in RFC4648.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"112pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 1"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Request",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Parameter","Required","Description","Type"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["grant_type","Y","The value of \u201cgrant_type\u201d parameter","String"]},{"entry":[{},{},"MUST be"]},{"entry":[{},{},"\u201cum:ietf:params:oauth:grant-"]},{"entry":[{},{},"type:saml2-bearer\u201d"]},{"entry":["client_id","N","client identifier","String"]},{"entry":["scope","N","The value is defined by the","String"]},{"entry":[{},{},"authorization server."]},{"entry":["assertion","Y","The assertion being used as an","String"]},{"entry":[{},{},"authorization grant. The serialization"]},{"entry":[{},{},"MUST be encoded for transport"]},{"entry":[{},{},"within HTTP forms. It is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"RECOMMENDED that base64url be"]},{"entry":[{},{},"used"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"At , a response to the request is received. Table 2 below provides a description of response parameters in accordance with one embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 2"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Response",{},{},{}]},{"entry":["Parameter","Required","Description","Type"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["access_token","Y","The access token issued by the","String"]},{"entry":[{},{},"authorization server"]},{"entry":["token_type","Y","normally, \u201cbearer\u201d or \u201cmac\u201d. But","String"]},{"entry":[{},{},"in the saml flow, the token type"]},{"entry":[{},{},"could be extended to be \u201cbearer\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},{},"or \u201csaml-bearer\u201d"]},{"entry":["expires_in","Y","The lifetime in seconds of the","String"]},{"entry":[{},{},"access token"]},{"entry":["scope","N","if identical to the scope requested","String"]},{"entry":[{},{},"by the client, otherwise"]},{"entry":[{},{},"REQUIRED"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The following pseudo code is an example of a Request\/Response in accordance to one embodiment:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"===>"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002POST \/token HTTP\/1.1"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002Host: Server.example.com"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002Content-Type: application\/x-www-form-urlencoded"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002client_id=s6BhdRkqt3&"]},{"entry":[{},"grant_type="]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002urn%3Aoasis%3Anames%sAtc%3ASAML%3A2.0%3"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002Aassertion&assertion=PHNhbWxwO1..."]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2002[omitted for brevity]...ZT4"]},{"entry":[{},"<=="]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003HTTP\/1.1 200 OK"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Content-Type: application\/json;charset=UTF-8"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Cache-Control: no-store"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003Pragma: no-cache"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003{"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u201caccess_token\u201d:\u201c2YotnFZFEjr1zCsicMWpAA\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u201ctoken_type\u201d:\u201cbearer\u201d,"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u201cexpires_in\u201d:3600"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2003\u2003}"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"At , the validate assertion is requested, and at - the assertion is validated. The following pseudo code is an example SAML assertion validation in accordance with one embodiment:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<Assertion IssueInstant=\u201c2010-10-01T20:07:34.619Z\u201d"},{"entry":"ID=\u201cef1xsbZxPV2oqjd7HTLRLIBlBb7\u201d"},{"entry":"Version=\u201c2.0\u201d"},{"entry":"xmlns=\u201curn:oasis:names:to:SAML:2.0:assertion\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Issuer>https:\/\/saml-idp.example.com<\/Issuer>"},{"entry":"\u2003<ds:Signature xmlns:ds=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2000\/09\/xmldsig#\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003[...omitted for brevity...]"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/ds:Signature>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Subject>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<NameID"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002Format=\u201curn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-"},{"entry":"format:emailAddress\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002brian@example.com"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/NameID>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<SubjectConfirmation"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002Method=\u201curn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:cm:bearer\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<SubjectConfirmationData"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002NotOnOrAfter=\u201c2010-10-01T20:12:34.619Z\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2002Recipient=\u201chttps:\/\/authz.example.net\/token.oauth2\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<\/SubjectConfirmation>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/Subject>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Conditions>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<AudienceRestriction>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<Audience>https:\/\/saml-sp.example.net<\/Audience>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/AudienceRestriction>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/Conditions>"},{"entry":"\u2003<AuthnStatement AuthnInstant=\u201c2010-10-01T20:07:34.371Z\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<AuthnContext>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<AuthnContextClassRef>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:ac:classes:X509"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2002<\/AuthnContextClassRef>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/AuthnContext>"},{"entry":"\u2002<\/AuthnStatement>"},{"entry":"<\/Assertion>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"At , the signature validation checks if the digital signature in the SAML assertion is the same as the preloaded signature and also if it has not expired.","At , , assertion conditions are checked to determine if the current time does not exceed the assertion permission period.","At , the assertion subject is checked to determine if the current time does not exceed the \u201cSubjectConfirmation\u201d permission period.","If the assertion passes the assertion validation (), an access token is assigned () to the client so that the client can access the resources protected by the OAuth server.","Table 3 below provides a description of checkpoints and processing rules when validating an SAML Assertion in accordance with one embodiment.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"273pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Check Point","Processing Rule"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Issuer","The Assertion's <Issuer> element MUST contain a unique identifier for the entity that issued"]},{"entry":[{},"the Assertion."]},{"entry":[{},"OCSG will check it whether falling into the trusted issuers list."]},{"entry":["Audience","The Assertion MUST contain <Conditions> element with an <AudienceRestriction> element"]},{"entry":[{},"with an <Audience> element"]},{"entry":[{},"containing a URI reference. The token endpoint URL of the authorization server MAY be"]},{"entry":[{},"used as an acceptable value for an"]},{"entry":[{},"<Audience> element. The authorization server MUST verify that it is an intended audience"]},{"entry":[{},"for the Assertion."]},{"entry":["Subject","The Assertion MUST contain a <Subject> element. The subject MAY identify the resource"]},{"entry":[{},"owner for whom the access"]},{"entry":[{},"token is being requested."]},{"entry":["NotOnOrAfter","The Assertion MUST have an expiry that limits the time window during which it can be used."]},{"entry":[{},"The expiry can be"]},{"entry":[{},"expressed either as the NotOnOrAfter attribute of the <Conditions> element or as the"]},{"entry":[{},"NotOnOrAfter attribute of a"]},{"entry":[{},"suitable <SubjectConfirmationData>"]},{"entry":["Method","The <Subject> element MUST contain at least one <SubjectConfirmation> element that"]},{"entry":[{},"allows the authorization server"]},{"entry":[{},"to confirm it as a Bearer Assertion. Such a <SubjectConfirmation> element MUST have a"]},{"entry":[{},"Method attribute with a value"]},{"entry":[{},"of \u201cum:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:cm:bearer\u201d."]},{"entry":["Signature","The Assertion MUST be digitally signed by the issuer and the authorization server MUST"]},{"entry":[{},"verify the signature."]},{"entry":[{},"OCSG should validate the signature and check the trusted certificate whether identical to"]},{"entry":[{},"the attached certificate in Assertion"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 6"],"b":"10"},"At , a client\/user logs into the system with an SSO user\/password.","At , the system generates the SAML assertion for the valid user.","At , the system sends an HTTP request with the SAML assertion, client ID and applied resource to the OAuth server.","At , the OAuth server returns the access token to the client.","At , the client can now access the resource.","As disclosed, embodiments expand the OAuth server authentication ability and provides the standard interface to any identity management platform so that it can easily integrate with the existing identity management platform to implement the single sign-on function.","Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and\/or described herein. However, it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
