---
title: Method to synthesize metal chalcogenide monolayer nanomaterials
abstract: Metal chalcogenide monolayer nanomaterials can be synthesized from metal alkoxide precursors by solution precipitation or solvothermal processing. The synthesis routes are more scalable, less complex and easier to implement than other synthesis routes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09517937&OS=09517937&RS=09517937
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09517937
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150317
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61\/968,182, filed Mar. 20, 2014, which is incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE-AC04-94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to metal chalcogenides and, in particular, to a method to synthesize metal chalcogenide monolayer nanomaterials.","Synthetic routes to tungsten disulfide (WS) and molybdenum disulfide (MoS) nanomaterials (e.g., two-dimensional (2D) monolayers) are of interest for lubricants, catalyst, Li-ion batteries, semiconductors, and photodiodes. Previous efforts to synthesize bulk WSnanomaterials involved chemical vapor deposition techniques, fluidized bed reactors, gas-solid reactions, laser ablation, and spray pyrolysis. For the production of 2D metal sulfide monolayer nanomaterials, synthesis have been limited to high temperature solid-state routes, sulfurization with HS gas, vapor phase routes, exfoliation, and metathesis reaction routes with halide side products that can be detrimental to the application's performance properties. See Y. Feldman et al., 2(6), 663 (2000); C. Altavilla et al., 23, 3879 (2011); H. R. Gutierrez et al., 13(8), 3447 (2013); and Y. Yu et al., 2013, 3:1866 DOI: 10.1038\/srep01866.","Therefore, a need remains for a solution route for the synthesis of metal chalcogenide monolayer nanomaterials that is scalable, less complex and easier to implement than other synthesis routes.","The present invention is directed to a novel solution route to 2D metal sulfide monolayer nanomaterials from the reaction between metal alkoxides M(OR)and hexamethyldisilathiane (HTMS). According to the present invention, both solution precipitation and solvothermal processing of M(OR)and HTMS can be used at low temperatures to produce 2D metal sulfide monolayers. This general reaction route can be extended to produce other metal chalcogenide (ME, E=S, Se, Te) nanomaterials by varying the M(OR)and E precursors. The synthesis route yields air-stable layered nanomaterials. The method offers a scalable route that controls surface chemistry, but does not require additional heating or processing under HS gas.","The present invention is directed to a novel solution route to 2D metal sulfide, selenide, or telluride monolayer nanomaterials from the reaction between metal alkoxides M(OR)and hexamethyldisilathiane (HTMS, or S(Si(CH))) or trioctylphoshine selenide or telluride. For example, metal sulfide nanomaterials (MS) can be prepared from the reaction between M(OR)and HTMS in high boiling coordinating or non-coordinating solvents.  show exemplary solution routes for the synthesis of WS.  shows an exemplary solution route to a metal chalcogenide nanomaterial using a metal alkoxide precursor and HTMS. In this example, the production of the transition metal sulfide WScan be achieved by the solvothermal processing route using tungsten (IV) ethoxide and HTMS.  show exemplary methods using a metal chloride precursor.  shows the chalcogenide precursor materials. These methods can be extended to WEand MoEmore generally. Depending on the conditions used (e.g., solvent, time, temperature) the monolayer size and crystallinity can be controlled. For example, the as-prepared crystalline WSmonolayers can undergo formation of multilayer WSstructures after heat treatment under an inert atmosphere.","Eqs. (1) and (2) listed below show the general reaction routes used to produce metal chalcogenides from metal alkoxides:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"32.34mm","wi":"75.52mm","file":"US09517937-20161213-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["x ","2","2"],"sup":["E","E","E","E"],"i":"Inorg. Chem. "},"As an example, under an inert atmosphere, a mixture of trioctylphosphine oxide (TOPO) (5.00 g, 12.9 mmol), and stoichiometric amounts of the appropriate M(OR)and S(Si(CH))or TOP=Se were added to the teflon liner of a 45 mL Parr Acid Digestion Bomb. The bomb was sealed in the glovebox, placed in an oven and heated to 200\u00b0 C. for 48 h. After cooling to room temperature, the reaction was transferred into a glovebox and the nanoparticles were washed twice, by dissolving the reaction mixture with toluene, then precipitating the MEx nanoparticles with MeOH. The nanoparticles could be redispersed with toluene. Black powders were washed and isolated for both the WSand MoSereactions. Each was dispersible in toluene. Once isolated, the powders were characterized with TEM, EDS, TGA\/DTA, and XPS. These results are described below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIGS. 2()-()","FIG. 2()","FIG. 2()"],"i":"Nature "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 3()","FIG. 3()"],"sub":["2 ","5 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIGS. 4()-()","FIG. 4()"],"sub":["2 ","5 "],"i":"Chem. Mater. "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5","sub":["2 ","2","2 "]},"To help identify how these materials crystallize, thermal analysis was performed under argon. This was done as annealing leads to a more layered structure.  shows thermogravimetric and differential temperature analyses (TGA-DTA) of the WSas synthesized via the W(OEt)route. The samples were ramped up to 850\u00b0 C. and 10\u00b0 C.\/min and held at 850\u00b0 C. for 10 minutes under argon. A weight loss of 12% was observed in the 300-400\u00b0 C. range resulting from the loss of organics or the TOPO surfactant. No decomposition of WSoccurred and as determined by PXRD.  shows the patterns of WSbefore and after annealing. The intensity of the pattern is stronger after annealing.  are TEMs of the WSafter annealing, revealing that the randomized monolayers are now stacking on top of each other to produce the standard layered WS.","A similar approach can be used to synthesize the selenides. The TEM image in  show similar monolayered materials were produced when TOP=Se under similar conditions. EDS also confirmed the presence of Mo and Se.","The present invention has been described as a method to synthesize metal chalcogenide monolayer nanomaterials. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention, the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The detailed description will refer to the following drawings, wherein like elements are referred to by like numbers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIGS. 1()-()","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2()","FIG. 2()"],"sub":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 3()","FIG. 3()"],"sub":["2 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 4()-()"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sub":["2 ","5 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7","sub":["2 ","5 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 8() and 8()","sub":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 9()","FIG. 9()"],"sub":"2 "}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
