---
title: Closed Brayton cycle direct contact reactor/storage tank with Oafterburner
abstract: A closed cycle Brayton direct contact reactor/storage tank uses an afterburner to assist in removing metal vapors from the working fluid. The direct contact reactor/storage tank operates by bubbling an inert gas through liquid metal fuel. The inert gas picks up metal vapors from the fuel. The afterburner comprises a predetermined amount of oxygen, O, being fed to a filter cavity within the reactor/storage tank and having the metal vapors react directly with the Oforming a solid oxide that remains and does not circulate as part of the working fluid throughout the external parts of the Brayton cycle outside of the reactor/storage tank causing damage to system components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07951339&OS=07951339&RS=07951339
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07951339
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 19920807
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","This patent application is copending with the related applications by the same inventor filed on the same date as subject patent entitled Closed Cycle Brayton Propulsion System with Direct Heat Transfer, Ser. No. 07\/926,116, filed 7 Aug. 1992, Closed Brayton Cycle Direct Contact Reactor\/Storage Tank with Chemical Scrubber, Ser. No. 07\/926,090, filed 7 Aug. 1992, Semiclosed Brayton Cycle Power System with Direct Heat Transfer, Ser. No. 07\/926,199, filed 7 Aug. 1992, and Semiclosed Brayton Cycle Power System with Direct Combustion Heat Transfer, Ser. No. 07\/926,115, filed 7 Aug. 1992.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to metal vapor control of the liquid metal fuel used in a direct contact Brayton cycle power system. More particularly the invention relates to a system for eliminating metal vapor at the working gas outlet of a closed Brayton cycle direct contact reactor\/storage tank by use of an Oafterburner.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","My invention titled Closed Cycle Brayton Propulsion System with Direct Heat Transfer, with which this application is copending, discloses the use of the more efficient Brayton cycle instead the Rankine cycle in a closed cycle underwater propulsion system. The size and weight penalty of the Brayton cycle's hot side heat exchanger is eliminated by use of direct contact heat transfer between the working fluid which is an inert gas such as helium, argon, xenon, or a mixture of inert gases, and a liquid metal bath of a material such as lithium, sodium, potassium, aluminum, magnesium, or an alloy thereof.","The closed cycle Brayton power system with direct heat transfer invention as disclosed in copending application, Navy Case No. 71843, has the problem that some of the liquid metal fuel vapor will be carried from the reactor\/fuel exchanger into the working fluid stream. The volume fraction of metal vapor is relatively low; however, during a long run of the power cycle the metal accumulation can damage the regenerator, cooler, turbine, or compressor. The volume fraction of the vapor present is equal to the ratio of the partial pressure of the liquid metal to the system operating pressure, i.e. for aluminum @ 2343\u00b0 F., 1 mm Hg\/\u02dc800 psi=1.6\u00d710, for lithium @ 2323\u00b0 F., 400 mm Hg\/\u02dc800 psi=6.5\u00d710.","Accordingly, it is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide an improved reactor\/storage tank for use in a direct contact closed Brayton cycle power system. It is a further object to provide metal vapor control within the reactor\/storage tank to remove contaminants, such as metal fuel vapors, from the working fluid stream. Another object is to provide longer life in the power system components that come in contact with the working fluid.","These and other objects are accomplished with the present invention by providing a system in which Ois fed into the reactor\/storage tank's filter cavity. This causes the metal vapors in the circulating working fluid stream to react directly with the Oforming a low volume of solid oxide particles at the closed Brayton cycle operating temperatures and pressures. These solid oxide particles settle out of the working gas before it exits the filter cavity.","Referring now to  there is shown a reactor\/storage tank  for transferring heat from a liquid metal fuel  to a working gas in a closed Brayton cycle power system. Although the terminology reactor\/storage tank and direct contact reactor\/storage tank are used to describe component , names such as heater\/reactor housing and direct contact heater could be used.","In the preferred embodiment, a direct contact, metal reactor\/storage tank is partially filled with a liquid metal fuel . Reactor\/storage tank  has a working gas inlet  tube disposed in reactor\/storage tank  below the surface of liquid metal fuel  for the injection of the working gas directly into liquid metal fuel . Working gas inlet  is a tube extending into reactor\/storage tank  with a plurality of apertures therein, disposed along the length thereof. Similarly, a working gas outlet tube  is disposed in reactor\/storage tank  above surface of liquid metal fuel  for the ejection of the working gas from reactor\/storage tank . The flow of the working gas is designated generally by flow arrows . Also disposed within reactor\/storage tank  is an oxidant injector tube . An oxidant is introduced through injector tube  into liquid metal fuel  where it reacts with fuel  to produce heat. An afterburner oxygen injector tube  is disposed in a filter cavity  above the surface of liquid metal fuel  for supplying an oxidant to filter cavity . An electrically controllable oxidant injector control valve  communicates with an oxidant source  for supplying an oxidant to afterburner oxidant injector  in filter cavity .","The oxidizing agent or oxidant in the preferred embodiment is oxygen, O. The reaction between oxygen and an aluminum-magnesium alloy liquid metal fuel provides the preferred means of generating heat within reactor\/storage tank . The working gas is normally argon or a mixture of helium and xenon. Helium, argon and xenon are inert gases and therefore do not react with a metal fuel. Other possible choices for metal fuels include alkali metals, such as lithium, sodium or potassium.","Disposed within the reactor\/storage tank  between liquid metal fuel  and working gas outlet tube  is a screen assembly  for preventing liquid metal fuel  from splattering into working gas outlet tube . A filter , which further prevents contaminants within the working gas from entering working gas outlet tube , is disposed between screen assembly  and working gas outlet tube . Typically, filter  is a ceramic fiber insulation filter.","In operation, after the metal fuel is heated to the liquid state, the working gas is injected through working gas inlet  into reactor\/storage tank . The working gas then bubbles through liquid metal fuel . Representative working gas bubbles  are shown leaving aperture and expanding toward surface of liquid metal fuel . Heat is transferred directly from liquid metal fuel  to the working gas. During this process metal vapors are formed.","When the oxidant, preferably O, is injected into filter cavity  the metal vapors react directly with the oxidant while still inside filter cavity . The small volume of solid metal oxide formed precipitates from the working gas, and remains on filter , thereby removing the metal vapors from the working fluid. A high temperature oxidant sensor , such as is used in automotive emission controls, and a temperature sensor  are disposed within working gas outlet  for detecting the presence of an oxidant in the exit stream. Oxidant sensor  and temperature sensor  are electrically connected to a valve controller  by oxidant sensor connection  and temperature sensor connection . Valve controller  is electrically connected to oxidant injector control valve  by valve control cable . Valve controller  reduces and increases the afterburner oxidant flow in response to the readings from oxidant sensor  and temperature sensor  to give a constant but very low concentration of oxidant in the exit gas stream.","The combination of screen assembly , filter  and the afterburner injector tube  effectively clean the working gas before it passes through outlet tube .","In alternative embodiments, the liquid fuel can be one of the alkali metals such as lithium, sodium, or potassium, and the oxidant can be a chlorofluorocarbon, such as CFClknown in the art as Freon-13. Chlorofluorocarbon oxidants cannot be used with aluminum-magnesium fuel, however, because the products of the oxidation reaction are gaseous at the operating temperature.","There has therefore been described a reactor\/storage tank  that is used in a closed Brayton cycle. The reactor\/storage tank has an afterburner injector tube  in filter cavity  that functions as an afterburner in the path of the working fluid to eliminate metal vapor from the working fluid. In the absence of this afterburner, any metal vapor present in the circulating working fluid plates out and eventually freezes at a point in the cycle where either the partial or total pressure of the gas stream is reduced, or the gas is cooled below the melting point of the vapor. These conditions occur in the turbine, regenerator, and cooler of the direct contact Brayton power cycle. The metal deposits can reduce heat transfer in the regenerator, damage the turbine, or cause a pressure drop in any of the components.","It will be understood that various changes in the details, materials, steps and arrangement of parts, which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention, may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":["A more complete understanding of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereto will be readily appreciated as the invention becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sub":"2 "}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
