---
title: Hydrogen generation apparatus for an underwater vehicle
abstract: A hydrogen generation apparatus for an underwater vehicle is presented, the apparatus including a hydrolysis reaction compartment, a mass of solid lithium hydride disposed in the compartment, inlet and outlet structure for passing sea water through the compartment to generate steam, lithium hydroxide and hydrogen gas, a condenser for condensing out the steam and retaining the condensate and lithium hydroxide, and a tank for collecting the hydrogen gas, the tank having outlet structure for discharging the hydrogen gas to a vehicle propulsion system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07938077&OS=07938077&RS=07938077
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07938077
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 19930527
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","(1) Field of the Invention","The invention relates to the provision of propulsion power for underwater vehicles, and is directed more particularly to a hydrogen gas generating apparatus which utilizes seawater to generate the hydrogen gas.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","It is known to provide unmanned underwater vehicles (UUV) which are adapted to be launched from submarine torpedo tubes and recovered through the submarine torpedo tube. After recovery, the UUV may be refueled and\/or recharged and launched again. Secondary batteries with an electric motor for propulsion meet these requirements but are notably limited in endurance.","Many missions would be available to UUVs if the endurance of such vehicles were substantially longer. It would also be beneficial if in conjunction with improved endurance, the UUV were adapted to run more quietly.","Fuel cells offer several fold improvements over batteries relative to endurance. Of the fuel cells available, the proton exchange membrane (PEM) has been found the most suitable for the undersea requirements of a UUV. However, the PEM fuel cells require both hydrogen and oxygen fuel sources. Hydrogen and oxygen can be stored onboard the UUV as high-pressure compressed gases, but the resulting endurance is only slightly better than with batteries. Further, high-pressure compressed gases are not welcome onboard a submarine. Hydrogen and oxygen may be stored as cryogenic liquids and result in an improvement in endurance of two to three times better than with batteries. However, cryogenic liquids are not welcome onboard submarines. Compressed or cryogenic oxygen is not currently allowed on submarines, nor is compressed or cryogenic hydrogen. While the situation may, in due course, change with respect to oxygen, it is unlikely that there will be a change relative to hydrogen. Hydrogen may be stored by the hydrogenation of metal hydrides, sometimes referred to as \u201chydrogen sponges\u201d, that release the hydrogen upon addition of heat. While hydrogen sponges might be accepted onboard submarines, the improvement in endurance over batteries is marginal.","Accordingly, there exists a need for a hydrogen gas generating apparatus which is acceptable onboard submarines, can provide sufficient hydrogen gas to PEM driven propulsion systems to afford endurance greatly improved over batteries, and provides means for facilitating quieter operation of the UUV.","It is, therefore, an object of the invention to provide a hydrogen gas generation apparatus for an underwater vehicle, the apparatus providing sufficient hydrogen gas to increase the endurance of the vehicle severalfold over that provided by batteries.","A further object of the invention is to provide such an apparatus as is acceptable for storage onboard submarines.","A further object of the invention is to provide such an apparatus having facility for enabling quieter operation of the vehicle.","A still further object of the invention is to provide such an apparatus which utilizes sea water as a hydrogen gas generating component and as a coolant operating at or below the boiling point of the water.","With the above and other objects in view, as will otherwise hereinafter appear, a feature of the present invention is the provision of a hydrogen gas generation apparatus for an underwater vehicle, the apparatus comprising a hydrolysis reaction compartment, a mass of solid lithium hydride disposed in the compartment, inlet and outlet means for passing sea water through the compartment to generate steam, lithium hydroxide and hydrogen gas, a condenser for condensing the steam and lithium hydroxide, and a tank for collecting the hydrogen gas, the tank having outlet means for discharging the hydrogen gas to a vehicle propulsion means.","The above and other features of the invention, including various novel details of construction and combinations of parts, will now be more particularly described with reference to the accompanying drawings and pointed out in the claims. It will be understood that the particular apparatus embodying the invention is shown by way of illustration only and not as a limitation of the invention. The principles and features of this invention may be employed in various and numerous embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention.","Referring to , there is shown diagrammatically a propulsion system for an unmanned underwater vehicle (UUV) . The vehicle is driven by a propulsion system including propellers  turned by an electric motor . The motor  is, in turn, powered by a proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell , as is known in the art. The fuel cell  operates to consume oxygen and hydrogen and convert same to the electricity required to operate the motor .","The oxygen required to fuel the PEM fuel cell is stored in solid form, in chlorates and\/or perclorates, in a stable manner. Oxygen is released by thermal decomposition, or by burning. Hence, such oxygen sources are sometimes referred to as \u201coxygen candles\u201d. Storing oxygen in this manner is acceptable onboard submarines. The use of oxygen candles  to provide oxygen to PEM fuel cells is known in the art and will not be discussed further herein.","The hydrogen required to fuel the PEM fuel cell is, in accordance with the present invention, stored in solid form. The hydrogen is stored in a stable manner within a metal hydride which is water reactive. The process of releasing hydrogen by reaction of metal hydrides with water is referred to as hydrolysis and is known in the art. Storing of both hydrogen and oxygen in solid form offers a marked improvement in endurance over batteries by several fold and provides stability acceptable onboard submarines.","Accordingly, the vehicle shown in  is provided with a hydrogen generation apparatus including a hydrolysis reaction compartment  and a mass of pressed or cast solid lithium hydride (LiH)  disposed in the compartment (). As may be seen in , reaction compartment  is provided with inlet and outlet means, , , respectively, for passing sea water from outside the vehicle through reaction compartment  to generate hydrolysis products, namely, steam, lithium hydroxide (LiOH), and hydrogen gas (H). The above term \u201csteam\u201d is intended to include a two-phase liquid and vapor mixture. The apparatus further includes a condenser  for condensing the steam and lithium hydroxide generated in the reaction compartment. The apparatus still further includes a tank  for collecting hydrogen gas generated in reaction compartment  and passed through condenser . The tank  is provided with an outlet  for discharging the hydrogen gas to PEM fuel cell  of the vehicle propulsion system.","Hydrolysis reaction compartment  is provided with a chamber  for temporary accumulation of the hydrolysis products. Means  for activating reaction compartment inlet means  includes a feed pump , a sea water feed  in a wall  of vehicle , a sea water feed line  extending to reaction compartment , and a motor operated valve .","Condenser  is provided, at a first end  thereof, with a conduit  extending from reaction compartment outlet means  and adapted to convey the hydrolysis products, that is, the steam, lithium hydroxide in droplets of water, and hydrogen gas, from the accumulator chamber  of reaction compartment  to first end  of condenser . Condenser  is provided with a condenser coil . Condenser coil  includes a condenser coil inlet  comprising an extension of the condenser coil and extending through first end  of the condenser and to a condenser cooling water inlet  in the wall  of the vehicle. A condenser cooling water pump  is provided for drawing water from outside the vehicle  through inlet  and forcing the water into the condenser coil inlet , at high rates of hydrogen generation. For quiet operation at low rates of hydrogen generation, the condenser may be cooled by \u201cthermo-siphoning\u201d without the pump  operating.","Condenser  further is provided, at a second end  thereof, with a condenser coil outlet  comprising an extension  of the condenser coil  and extending through second end  of condenser  and to a condenser cooling water outlet  in wall  of vehicle . A droplet screen  is disposed in condenser  proximate to, but removed from, second end  of the condenser. Droplet screen  permits hydrogen gas to pass therethrough, but acts to retard sloshing of liquid therethrough. The condenser is adapted to retain waste water  therein at the first end  thereof and extending proximate to, but removed from, droplet screen . The water  acts to condense the steam and lithium hydroxide, while the hydrogen gas bubbles therethrough and passes through the droplet screen. The water in the condenser substantially covers condenser coil .","Condenser  is still further provided with a water inlet means  for admitting sea water to the condenser, and waste water outlet means  for discharging waste water from the condenser to the exterior of the vehicle. The water inlet means  includes a water inlet conduit  extending from the vehicle wall  to condenser , and a motor driven water inlet valve  in conduit , such that upon activation of the inlet valve , sea water is admitted through a water inlet  to the condenser to fill the condenser on start-up.","Waste water outlet means  includes a waste water outlet conduit  extending from condenser  to vehicle wall , a motor driven waste water outlet valve  in conduit , and a waste water outlet pump  in conduit , such that upon activation of outlet valve  and outlet pump , the waste water in condenser  is discharged through a waste water outlet  to the exterior of the vehicle.","A level control means  is disposed in the condenser and is operative to maintain a proper level of waste water in condenser . When the level rises to its maximum desired level, level control means  is operative to activate waste water outlet valve  and waste water outlet pump  to discharge waste water from the condenser to lower the level of the waste water.","A hydrogen supply line  interconnects condenser second end  and a buffer tank  and conveys the hydrogen gas passed through condenser  to the buffer tank which is adapted to store accumulated hydrogen gas. The buffer tank feeds hydrogen gas to the PEM fuel cell which converts the hydrogen gas and the aforementioned oxygen into electrical power for energizing electric motor  for driving propellers .","Tank  is provided with a pressure sensor  which is adapted, upon detection of pressure approaching too low to support fuel cell operation, to activate the reaction compartment inlet means  to initiate further production of hydrogen gas, thereby to increase the hydrogen gas pressure in tank .","In operation, the vehicle  is stored onboard a submarine. The hydrogen generation apparatus is free of water and, other than the reaction compartment , is charged with an inert gas, such as argon. Thus, after launch, condenser  must be sufficiently filled with water to cover the condenser coils . To accomplish filling of the condenser, motor operated water inlet valve  is opened to permit the sea depth pressure to fill condenser  until the level control means closes the inlet valve. Thus, initially, the water in the condenser is sea water, rather than waste water. However, as the hydrogen generation process progresses, the reservoir of water in the condenser becomes substantially a mixture of condensed steam, lithium hydroxide and sea water.","To start the generation of hydrogen, motor operated valve  is opened and feed pump  is started. Sea water is pumped to the reaction compartment  and contacts the solid lithium hydride, to produce hydrogen, steam, and droplets of water near-saturated with lithium hydroxide. The three hydrolysis products accumulate in reaction compartment chamber  and pass through conduit  to condenser . The steam carries away the heat of reaction. The droplets carry away the lithium hydroxide.","The hydrogen, steam, and lithium hydroxide droplets enter condenser  at first end . The steam bubbles into the condenser and is condensed. The droplets are retained in the condenser. The aggregate of start-up sea water, condensed steam, and droplets rich in lithium hydroxide is referred to as product waste water . The hydrogen bubbles through the waste water  and passes to second end  of the condenser.","The addition of condensed steam and droplets causes the waste water level in the condenser to rise. The level control means  senses when the waste water level is at the high limit and turns on waste water outlet pump . Waste water is pumped overboard until the level control means senses the waste water has reached the lower level at which time the level control means turns off water outlet pump  and closes valve .","The hydrogen at the second end  of the condenser passes through droplet screen , which is fine-pored and adapted to retain sloshing waste water and particulate matter in the condenser.","Coolant for condenser  is drawn from the sea. Condenser cooling water inlet pump  moves condenser cooling water through condenser coil . The condenser cooling water flow is required to maintain the temperature of the waste water at 80\u00b0-90\u00b0 C. The hydrogen leaves the condenser  and passes to buffer tank . The buffer tank operates to accumulate hydrogen gas and provide a ready quantity of hydrogen for the Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) fuel cell. A ready reservoir of hydrogen gas affords time for reaction compartment  to respond to changes in fuel cell power levels. Typically, it requires a few minutes for the generation of hydrogen to come to full rate from shut-off. The reservoir of hydrogen gas also permits quiet operation at low power levels. The hydrogen generation operation is periodic, with pumps and motors being turned on and off. Storing a sizable quantity of hydrogen permits quiet operation at low power levels for hours. Tank  further serves as a buoyancy tank, ensuring that the vessel is neutrally buoyant and able to loiter underwater. The pressure sensor  in the tank  senses when the hydrogen pressure falls close to PEM fuel cell minimum pressure requirements. When the pressure is low, sea water is pumped to the reaction compartment  to restart hydrogen production.","During operation of the system described herein, to effect hydrolysis, a passivating film of lithium hydroxide (LiOH) forms on the solid in accordance with the reaction: LiH+HO=LiOH+H+3975 cal\/g (LiH). The LiOH film provides a means for reaction control. Near linear control of hydrogen generation rate is achieved as a function of water flow. When the water flow to the reaction compartment  is shut off, the film forms, isolating the unreacted LiH from the water-dissolved LiOH mixture. When the water flow is turned on, or increased, the film dissolves into the water, causing the LiH to hydrolyze. The rate of film dissolution is believed to be nearly linear with the water flow rate, providing for control of the LiH hydrolysis reaction. The film further allows for use of excess water, causing the reaction to occur at or below boiling temperature, simplifying hardware requirements. The excess water is further useful to remove the sizable heat of reaction, 3975 cal\/g (LiH), and transport the heat of reaction from the site as steam.","Thus, there is provided a hydrogen generation apparatus suitable for underwater vehicles. The apparatus affords greatly increased endurance for such vehicles, is safe for storage onboard submarines, enables quiet operation for long periods of time at low power levels, and utilizes the surrounding sea water in its operation.","It will be understood that the present invention is by no means limited to the particular construction herein disclosed and\/or shown in the drawings, but also comprises any modifications or equivalents within the scope of the claims. While the apparatus has been described in terms of a component for an underwater vehicle propulsion system, and is particularly well-suited for such use in view of the requirement for a supply of water, it will be apparent that the same system is readily adaptable to dry land operations, provided a ready source of water is made available."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Reference is made to the accompanying drawings in which is shown an illustrative embodiment of the invention, from which its novel features and advantages will be apparent.","In the drawings:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
