---
title: Method and apparatus for controlling network connections based on destination locations
abstract: Techniques for controlling a network connection in accordance with connection information associated with a destination location on a network are disclosed. Controlling of the network connection in accordance with connection information associated with the destination location can be achieved in a variety of ways. One way is in the selection of a network transport (e.g., bearer selection). Another way is in the configuration of parameters associated with the connection (i.e., connection parameters). In either case, the connection information includes information with which the selection of the network transport and/or connection parameters can be made. The controlling of the network connection impacts quality of service provided to a requestor that is requesting use of the connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07010603&OS=07010603&RS=07010603
owner: Openwave Systems Inc.
number: 07010603
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 19980817
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to network connections and, more particularly, to controlling characteristics of network connections.","2. Description of the Related Art","A wireless network is often used to transmit messages from an origin location in a network to a destination location in the network. The network that the wireless network is coupled to often includes many servers that store various kinds of information. These messages contain data to be supplied to the destination location. Often the messages are requests for information from the destination location. In other cases the messages are responses to requests for information from a source location. In still other cases the messages are notification messages that are sent to the destination location without any specific request. The wireless network typically includes various mobile devices and multiple underlying bearer networks to support the connections between the mobile devices and the network.","Mobile devices are provisioned (i.e., configured) to operate in specific ways. The provisioning can be preset in the mobile phone, can be performed by a user, or more often can be performed over the air when the mobile device connects to the wireless network. The provisioning of a mobile device determines how various basic functions of the mobile device will operate. Typically, a mobile device has a set of local services that provides the basic functions of the mobile device. Examples of such basic functions include setting or updating wireless voice and data protocol parameters, address books, and various other parameters that can be used to enable or disable certain telephony and data features of the mobile devices.","Conventionally, through provisioning or manufacturing of mobile devices, a fixed set of rules control how connections are made between a mobile device and a network (e.g., bearer network and protocol stack). Despite the fixed set of connection rules, quality of service could be altered in a limited sense by configuring protocol stacks with different parameters (e.g., re-transmission timers and circuit linger timers). See Handheld Device Transport Protocol (HDTP). Quality of service has been able to be configured by specialized Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) which must have detailed knowledge of the communication system, see e.g., Microsoft's Windows Telephony API).","One problem with conventional approaches to establishing connections between a mobile device and a network is that they provide only limited configurability to network connections. As a result, the extent to which quality of service is able to be conventionally controlled is severely limited. Other problems with the conventional approaches are that the conventional approaches do not operate on a per-application basis or do not enable a network operator to control configuration of network connections. In addition, the conventional approaches do not operate in a flexible and controllable way.","Thus, there is a need for improved ways to control network connections and thus quality of service for devices connecting to a network.","Broadly speaking, the invention relates to techniques for controlling a network connection in accordance with connection information associated with a destination location on a network. Controlling of the network connection in accordance with connection information associated with the destination location can be achieved in a variety of ways. One way is in the selection of a network transport (e.g., bearer selection). Another way is in the configuration of parameters associated with the connection (i.e., connection parameters). In either case, the connection information includes information with which the selection of the network transport and\/or connection parameters can be made. The controlling of the network connection impacts quality of service provided to a requestor that is requesting use of the connection.","The invention is suitable for use in either a wired communication system or a wireless communication system. In the case of wireless communication systems, several network characteristics can dynamically impact the behavior of the quality of service. These network characteristics include network stack behavior and choice of network transport (e.g., bearer). Network stack behavior is, for example, influenced by connection parameters such as re-transmission timers and linger timers. Often, there are multiple transport networks available to wireless communication systems, and each transport network typically has dramatically different quality characteristics due to tradeoffs between bandwidth, latency, reliability and cost. The selection of one of the multiple transport networks is influenced by the connection information.","The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including a method, a computer readable medium, a system, and an apparatus. Several embodiments of the invention are discussed below.","As a method for providing a network connection between a network browser and a network, one embodiment of the invention include the acts of: determining when the network browser desires to access a server machine located at a particular network address on the network; subsequently providing a network connection between the network browser and the server machine in accordance with connection information associated with the particular network address; and accessing the server machine located at the particular network address using the network connection.","As a method for retrieving a resource from a remote server on a network, one embodiment of the invention includes the acts of: receiving a universal resource locator for a resource to be obtained from a remote server on a network; obtaining connection information associated with the universal resource locator; providing a network connection to the network in accordance with the obtained connection information that is associated with the universal resource locator; and retrieving, over the network connection, the resource from the remote server on the network at a location identified by the universal resource locator.","As a computer readable medium including computer program code for retrieving a resource from a remote server on a network, one embodiment of the invention includes: computer program code for receiving a destination identity for a resource to be obtained from a remote server on a network; computer program code for obtaining connection information associated with the destination identity; computer program code for providing a network connection to the network in accordance with the obtained connection information that is associated with the destination identity; and computer program code for retrieving, over the network connection, the resource from the remote server on the network at a location identified by the destination identity.","As a wireless communication system, one embodiment of the invention includes: a wired network having a plurality of server computers; a first network transport operatively connectable to the wired network; a second network transport operatively connectable to the wired network; a plurality of wireless mobile devices, each of the wireless mobile devices including a network browser, a display and a configuration table. When a particular one of the network browsers desires to access a resource from one of the server computers of the wired network using a universal resource locator for the resource, the particular wireless browser operates to obtain connection information associated with the universal resource locator from the configuration table, establish or adjust a network connection to the wired network in accordance with the obtained connection information associated with the universal resource locator from the configuration table, retrieve the resource from the one of the remote server computers on the wired network at a location identified by the universal resource locator via the network connection, and then display the retrieved resource on the display of the particular network browser.","As a mobile device capable of connecting to a network of computers through a wireless link, one embodiment of the invention includes: a display screen that displays graphics and text; an application that requests and receives information from the network of computers; a configuration table containing connection information stored with relation to network addresses associated with the network of computers; and a connection controller. The connection controller operates to receive a request to access a resource from one of the computers of the network of computers using a network resource locator, retrieve connection information associated with the network resource locator from the configuration table, establish or adjust a network connection to the network of computers in accordance with the retrieved connection information from the configuration table, and thereafter retrieve the resource from the one of the computers of the network of computers via the network connection.","The advantages of the invention are numerous and certain embodiments of the invention can have one or more of the following advantages. One advantage of the invention is that it provides a great deal of flexibility over quality of service provided with respect to network connections. Another advantage of the invention is that the quality of service is able to be controlled by a device manufacturer, a network operator, or a user. Still another advantage of the invention is that implementations are easy to manage and configure.","Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate, by way of example, the principles of the invention.","The invention relates to techniques for controlling a network connection in accordance with connection information associated with a destination location on a network. Controlling of the network connection in accordance with connection information associated with the destination location can be achieved in a variety of ways. One way is in the selection of a network transport (e.g., bearer selection). Another way is in the configuration of parameters associated with the connection (i.e., connection parameters). In either case, the connection information includes information with which the selection of the network transport and\/or connection parameters can be made. The controlling of the network connection impacts quality of service (QoS) provided to a requestor that is requesting use of the connection.","The network connection can pertain to connection or connectionless communications. An example of the connection communication is a circuit-switched network in which a point-to-point protocol is often operated, while an example of the connectionless communication is a packet-switched network in which a connectionless protocol, such as UDP (User Datagram Protocol), is often operated","The invention is suitable for use in either a wired communication system or a wireless communication system. In the case of wireless communication systems, several network characteristics can dynamically impact the behavior of the quality of service. These network characteristics include network stack behavior and choice of network transport (e.g., bearer). Network stack behavior is, for example, influenced by connection parameters such as re-transmission timers and linger timers. Often, there are multiple transport networks available to wireless communication systems, and each transport network typically has dramatically different quality characteristics due to tradeoffs between bandwidth, latency, reliability and cost. The selection of one of the multiple transport networks is influenced by the connection information.","Network characteristics can dynamically impact the behavior of the quality of service. Quality of service refers to the perceived service quality by either an end user or a network operator. Typically, an end user is concerned with cost of service, reliability, performance and response time. A network operator is typically more concerned with congestion control, load balancing, cost control and other network management issues.","According to the invention, the network connection is controlled in accordance with connection information that is associated with the destination location on the network. In one embodiment, the connection information is stored in a configuration table. The network connection (or configuration) can thus be table-driven. In one embodiment, table entries in the configuration table are keyed off the destination location (e.g., URL or destination location) of a request. Also, in one embodiment of the invention, the mobile devices include network browser applications to communicate with a network. As a network browser application goes through its processing and finds the need to establish a network connection or otherwise to modify the network configuration, the contents of a configuration table are used to indicate the appropriate behavior of the network connection (e.g., network characteristics). For example, in a wireless communication system, many network browser applications will have the choice of a data packet bearer or a circuit-switched bearer.","Embodiments of the invention are discussed below with reference to . However, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is for explanatory purposes as the invention extends beyond these limited embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","102","104","106","107","102","100"]},"The network gateway  is also coupled to a network . The network  can be a private network or a public network, either wired or wireless. An example of a large public network is the Internet. The network  includes or is coupled to a plurality of remote servers including a remote server  and a remote server . The network gateway  is typically a computer system that operates to send and receive information to and from the mobile device  and the network . The wireless network A  and the wireless network B  typically use radio transmissions to communicate with the mobile device . Often, but not necessarily, the wireless network A  and the wireless network B  use different networks or different protocols. The wireless network A  and the wireless network  can use a variety of different networks and communication protocols. Examples of wireless networks include Cellular Digital Packet Data (CDPD), Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) and Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) to name a few, and each of these wireless networks has different data transfer characteristics such as latency, bandwidth, protocols and connection methods. As examples, protocols can be Internet Protocol (IP), Short Messaging System (SMS) and Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD), and connection methods can include packet-switched or circuit-switched.","The remote servers  and  are typically computers coupled to the network . Typically, the servers provide resources that are accessible via the network .","According to the invention, the network connections being established between the mobile device  and the network  are controllable. As a result, network characteristics or quality of service for particular connections can be set. The network connections are controlled using connection information. Preferably, the connection information is in a format that is most efficiently transportable in a wireless network. There may be a number of different formats, such as ASCII data, binary data, executable or object code, each suitable for a particular wireless network. The connection information is able to be dynamically changed by updating the configuration table. The configuration table can be updated or altered by a user of a mobile device setting of preferences, by a network operator at the network gateway , or by a remote server on the network .","In one embodiment, the connection information is supplied to the mobile device  by the network gateway  and stored in a configuration table in the mobile device . For example, the connection information could cause certain mobile devices or requests to certain remote servers to use the wireless network B  instead of the wireless network A . As another example, requests to different resources on the network  could use the same wireless network but cause the connections to have different network characteristics or quality of service.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200"]},"The network browser request processing  begins with a decision block . The decision block  determines whether a Universal Resource Locator (URL) request has been received. Here, the network browser request processing  awaits the reception of a URL request before the network browser request processing  effectively begins. In other words, the network browser request processing  is activated when a URL request is ready to be transmitted to a remote server on a network being browsed by the network browser.","Once the decision block  determines that a URL request has been received, then the network browser request processing  obtains  connection information based on the URL. The connection information can be obtained  from a variety of sources. Typically, the connection information is stored within the computing device that supports the network browser. More generally, however, the connection information is accessible to the network browser. The connection information is information that specifies parameters or characteristics of a network connection between the network browser and the network. For example, the connection information can include bearer preferences and network parameters. Examples of network parameters include various timers and rates, such as linger timers, re-transmission timers, packet transmission rates, etc.","After the connection information is obtained , a network connection is provided  between the network browser and the network in accordance with the connection information. Here, the connection information specifies the type or characteristics of the network connection to be made between the network browser and the network. In some cases, the network connection to be made may already be established and, in other cases, the network connection needs to be established. In either case, the network connection that is utilized is configured in accordance with the connection information.","Next, a resource is retrieved  from the network at the URL associated with the URL request. The resource is specified by the URL and is retrieved from the network over the network connection. As an example, the resource is retrieved from a remote server on the Internet using HTTP protocol. After the resource is retrieved , the retrieved resource is displayed . Typically, the retrieved resource would be displayed  on a display screen of the computing device that is associated with the network browser. Following block , the network browser request processing  is complete and ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B","b":["300","300"]},"The network browser request processing  initially begins with a decision block . The decision block  determines whether a URL request has been received. The URL request is a request for a resource on a network to which the network browser can couple. The resource is, for example a page in a markup language such as HTML. If a URL request has not yet been received, the network browser request processing  simply awaits the reception of a URL request. Once the decision block  determines that a URL request has been received, the network browser request processing  continues. A URL request is simply a request by the network browser for a resource located at a particular network address on a network.","After a URL request has been received, a configuration table is searched  for a matching entry. The configuration table is stored in the computing device. Here, the URL from the URL request is used to locate a matching entry within the configuration table. Hence, the URL is the \u201ckey\u201d for the search  through the configuration table.","Next, a decision block  determines whether a matching entry has been found in the configuration table. When the decision block  determines that a matching entry has been found, configuration information associated with the matching entry is retrieved  from the configuration table. On the other hand, when the decision block  determines that a matching entry has not been found, default configuration information is retrieved . Typically, the default configuration information would also be contained within the configuration table.","Following either of blocks  or , a decision block  determines whether multiple bearers are available. A bearer is a network and protocol suite that provides a predefined communication service over the network. When the decision block  determines that multiple bearers are available, then the network browser request processing  selects  one of the available bearers. The selection of the particular one of the bearers is performed in accordance with the configuration information. The selection of the particular one of the bearers can be performed in a variety of ways. An exemplary technique for selecting one of the bearers is provided in detail below. On the other hand, when the decision block  determines that multiple bearers are not available, then the network browser request processing  selects  the only available bearer.","Following blocks  or , the network browser request processing  modifies  a network protocol stack for the selected bearer based on the configuration information. Various modifications to the network protocol stack can be made in accordance with the configuration information. Typically, the modifications pertain to characteristics associated with the network connection that is provided by the selected bearer and its associated network protocol stack. As an example, a linger timer can be controlled by the configuration information such that the network protocol stack would be modified in accordance with a desired linger time for access to the particular URL.","Next, a decision block  determines whether the selected bearer is active. When the decision block  determines that the selected bearer is not active, then a connection is established  with the network via the network protocol stack and the selected bearer. On the other hand, when the decision block  determines that the selected bearer is already active, there is no need to establish the connection; hence, block  is bypassed.","Following block , or following the decision block  when the selected bearer is active, the requested resource is retrieved  from the network at the URL over the network connection. Then, the retrieved resource is displayed . Following block , the network browser request processing  is complete and ends.","The configuration table can be implemented in a variety of ways. A representative configuration table for a communication system offering three different bearers is shown in Table 1 below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"URL","Bearer #1","Bearer #2","Bearer #3"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/cell.com\/app1","Yes","No","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"http:\/\/411.cell.com\/","Yes","Yes","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"*","Yes","No","No"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 3C","FIG. 3A"],"b":["350","350","314"]},"The bearer selection system  includes a selection engine  that operates to select a bearer over which an incoming request to access a particular network address (e.g., URL) is to use. A permitted bearers list  is produced by searching a configuration table for matching entries and then determining those bearers that are available for access to the particular network address. The searching through the configuration table can be done by string searching (e.g., a domain name prefix match) all or some portion of the network address. The permitted bearers list  thus indicates those bearers that are permitted to be used when accessing the particular network address. The permitted bearers list  is supplied to the selection engine . The selection engine  also receives an accessible bearers list  and an active bearers list . The accessible bearers list  is a list maintained on the computing device (mobile device) that specifies the bearers which the mobile device currently can access. For example, as a mobile device moves between different geographical locations, the bearers that the mobile device can access change from location to location. The active bearers list  is a list of bearers that are currently active with respect to the mobile device. In other words, the active bearers are active because the mobile device currently has a connection to these bearers. The selection engine  is then able to select one of the permitted bearers within the permitted bearers list  based on information in the accessible bearers list  and\/or the active bearers list .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 3D","b":["360","354","352","352","360","354","356","358"]},"The bearer selection processing  begins with a decision block  that determines whether Bearer #1 is active. When the decision block  determines that Bearer #1 is active, then Bearer #1 is selected . On the other hand, when the decision block  determines that Bearer #1 is not active, then a decision block  determines whether Bearer #2 is active. When the decision block  determines that Bearer #2 is active, then Bearer #2 is selected . According to the bearer selection processing  of this embodiment, the Bearer #1 is given a preference over Bearer #2. An active bearer means that the bearer is supporting a connection and the bearer is accessible.","Alternatively, when the decision block  determines that Bearer #2 is not active, then a decision block  determines whether Bearer #1 is accessible. When the decision block  determines that Bearer #1 is accessible, then Bearer #1 is selected . On the other hand, when the decision block  determines that Bearer #1 is not accessible, then a decision block  determines whether Bearer #2 is accessible. When the decision block  determines that Bearer #2 is accessible, then Bearer #2 is selected . Again, this embodiment provides Bearer #1 with a preference even when neither Bearer #1 or Bearer #2 are active. Following blocks  and , the bearer selection processing  is complete and ends because a particular bearer has been selected. Thereafter, the access request can be performed over the selected bearer.","When the decision block  determines that Bearer #2 is not accessible, then an error condition is reported . The error condition results because none of the permitted bearers are able to be selected by the bearer selection processing , namely, because none of the permitted bearers are accessible. In this case, an error condition is reported  and the request for access to the network address is determined to be unavailable. Following block , the bearer selection processing  is also complete and ends.","An example of the bearer selection processing  is provided for access request to the following URL: \u201chttp:\/\/wta.op.net:8080\/\u201d. This example also uses Tables 2, 3 and 4. Table 2 pertains to a configuration table containing connection information in the form of bearer information. Table 3 pertains to an accessible bearers list indicating accessibility of bearers. Table 4 pertains to an active bearers list indicating which of the bearers are active.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Scheme","Network Address","Bearer #1","Bearer #2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"http","wta.op.net","Yes","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"http","op.net:8000","Yes","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"http","op.net","No","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},"*","*","No","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"91pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 3"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Bearer #1","Bearer #2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"91pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Accessible","No","Yes"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 4"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Bearer #1","Bearer #2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Active","No","No"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"From the configuration in Table 2, the permitted bearers list would include an ordered list specifying whether Bearer #1 or Bearer #2 are permitted. The ordered list would be obtained from the first row in the configuration table where the stored scheme and network address match that of the same in the request (with the exception of the port). Since the network address stored in the first row of the configuration table is \u201cwta:op.net\u201d and does not specify a particular port, the stored network address then applies to any port having the same network address. Hence, the first row in the configuration table would sufficiently match (e.g., best string prefix match) that of the request.","In this example, the ordering of the list is assumed to state a preference towards those bearers listed earlier. Here, then the ordered list from the first row would contain Bearer #1 and Bearer #2 with a preference for Bearer #1. The preference can be established by the user, a network operator, etc. as desired for performance, cost, traffic control, and various other reasons.","The bearer selection processing  illustrated in  can then be used to determine which of Bearer #1 and Bearer #2, if any, are to be selected. According to Table 4 neither Bearer #1 or Bearer #2 are active, so the bearer selection is not determined by the decision blocks  and . Next, in decision blocks  and , it is determined whether the bearer selection is achieved from the permitted bearer list and the accessible bearer list in Table 3. Here, in this example, although Bearer #1 is given a preference by the permitted bearer list, the Bearer #2 is selected because Bearer #1 is indicated as not being accessible by the accessible bearers list in Table 3. Accordingly, in this example, the selected bearer is Bearer #2. Given that there is no active connection present, the request would be sent to the network using Bearer #2 after establishing a session connection.","In this example, Bearers #1 and Bearers #2 can correspond to CDMA_SMS and CDMA_CSD, respectively. Note CDMA_SMS is a low bandwidth bearer that is packet-switched and always active, whereas CDMA_CSD is a high bandwidth bearer which is circuit-switched and not active unless a connection is made.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 4A","FIG. 1"],"b":["400","400","400","102"]},"When the initialization processing  begins, a connection is established  between the network browser and the network gateway. For example, with respect to , the connection can be established between a network browser operating on the mobile device  and the network gateway . Then, provisioning information can be downloaded  from the network gateway to the mobile device . Here, as an example, the mobile device is associated with a specific subscriber identifier, and the network gateway  stores specific provisioning information associated specific subscriber identifiers. The network gateway  identifies the provisioning information for the mobile device based on the specific subscriber identifier and then downloads the identified provisioning information over the established connection. Additionally, a configuration table is downloaded  from the network gateway in a similar manner. That is, the network gateway  is able to select or identify the appropriate configuration table to be downloaded  to the mobile device by use of the specific subscriber identifier. For example, with respect to , the network gateway  also stores one or more configuration tables to be used by the various mobile devices , and the appropriate one of the configuration tables is downloaded to the network browser via the established connection. Following block , the initialization processing  is complete and ends.","The configuration information can change due to many circumstances, including network usage, user's preferences, equipment failures, etc. In any case, when the configuration information changes the network configuration tables at the network gateway are updated. However, when various mobile devices have already been powered-up prior to the update, then the various mobile devices would lack the current configuration information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":["450","450","450"]},"The update processing  begins with a decision block . The decision block  determines whether a configuration table has been updated. Here, in the network gateway, there is programming logic that monitors the various configuration tables. When the programming logic determines that one or more of the configuration tables have been updated, then the update processing  causes the appropriate configuration tables to be downloaded  from the network gateway to the associated mobile devices which are still powered-on. In this way, the mobile devices are able to obtain the updated configuration tables (or connection information) from the network gateway. Following block , the update processing  is complete and ends.","It should also be noted that the configuration table or the connection information can be provided from any server on the network to which the mobile device has connected. Hence, the mobile device need not receive the configuration table from the network gateway, though the network gateway (e.g., proxy server) is a convenient location to store and manage the configuration tables.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["500","500","500","104"]},"The network gateway processing  initially begins with a decision block . The decision block  determines whether a request has been received from a mobile device. The request can be embedded in a message sent to a remote server or standalone as a message to the remote server that couples to the network gateway via a network. The request signals a request for a resource located on a remote server. When the decision block  determines that a request has not yet been received from a mobile device, then the network gateway processing  awaits the reception of such a request. However, once the decision block  determines that a request has been received from a mobile device, then the network gateway processing  continues.","Once the network gateway processing  has a request to be processed, the request is forwarded  to the remote server. Next, a decision block  determines whether a response has been received from the remote server. Here, the network gateway processing  is awaiting the reception of a response from the remote server to the request that was forwarded  to the remote server. The response waited for is the information requested (i.e., resource). When the response has not yet been received, the decision block  causes the network gateway processing  to await the response. However, a time-out condition is often utilized to prevent the network gateway processing  from having to await the reception of a response for an undue amount of time.","Once the decision block  determines that the response has been received from the remote server, then the response is forwarded  to the requesting mobile device. At this point, the network gateway processing  has completed the processing of issuing a request on behalf of the mobile device and forwarding the response from a remote server to the mobile device. The mobile device can then process the response, such as by displaying the response of a display screen of the mobile device. Following block , the network gateway processing  returns to the beginning of the network gateway processing  to process subsequent requests or messages.","Alternatively, a message can instead be supplied to the network gateway by the remote server without the mobile device having made a request. In such a case, a decision block  simply receives the message from the remote server. Following block  when the message has been received from the remote server, the network gateway processing  continues with block  as previously discussed and then returns to the beginning of the network gateway processing  to process subsequent requests or messages.","Although the communications system discussed above often included a network gateway (or proxy server), it should be recognized that the invention can operate without such a network gateway or proxy server by directly coupling the wireless network to the network of computers. In such a case, the mobile device (computing device) can obtain the connection information for the configuration table from any computer coupled to the network of computers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","600","602","604","602","606","608","606","606","609","606"]},"The network gateway  operates to provide a gateway from the wired section  and the wireless section . The wireless section  includes a carrier network  and at least one remote wireless computing device . The network gateway  serves as a primary transition point between the wireless communication of the wireless section  and the wired communication of the wired section . A content request is issued by the remote wireless computing device . The network gateway  receives the incoming content request from the carrier network  and performs protocol conversion as necessary. The network gateway  will normally perform some protocol translation and other account management and verification operations. The network gateway  includes an account information storage area  that stores account, configuration and other information. The network gateway  also includes network configuration tables  for the various remote wireless computing devices of the communication system . These network configuration tables  are utilized and maintained as discussed above. According to the invention, the network gateway  also receives messages from the network  and forwards them to the appropriate remote computing devices.","The remote computing device  can, for example, be a mobile phone, a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), or a portable general purpose computer. The remote wireless computing device  includes a display  for displaying screens or pages of information, a remote wireless browser , and navigation buttons  and . The remote wireless browser , alternatively referred to as a network browser herein, is usually an application program that executes on the remote computing device . The remote wireless browser  provides the screens or pages of information to be displayed on the display . The navigation buttons  and  allow a user to navigate through or make selections from menus or lists being displayed on the display  by the remote wireless browser . The remote wireless computing device  can also include an alphanumeric keypad (not shown) that allows a user to enter alphanumeric information with respect to the mobile telephone , though such is not necessary as alphanumeric information can also be entered using a dial screen displayed on the display  with selections being made using the navigation buttons  and . By interacting with the remote wireless browser , a user is able to access information located on the network . Additionally, the remote wireless computing device  includes a configuration table . The configuration table  may be preloaded when the device  is manufactured and modified or updated subsequently such as by executing an application program through a user interface. Nevertheless, the configuration table  stores connection information used in establishing and configuring network connections between the remote wireless computing device  and the carrier network .","Typically, the wireless section  includes a plurality of remote wireless browsers , each of which executes on a different remote computing device. The configuration and other information stored in the account information storage area  can store service limitations, security limitations, preference information, screen configuration information, and the like for each of the remote wireless browsers . The account information storage area  can also store data or pages of data that are of interest to the remote wireless browsers . The stored data or pages can operate as a cache of information previously requested from the network  or can operate as an information server within the network gateway . For example, as an information server, the storage pages can represent pages to be displayed by the remote wireless browsers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","600","700","608","700"]},"According to one embodiment, the network gateway  includes a User Datagram Protocol (UDP) interface  that couples to the carrier network , an HTTP interface  that couples to the network , and a server module  coupled between the UDP interface  and the HTTP interface . The server module  performs traditional server processing as well as protocol conversion processing. In particular, the protocol conversion processing includes protocol conversion between UDP and HTTP. It should be understood that UDP interface  and HTTP interface  are used particularly for respective communication protocols, namely, HTTP in the network  and UDP in the carrier network , and can be substituted accordingly with other protocol interfaces when the respective communication protocols change. The server module  can also performs the processing associated with message fragmentation and delivery. Further, to assist the server module  in its processing, the proxy server  includes a random access memory (RAM)  and a read-only memory (ROM) . Among other things, the RAM  will store device identifiers, subscriber identifiers, configuration information, network configuration tables, and initial local services information. In one embodiment, such information is stored in the RAM  as a database. Also, the RAM  can represent the account information storage area  and the network configuration tables  illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 6","FIG. 6A"],"b":["750","600","750","616","620"]},"The mobile device  includes a UDP interface  that couples to the carrier network  via a RF transceiver  to receive incoming and outgoing signals. A device identifier (ID) storage  supplies a device ID to the UDP interface . The device ID identifies a specific code that is associated with a particular mobile device . In addition, the mobile device  includes a client module  that performs many of the processing tasks performed by the mobile device  including establishing a communication session with the carrier network  and the network gateway , requesting and receiving data (e.g., pages) from the network , displaying information on a display of the remote computing device, and receiving user input. The client module  is coupled to the UDP interface  for the establishment of a communication session and the requesting and receiving of data. The client module  also performs the processing associated with the reception of the messages transmitted from the gateway computer , , including the obtaining and using of the appropriate connection information from a configuration table. The client module  controls the display driver  to display information on the display  to the user. Additionally, the client module  is coupled to an input device , a ROM , and a RAM . Preferably, among other things, the client module  operates a network browser, such as a Handheld Device Markup Language (HDML) web browser. The input device  allows a user of the mobile device  to input data and thus make selections in controlling and using the mobile device . The ROM  stores predetermined data and processing instructions for the client module . The RAM  is used to provide temporary data storage for incoming and outgoing data being received and transmitted. The RAM  is also used to store the configuration table (e.g., the configuration table ).","Although embodiments of the network gateway  and the mobile device  described in  using UDP and HTTP protocols, it should be recognized that other protocols and other protocol stacks can be provided and utilized. Additional details on the design and construction of the network gateway  and the mobile device  are contained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/570,210 entitled \u201cMETHOD AND ARCHITECTURE FOR AN INTERACTIVE TWO-WAY DATA COMMUNICATION NETWORK\u201d by Alain Rossmann which issued into U.S. Pat. No. 5,809,415 on Sep. 15, 1998, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The advantages of the invention are numerous and certain embodiments of the invention can have one or more of the following advantages. One advantage of the invention provides a great deal of flexibility over quality of service provided with respect to network connections. Another advantage of the invention is that the quality of service is able to be controlled by a device manufacturer, a network operator or a user. Still another advantage of the invention is that implementations are easy to manage and configure.","The many features and advantages of the present invention are apparent from the written description and, thus, it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention. Further, since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation as illustrated and described. Hence, all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to as falling within the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be readily understood by the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals designate like structural elements, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 3D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 4A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 7A","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 6"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
