---
title: Hypertext concordance
abstract: A system and method in accordance with an embodiment of the invention addresses the problems of unlinked or sparsely linked documents by linking them using a set of automatically extracted content words, the “index terms.” Upon receiving a list of documents for indexing, the system and method in accordance with an embodiment of the invention automatically selects the terms to be indexed and generates a hypertext concordance (an “HC”). A concordance is an index where each of the indexed terms is listed with surrounding text, i.e., in context. As well, each of the indexed terms in the HC is given a hyperlink, instead of a page number, back to the occurrence of the term in a version of the indexed document. In one embodiment of the invention, the original document that has been indexed is also revised to include hyperlinks from the index terms into the HC.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06907562&OS=06907562&RS=06907562
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 06907562
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 19990726
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["A system and method in accordance with an embodiment of the invention addresses the problems of unlinked or sparsely linked documents by linking them using a set of automatically extracted content words, the \u201cindex terms.\u201d Upon receiving a list of documents for indexing, the system and method in accordance with an embodiment of the invention automatically selects the terms to be indexed and generates a hypertext concordance (an \u201cHC\u201d). A concordance is an index where each of the indexed terms is listed with surrounding text, i.e., in context. As well, each of the indexed terms in the HC is given a hyperlink, instead of a page number, back to the occurrence of the term in a version of the indexed document. In one embodiment of the invention, the original document that has been indexed is also revised to include hyperlinks from the index terms into the HC.","A system and method that allows a user to more readily access the information in documents lacking hyperlinks is disclosed. More specifically, as illustrated in , a document  that has been specified by a user for indexing is input into an HC (a \u201cHypertext Concordance\u201d) generator . The HC generator is implemented in software in one embodiment, although embodiments done in firmware, software, hardware, or any combination thereof are also foreseeable. The HC generator outputs two documents: (1) the HC itself , having the indexed terms listed in concordance format, and (2) a version  of the original document  revised to include links into the HC from the indexed terms. The revised document  is hereafter referred to as the \u201cHC document\u201d or the HCD.\u201d","An example of a concordance listing  for an HC in accordance with the invention is shown in  for the term \u201cconversion agreement.\u201d  shows the term \u201cconversion agreement\u201d at  followed by several lines  of text. Each line of text contains the term \u201cconversion agreement\u201d in context, which in this example is four words to the left of the term and four words to the right (note that in this example, certain punctuation marks are deemed a single word). Each occurrence of the term \u201cconversion agreement\u201d is also hyperlinked into the HCD, so that a user who points to and clicks on a particular occurrence of the term in the concordance listing will instantly be brought to the selected occurrence of the term in the text of the indexed document. Hyperlinks are represented in  by underlining the hyperlinked term, as is commonly done in the art. Of course other methods for designating a hyperlink will also be acceptable, e.g., denoting a hyperlinked term in a different color, etc.","Referring to , in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a user is prompted at  (from a computer display) to enter one or more URLs (uniform resource locators) of websites that are to be indexed and\/or to enter the file names of other electronically stored documents. Although the indexing of websites is often referred to herein, it is to be understood that the concepts described herein will apply equally to non-web page documents, provided that such documents are electronically stored, or if the documents are paper documents, that they are first scanned and undergo optical character recognition (OCR), thereby transferring them into electronic documents. At , the user enters one or more file names or URLs, here designated Filename, Filename, and Filename.","Once the files names or URLs have been specified, the HC Generator  automatically analyzes the documents and extracts the index terms. The index terms can be selected by any of a variety of methods. One method used in an embodiment of the invention is Damerau's method described in Damerau, \u201cGenerating and Evaluating Domain-Oriented Multi-Word Terms From Text,\u201d , Vol. 29, No. 4, pp. 433-447 (Pergamon Press Ltd. 1993), incorporated by reference herein. Using Damerau's method, the terms are automatically selected by comparing their in-document frequency with their frequency in general English, as derived from a reference corpus such as a newspaper text. In many embodiments, both words and two-word phrases are considered. Some embodiments may also consider phrases with more than two words and non-contiguous phrases. The system will compare the relative frequencies of words and phrases in the documents to be indexed (coll) and the relative frequencies of words and phrases in a reference collection (coll), such that \n\n\nwhere f(word, coll) is the frequency of the word j in collection i, and f(coll) is the number of substantive words in collection i. In one embodiment, the reference collection is taken from all issues of The New York Times from 1990, which is a sufficiently broad corpus to model frequencies of words in general English well. The words and phrases in the submitted (input) documents are scored and ranked according to the ratio of the frequency of the words\/phrases in the submitted (input) documents and the frequency of the words\/phrases in the referenced text. The top n terms are selected as the index terms (e.g., n=200), which are generally those terms that occur significantly more often in the documents of interest than in the reference corpus. In many embodiments of the invention, words found in a stop list, which contains common words that are generally without much substance, such as articles, pronouns, etc., are excluded from the ranking.\n","As will be understood by those of skill in the art many other methods of selecting index terms are available. The following is a list of other methodologies known:\n\n","Nonetheless, Damerau's method is often preferable to those listed above because it uses an additional source of information instead of simply looking at the document of interest. Damerau's method can also be applied to very short documents while many of the above-mentioned methods require large collections to be effective.","Referring now to , once the index terms have been extracted and the HC and HCD built (as described more below), a system in accordance with the invention displays a results page to the user. Shown on the results page is a file name  for the HC , and a list  of the resulting HCD files, which have been derived from the files that were originally submitted by the user. In many embodiments, even if more than one file was input by a user, only one HC will be output, although each of the submitted files will have its own HCD.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["106","500","600","6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","106","600","6","601","500"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 7"],"b":["600","106","601","602","604","608","606","608"],"sub":"6 "},"In a similar manner, in an embodiment of the invention, the indexed document is revised to include hyperlinks back into the concordance HC. For instance, clicking on the term \u201cconversion agreement\u201d on the first line of the document displayed in , will bring the user back to the concordance listing , and particularly to line . Nonetheless, some embodiments do not generate an HCD , i.e., a document including hyperlinks back into the HC. In some embodiments, links from the HC simply bring the user into the original, unrevised document to the extent the original document has hyperlink anchors in the appropriate locations.","A summary of all the steps taken in accordance with an embodiment of the invention are described with respect to the flow chart of FIG. . In step , the system receives a listing of documents to be indexed from the user. In step , the system and method in accordance with the invention extracts index terms, for instance, using Damerau's method. All words and word pairs (bi-grams) are considered except for those contained in a stop list. The top n terms are selected according to the likelihood ratio.","In step , a system in accordance with the invention generates the HC . To do so, the system retrieves the context surrounding each index term and generates concordance lines  with hypertext links into the original document or a revised version thereof. In many embodiments of the invention, in step , an HCD is formed, a revised version of the original document that includes hyperlinks from each of the index terms back into the concordance. Of course, the order of the steps listed in  may be varied as would be understood by those of skill in the art.","Hence, a system and method has been disclosed that allows a user to more readily access the information in non-hyperlinked documents, including web pages and other electronically stored documents. The HC is useful for look-up, similar to the traditional use of a book index, but page numbers (and the labor of finding them) are unnecessary since hyperlinks are used. Moreover, because entries of terms are given with context, the user can more easily identify the use of the word he or she is looking for. As well as look-up, the HC is also useful for browsing. The user can use a standard browser to browse the transformed document collection, either starting from the index or from the transformed document.","It should be understood that the particular embodiments described above are only illustrative of the principles of the present invention, and various modifications could be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention will be described with respect to particular embodiments thereof, and reference will be made to the drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0004","num":"0003"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0005","num":"0004"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
