---
title: Method for standardizing the use of ISO 7816 smart cards in conditional access systems
abstract: A conditional access system and method are disclosed allowing the use of a standard smart card. A computing resource configured to run the conditional access protocol has a smart card interface and a software wrapper configured to run on the computing resource coupling the smart card interface to the conditional access protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06975725&OS=06975725&RS=06975725
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 06975725
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20001010
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of the filing date of the Provisional U.S. Patent Application entitled \u201cMETHOD FOR STANDARDIZING THE USE OF ISO 7816 SMART CARDS IN RECEIVERS PERFORMING CONDITIONAL ACCESS\u201d, application No. 60\/197,147, filed Apr. 14, 2000.","The present invention pertains to the field of conditional access mechanisms. More particularly, the present invention relates to standardizing the use of ISO 7816 smart cards in conditional access systems.","In applications, appliances, computer systems, or other systems where data and\/or signals are scrambled, encrypted, or protected, there is often a control mechanism to allow the descrambling, decryption, or decoding of such data and\/or signals. This control mechanism is often referred to as a conditional access (CA) system or module. The CA system may consist of several modules that perform functions. Some of the functions may be performed on a card which may be inserted into a system or slot. One common form factor is that of a smart card, another is Personal Computer Memory Card International Association (PCMCIA). Smart cards have several standards, one is International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 7816. Reference will be made to this specification as ISO 7816. PCMCIA cards have several standards, one is Type 2. Reference to a smart card is to be understood to refer to the ISO 7816 standard unless stated otherwise. Reference to a PCMCIA card is to be understood to refer to the PCMCIA Type 2 standard unless stated otherwise.","There are several standards for conditional access systems. In the U.S., one such standard is the National Renewable Security Standard (NRSS). The NRSS has defined two types of CA modules, a NRSS part A module (NRSS-A) with a smart card form factor, and NRSS Part B (NRSS-B) with a PCMCIA form factor. In the U.S., some other standards are OPENCABLE\u2122 Host Point Of Deployment Interface Specification (POD), and Conditional Access System for Terrestrial Broadcast (ATSC-A70). In Europe, Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB) organization has defined a CA module similar to NRSS Part B called \u201cCommon Interface\u201d (CI). For convenience, we shall refer to any CA protocols with smart card form factors (e.g., NRSS-A) as a \u201cfirst\u201d CA protocol and refer to CA protocols with PCMCIA form factors (e.g., NRSS-B) as a \u201csecond\u201d CA protocol.","One of the challenges facing manufacturers building devices that have conditional access capability is that they want a standardized method for communicating to CA modules. NRSS Part A, which uses the smart card form factor, has technical implementation issues. NRSS part B modules, which are PCMCIA form factor, are expensive, and have some technical issues as well. Devices that may accept a CA module include, but are not limited to, televisions (TVs), video cassette recorders (VCRs), personal video recorders (PVRs), home jukebox players, set top boxes (STB) for terrestrial broadcast, cable, or satellite, etc. Manufacturers want the CA interface standardized so that the devices can be built in a generic way. The NRSS-A CA card is not a typical ISO 7816 smart card, and NRSS-A cards are not readily available.","A device (set top box, TV, VCR, etc.), which has both a CA interface for an ISO 7816 smart card, and a POD module typically has two separate interface protocols. Different CA protocols for different types of CA modules adds to the complexity of the device.","A conditional access system and method are disclosed allowing the use of a standard smart card. A computing resource configured to run the conditional access protocol has a smart card interface and a software wrapper configured to run on the computing resource coupling the smart card interface to the conditional access protocol.","A method and apparatus for using a standard smart card in a conditional access system is described. References will be made to communications, links, pathways, etc., and it is to be understood that what these terms refer to is information being transferred. This information being transferred may be in the form of a signal, a series of signals, data, or streams of data. The actual mechanism for the transfer of the information is not critical to the description or understanding of the present invention and may take the form of wired, wireless, busses, optical, or other transmission medium.","Computing resources may be referred to as well as executing programs, coupling, and routing data and\/or signals in software. What is to be understood is that a computing resource, such as a microprocessor, is executing a series of instructions, which are causing these operations to occur. For example, the routing of signals and\/or data may consist of presenting computing results to a memory location, a stack, an electrical bus structure, etc.","Likewise, reference is made to application programming interfaces (API). It is to be understood that an API is one of several methods to gain access to computing resources. The API may consist of software, hardware, or a combination of hardware and software. For example, a software API may consist of a call routine. An API involving hardware may consist of an interrupt request.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","102","110","130","102","106","106","112","110","114","114","116","108","102","104","102","116","110","104","102","130","110","126","124","124","120","122","120","112","118"]},"An example of an operational sequence would be the host  sending a scrambled data stream  to the descrambler . The descrambler  may then communicate via  to the CPU  a request for a CA code word required for the descrambler  to descramble the scrambled data stream . The CPU  may then communicate via link  the request to the smart card interface , which in turn communicates via link  with the smart card . The smart card  may then communicate back to the smart card interface  via link  the requested information. This information is then communicated via link  to the CPU  and then through pathway  to the descrambler , which then uses the information to descramble the signal. This descrambled signal  then may optionally pass through copy protection . The signal is then communicated from the CA module  through link  to the host  where it may optionally pass through a copy protection .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","230","230","226","224","224","222","220","220","218","212","212","206","214"]},"As can be seen from the prior art as illustrated in  and one embodiment of the present invention as shown in , the functionality of the CA module  in  is being substantially performed by the host  in . Thus, for example, the descrambler function in the prior art, which was performed in a CA module , may in the present invention be performed substantially by the host . Thus, the host may be required to perform replacement functions for some of the functionality that the CA module  in the prior art performed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["310","320","330","310","320","310","310","320","310","320","310","310","320","330","310","320"]},"It is to be understood that the specific implementation of the smart card interface , the software wrapper , and the CA protocol , may all be in software, hardware, or a combination of software and hardware. For example, the CA protocol , and software wrapper  may be software programs executing on a host's resources such as a CPU, memory, non-volatile storage, etc. The smart card interface , may for example, be implemented in hardware and may consist of something as simple as a receptacle for a smart card to plug into. The smart card may be more complicated and consist of, for example, a microprocessor based controller interfaced to a wireless transmitter and receiver for communication with a smart card.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["414","410","418","418","420","420","414","420","414","422","410","420","414","422","410","420","414","416","418","414","422","410","416","418"]},"Information  received from the smart card interface  by the transform functions  may likewise have several destinations. Information  received from the smart card interface  by the transform functions  may be passed straight through from transform functions  as information  to the CA API . Information  received from the smart card interface  by the transform functions  may be transformed locally by the transform functions  and used locally in combination with other transform results and then may be sent as information  to the CA API , or it may be transformed by transform functions  and then sent as information  to the CA API , or it may be sent unaltered as information  to the CA API , or it may be used locally by the transform functions  and not sent on, or a combination of these operations is possible.","The transformation of the information by transform functions  may be via software, hardware, or a combination of hardware and software. For example, a simple hardware transformation may be inverting the polarity of a signal received from the CA API . A simple software transformation may be reformatting a smart card status signal received from the smart card interface  into a format compatible with the CA API . Transform functions  therefore is to be understood to provide those transformation of information, signals, and\/or data such that the transform functions  receives information  from and sends information  to the CA API  such that the CA API  needs no modifications to operate. Likewise, transform functions  is to be understood to provide those transformation of information, signals, and\/or data such that the transform functions  sends information  to and receives information  from the smart card interface  such that the smart card interface  needs no modifications to operate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","504","506","506","507","508","509","510"]},"In the example of CA system  as shown in , resources such as OS , CA , driver API , wrapper , proprietary I\/F , and smart card interface  that are in contact with each other have access to those resources. For example, the OS , CA , driver API , wrapper , proprietary I\/F , and smart card interface  all have access to computing resources . Smart card interface  has access to computing resources , proprietary I\/F , and wrapper .","In one embodiment of , for example, computing resources  may consist of a host computer in an OPENCABLE\u2122 compliant set top box or television. The OS  may be a version of Linux. CA  may be OPENCABLE\u2122 POD, and driver API  may be the PCMCIA API interfacing to OPENCABLE\u2122 POD. Wrapper  may be software, proprietary I\/F  may be legacy support for a smart card, and smart card interface  may be an interface to an ISO 7816 smart card.","Proprietary I\/F  may, but is not limited to, providing support for a smart card interface  that is non-standard, or providing functional capabilities. That is, recall that some functions previously performed by a CA module separate from a host (see , CA module , and host ) may now be performed by the host (see , host ). Thus, the wrapper  by interfacing with the proprietary I\/F  and the CA , may provide support for functions and\/or non-standard interfaces to smart cards. For example, a manufacturer may have developed a system with a proprietary interface to a smart card, yet now wants to use a standard CA protocol. In such a situation, the best approach may be to use some or all of the originally designed functionality rather than totally redesigning the system. Wrapper  may provide the interfacing needed between the proprietary I\/F  and the CA . That is, the manufacturer by using the present invention may couple their smart card proprietary interface to an industry standard conditional access protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","602","602","604","606","608","612","602","610","616","604","606","608","614","604","606","608"]},"While the above embodiment examples illustrate some possible configurations, it is to be understood that one practiced in the art may implement the functions in a variety of ways. For example, the transformation functions that enable a smart card to interface to an existing CA protocol may be implemented by dedicated proprietary software and\/or hardware, or may be standardized as an API. These API's may be viewed as providing replacement functions that are necessary to interface between a standard smart card, such as an ISO 7816 smart card, and a standard CA protocol API, such as the NRSS-B PCMCIA API. The transformation functions may be also be implemented within an integrated circuit (IC), a processor or series of processors executing code, a dedicated controller or controllers, etc. Different CA protocols may be established in the future, which with the proper interfacing will allow the use of a smart card.","Likewise, it is to be understood that references to specifications or standards, such as NRSS-B, ISO 7816, etc., does not imply that the present invention requires a full and complete implementation of the entirety of a referenced specification or standard to be operable. For example, an ISO 7816 smart card interface is a smart card interface that complies substantially with ISO 7816 such that there is a minimum operable state of functionality allowing operation for the intended purpose or purposes.","Thus, a method and apparatus for allowing the use of a standard smart card in a conditional access system have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments, it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. Accordingly, the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example and not limited by the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
