---
title: Digital image retrieval and storage
abstract: The present invention relates to the retrieval and storage of image data captured using a digital image acquisition device such as a still camera, a video camera or a scanning device, and of image data stored on removable storage media such as compact flash, smart and memory stick media. An image retrieval architecture is described such that image data may be retrieved from any digital image acquisition device and/or from removable storage media, and a “one-click” operation is available to minimize an amount of interaction needed to retrieve image data from the digital image acquisition device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07406248&OS=07406248&RS=07406248
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 07406248
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20001128
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to the retrieval and storage of image data captured using a digital image acquisition device such as a still camera, a video camera or a scanning device, and of image data stored on removable storage media such as compact flash, smart and memory stick media. An image retrieval architecture is described such that image data may be retrieved from any digital image acquisition device and\/or from removable storage media, and a \u201cone-click\u201d image upload operation is available to minimize an amount of interaction needed to retrieve image data from the digital image acquisition device.","2. Description of the Related Art","Digital cameras are becoming more popular, particularly as the quality of a captured image begins to approach the quality of analog cameras (e.g., 35MM cameras). However, there are still some drawbacks with digital cameras. For example, a digital camera has limited storage capacity which gives rise to a need to be able to transfer images captured by the digital camera to external storage. In addition, unlike analog images, the procedures for processing images require the user to use some sort of computing equipment (e.g., personal computer, or PC) to retrieve an image in the camera's storage and\/or process a retrieved image.","Typically, a digital camera user must individually retrieve each image saved in the camera's storage for storage on the PC. The PC may be owned by the user or an acquaintance, or the user may make use of one of the photo kiosks located in a publicly-accessible place (e.g., stores, hotels, etc.). Individual selection of each image that is to be uploaded from the camera can be tedious and time consuming, and may be especially undesirable when the images are being uploaded using someone else's PC or a photo kiosk.","Further, a user may wish to upload the image to a server (e.g., an Internet server) such as a photo web server to store and\/or process the image, to generate photo quality prints, or to share the image with other site users. To make use of the photo web server's capabilities, a user must first upload an image to a PC, then log onto the Internet, locate the server, locate the image stored on the PC that is to be uploaded and select an upload operation. The user uses client software (e.g., a browser) that executes on the PC to provide an interface with the photo web server that steps the user through the upload process. Once the user selects the submit button in the interface, the browser initiates a push operation to push the image onto the server. The photo web server receives the uploaded image and stores it on a server.","However, the conventional mechanisms used to upload a digital image have drawbacks. For example, in order to upload an image, the user must own or have access to a PC. In addition, the upload process involves multiple steps to first upload to the PC and then to a server. If the server is too busy to receive the image at the time it is initiated by the user, the user must repeat some or all of the previously-described upload steps. Further, the conventional mechanism assumes that the client PC has sufficient resources to store an image and to execute browser software that is capable of pushing an image from the PC's storage to the server.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,606,365, issued to Maurinus et al., describes a technique for transmitting sets of raw image information along with a camera identification code, or ID, from a Home Interface Control (HIC) such as a Set Top Box (STB) through an interactive television network to an interactive control node. The camera's ID is used to retrieve corrections and processing software for the camera, and the corrections are made to the image data using the camera's correction information and processing software. The correction information and processing software are either provided by the camera's manufacturer or the camera user.","Maurinus indicates that computing equipment that many households already have in the home, an HIC, may be used to upload image data. However, Maurinus identifies many uncertainties with respect to the manner in which the images are to be uploaded, using an HIC, to a server or cable head end (CHE). In fact, according to Maurinus, the configuration of an HIC had not yet been determined and Maurinus could not provide such specifics. In fact, Maurinus speculates that an HIC will likely be based on a powerful microprocessor-based computer. However, in actuality, an HIC, such as that provided by Scientific-American, Inc. and General Instrument Corporation, typically has limited processing resources.","In addition, according to Maurinus, to use the system a user must first register a camera and, as a result, an identification code, or ID, that identifies the camera is associated with the camera's correction information and software for correcting an image using the correction information.","Maurinus is silent with regard to an actual mechanism for uploading images from the camera to the HIC and to the control node. Maurinus is silent with regard to uploading images using an HIC where the HIC may need to be configured for use with multiple, different cameras.","Thus, it would be beneficial to have an image retrieval capability that provides an approach for uploading images, and that may be used with any manufacturer's cameras regardless of whether or not a camera has first been registered with a service provider.","The present invention relates to the retrieval and storage of image data captured using a digital image acquisition device such as a still camera, a video camera or a scanning device, and of image data stored on removable storage media such as compact flash, smart and memory stick media. An image retrieval architecture is described such that image data may be retrieved from any digital image acquisition device and\/or from removable storage media, and a \u201cone-click\u201d operation is available to minimize an amount of interaction needed to retrieve image data from the digital image acquisition device.","In an aspect of the invention, a facility is provided for uploading images directly from a device to a server using upload software that executes on client computing equipment. According to this aspect of the invention, a broadband network such as that used to transmit broadcast (e.g., television) signals to a home. The present invention accommodates an upload bandwidth that may be just a fraction of the downstream, and provides a network centric storage and image manipulation capability.","The client upload software comprises two components, one which remains resident on the client, and another which is loaded when the client detects that a physical connection has been established with a device. The dynamically-loadable client upload software may be retrieved locally or from a server, and is selected based on the identification information of a device that is connected to the client.","The client upload software is configured to interface with driver software executing in the client (PC, STB, HIC, etc.), and interfaces with a server (e.g., a CHE, photo web server, etc.) during an upload operation. The driver software communicates with the device to retrieve digital images stored in the device.","Initially, the client upload software operates to establish a connection (e.g., a streaming connection) with the server. An upload proxy component executing on the server then manages the upload process so that the digital image data is retrieved from the device by the client and transmitted to the server. In effect, the client may act as a temporary buffer between the device and the server during the upload process. The server may postpone an upload if, for example, the server or network is otherwise busy. Once on the server, a digital image is stored in a data store by the upload proxy and may be retrieved for processing (i.e., image editing, printing, etc.).","Advantageously, the upload facility of the present invention allows a user to upload one or more images to a server. The operation appears to the user as a single operation, or step. There is no need for the user to first make a persistent, intermediate copy of each image at the client computing equipment and then initiate an upload of the stored image from the client to the server. Since a temporary buffer, or other storage, is all that is needed for the upload to a server, the client computing equipment needs minimal storage capacity.","Of course, it is possible with the present invention, to allocate memory according to its availability such that the client is able to store a persistent copy which may then be transmitted to the server, or processing in some manner. In so doing, it would be possible to allow the user to disconnect the device when transmission is delayed and before the images are actually uploaded to the server. However, in a case that the client computer has limited storage capacity, it is optionally provided to allow the device to remain connected to the client computer.","Regardless of whether the device remains connected, an image, or images, may be uploaded at a time when the server becomes available. That is, the server may initiate an operation to \u201cpull\u201d the image data at a time determined by the server. In a case that the device remains connected to the client computer, the image data may be retrieved from the device in response to an initiation of a pull operation by the server. Where the data is stored by the client, the persistent copy of the image data is used to transferred to the server.","To further accommodate a client computer's resource constraints or capabilities, the client upload software is preferably split into two components. A resident component and a dynamically-loadable component which is likely to be the larger of the two components. The dynamically-loadable component is initiated when an upload operation is to be performed, and need not be resident when no operation is being performed thereby freeing memory for other uses. In addition, to accommodate different digital image acquisition devices, different dynamically-loadable components may be written, and an appropriate one selected for uploading an image from the device. While a universal dynamically-loadable component may be used with the present invention, components geared for use with one or more specific devices may reduce the size of each dynamically-loadable component and consequently the amount of the client's memory that is needed for the component. It is possible with the present invention to have dynamically-loadable components for each device or a group of devices (e.g., devices from the same manufacturer).","Another aspect of the present invention is directed to a technique of uploading images from a device using a single selection, or click. A user interface is provided that includes a \u201cOne Click Upload\u201d option that is selectable by, for example, a click of a button (e.g., of a mouse, television remote control or other pointing device) when the cursor is positioned on the option. In response to the single click, all of the images that are currently stored on the device are retrieved from the device and stored in an external image database. A unique identifier, or token, is generated which is associated with the stored images, and the token is saved in the device's storage. Thereafter, the images may be retrieved from the external storage using the token stored in the device. That is, the token is retrieved from the device and used to retrieve the associated images from the image database. The images may then displayed in such a way that the user may scroll through them to identify the ones that are to be retained or deleted.","Thus, by using the present invention, the user interaction needed to initially retrieve the images from a digital image acquisition device is minimized, and the browsing and selection of images may be deferred to a more convenient time and\/or setting.","This brief summary has been provided so that the nature of the invention may be understood quickly. A more complete understanding of the invention can be obtained by reference to the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment(s) thereof in connection with the attached drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"As shown in , the above-listed broadcast services may be delivered by value-added service provider systems and network control systems (not shown) located at cable head end (CHE) . Value-added service provider systems include digital satellite distribution systems, applications executing on cable servers (such as special-purpose applications like subscriber service application, content gather applications, etc.) and digital media servers outputting MPEG-2 datastreams. Network control systems provide management and control for the services supported by the broadband network.","Alternatively, services may be delivered from World Wide Web (WWW)  through internet proxy , for example, from internet site . Examples of internet site  include photo service providers, banking, retailing, utilities, and the like.","In either case, the services are delivered to Cable Head End (CHE) , which serves as an interface between the service providers and the rest of the broadband network.","In particular, CHE , which is responsible for providing services to multiple homes (e.g., approximately 500,000 to 1,000,000), is connected via fiber optic cabling to hubs , which are connected to CHE  or other hubs . Each hub  is, in turn, connected to at least one node , also using fiber optic cabling. Coaxial cable is then used to connect each node to Set Top Boxes (STB's) . For instance, the STB  may comprise one of several currently available STB models available such as Scientific Atlanta's Explorer series and General Instrument's DCT-2000 and DCT-5000+ models. While the present invention is described with regard to a STB, it should be apparent that any type of home interface control (HIC) that interfaces with a broadband network such as a digital cable network may be used. Finally, each STB  is connected to television  as well as other devices not shown (e.g., printer). Accordingly, services are delivered from a service provider to CHE , to one or more hubs , to node , to STB  and to television .","It should be noted that, by virtue of the foregoing arrangement, a service infrastructure may be distributed among CHE , hubs , or other facilities. Further, while the present invention is described with reference to a digital cable network of , it should be apparent that any broadband network interconnection may also be used between a client such as STB  and a server such as CHE . For example, it is possible to use a satellite, or other connection, with the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"10"},"Through the software architecture illustrated in , STB  hosts various applications that present to the home user functionality offered by various cable services. Typical applications are a navigator, an interactive program guide, electronic mail and a web browser. Most of these applications are client\/server implementations, where STB  hosts the client software, and CHE  hosts the server software. Communication between client and server over the cable network is facilitated by an operating system executed on STB , and is performed through API's. One example of an API that may be used to communicate between CHE  and STB  is a broadband protocol transport (BPT) which is offered by Canon Information Systems, Inc. of Irvine, Calif. However, it should be apparent that any protocol suitable for use over a broadband network may be used with the present invention As is described herein, CHE  and STB  may communicate using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). Depending on the hardware platform and the operating system, applications may be resident at STB , or can be downloaded from a remote site including servers situated at, or available via, CHE  for execution at STE .","As shown in , software architecture and STB  includes an interface  to hardware, an operating system , an HTML client , resident applications , and other applications . As is described in more detail below, resident applications  includes a resident device module that operates to cause a loadable device module to be loaded. The loadable device module is configured to communicate with CHE  to transfer digital image data and associated information between STE  and CHE .","The operating system  is usually vendor-specific for the STE, and may include operating systems such as PowerTV, WinCE, MicroWare or OpenTV. HTML client  provides a group of independent handlers that can be plugged together in conformity to known plug-in specifications so as to provide ability to handle different types of media such as HTML, GIF, MPEG, HTTP, Java script, etc. The HTML client  is used to allow STB  to render HTML documents to a windows manager for display on the local television receiver. HTML documents may be retrieved from local cache, from in-band and out-of-band broadcast carrousels, VBI streams, HTTP proxy servers located at CHE , or remote HTTP servers accessed by STE  over the internet. In the latter case, documents retrieved from external web servers are filtered by a proxy according to predefined filtering criteria (such as surf watch), which also may convert requested documents into formats supported by the HTML client .","Resident applications  include such applications as the aforementioned resident device module, navigator, interactive program guide, and the like. Applications  and  include a web browser, an e-mail program, loadable device module, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"As part of hardware interface , device driver  provides an interface to device  external to STB  and connected via an interface to STB . Examples of such an interface include a Universal Serial Bus (USB), parallel and a IEEE 1394 interface connection. Device  is, for example, a digital device such as a still or video camera or a scanning device. Alternatively, device  may be a device (e.g., a reader) that is capable of retrieving data stored on a removable storage media such as a compact flash card, smart media or memory stick media, for example. Thus, device  is a digital image storage device that may or may not additionally be able to acquire, or capture, digital image data. Device driver  is configured to send and receive messages to and from device .","Device driver  detects device  when it is plugged into an external interface of STB . Information received by device driver  from device  is forwarded to resident device module . Such information includes type, or identification, information such as manufacturer and product identification information.","As is described in more detail below, resident device module  identifies an appropriate loadable device module  for use in communicating with device  and CHE  to transfer image data and associated information. Where the identified loadable device module  is not available on STB , resident device module  causes loadable device module  to be transferred to STB  and initiated on STB .","Loadable device module  communicates with upload server via a broadband protocol transport (BPT) application programming interface (API)  that interfaces with broadband transport client  and broadband transport server  components executing on STB  and CHE , respectively. Communication channel  is formed over broadband digital cable network and is used to transmit such information as device settings, images and queries, for example. In addition to transmitting image data and associated information, communication channel  may be used to request and receive loadable device module .","Image data received by upload server  is stored in database (or data store) . Requests for stored image data may be received by imaging server . For example, HTTP client  executing on STB  may forward a request (e.g., an Hypertext Markup Language, or HTML, request), via communication channel , for one or more images via HTTP server  to imaging server . In addition, imaging server  may receive an image request from an such internet sites as photo print service provider . Imaging server  retrieves images stored in database  in response to such request.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A to 4C"},"Steps S through S are performed by resident device module  to identify loadable device module  and cause it to be initiated in STB . Loadable device module  performs steps S through S to transfer image data and associated information between STB  and CHE .","Referring to , a determination is made whether a device has been detected. Resident device module  receives a message from device driver  when device  is connected which includes device information received from device . Resident device module  uses the device information to identify the type of device at step S. For example, device  can transmit a manufacturer and model as device information. The device information is forwarded to resident device module  by device driver .","At step S, resident device module  determines whether an appropriate loadable device module  is already resident in memory of STB . If not, processing continues at step S to locate loadable device module  in local storage of STB , or request loadable device module  from another location (e.g., CHE  or a server connected to CHE  via the internet).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["304","302","303","303","302"]},"When device  is detected by device driver , device driver  uses the information received from device  to identify a device owner. Device driver  forwards the device information including device manufacturer and model information to resident device module . Resident device module  identifies an appropriate loadable device module  for use with the connected device  using, for example, a mapping mechanism (e.g., a table) that associates a manufacture, model or both with an instance of loadable device module .","Resident device module  determines whether the identified loadable device module  is already executing in STB . For example, loadable device module  may be loaded at power up, or may have been loaded to service this, or another, connected device . Loadable device module  may be loaded based on a user preference, for example.","If loadable device module  is not executing in STB  but is available from local storage, resident device module  causes loadable device module  from local storage. Otherwise, resident device module  connects to the identified location and requests resident device module . For example, resident device module  connects to CHE  via BPT API  and broadband transport client  to send a request for loadable device module . Upload server  can respond by sending loadable device module  to STB . Where loadable device module  is not available from storage of CHE , CHE  may request loadable device module  from internet site .","CHE  forwards loadable device module  to STB  and resident device module  which causes loadable device module  to begin execution in STB .","Referring again to , loadable device module  identifies at step S an amount of available memory. At step S, a determination is made whether there is sufficient available memory. Loadable device module , may elect to allocate enough memory to temporarily store all of the images that are to be uploaded to CHE  in a case, for example, CHE  is unavailable for an upload operation due to network congestion or CHE  is otherwise busy. Alternatively, loadable device module  may elect to allocate memory for storing some portion of the data so that data may be momentarily buffered when it is retrieved from device  before it is uploaded to CHE . The latter option may be selected where there is a limited amount of memory.","If it is determined by loadable device module , at step S, that there is insufficient available memory, an error condition is raised and processing continues at step S to deallocate memory and terminate loadable device module .","It is determined, at step S, that there is sufficient available memory, processing continues at step S to allocate an amount of memory determined by loadable device module . Processing then continues at step S to determine whether a connection has been established with CHE . In a case such as a broadband digital cable network, a connection established between CHE  and STB  may remain open between transfers. If a connection has already been established, processing continues at step S. If not, processing continues at step S to establish a connection between STB  and CHE .","At step , loadable device module  inquires into the availability of CHE  to receive data transmissions. If it is determined at step S that CHE  is available, processing continues at step S to retrieve the data (e.g., image data) from device  and upload it to CHE . More particularly, loadable device module  retrieves image data and forwards the data along with a request to generate a broadband transport message to broadband transport client  via BPT API . Broadband transport client  transmits a formed message to broadband transport server  via BPT API . The data contained in a received broadband transport message is forwarded by broadband transport server  to upload server .","In addition to transmitting image data, Broadband transport server  and broadband transport client  may communicate with acknowledgments indicating that messages are received without error.","Once all of the image data has been retrieved from device  and transferred to CHE , processing continues at step S to await a reply from CHE  that all of the data has been received successfully. In addition, as is described in more detail below, CHE  may return information associated with the uploaded data (e.g., a identification and\/or storage location) that is to be forwarded to device . Processing continues at step S to determine whether CHE  returned such information. If so, processing continues at step S to send the data received from CHE  to device . Processing then continues at steps S and S to deallocate memory and terminate loadable device module .","If it is determined, at step S, that the server is not ready to receive the data to be uploaded, processing continues at step S to determine whether the data to be retrieved from device  may be stored in memory of STB . Loadable device memory  may determine whether the amount of memory allocated in step S is sufficient to store the image data. If not, loadable device module  may attempt to allocate additional memory. In any case, if there is insufficient memory to store the data, processing continues at step S to display a status to the user. Processing continues at steps S and S to deallocate memory and terminate loadable device module .","Alternatively, where it is undesirable for STB  to store the image data, a user may be given the option to leave device  connected to STB , and wait for CHE  to initiate an upload. In such a case, once CHE  initiates the upload, processing continues at step S to retrieve the data from device  and upload it to CHE .","If it is determined at step S that there sufficient local storage, loadable device module  retrieves the data from device  via device driver  at step S and stores the retrieved data locally. A status (e.g., success or failure) of the data retrieval may be displayed to the user.","In a case that CHE  previously indicated a \u201cnot ready\u201d status (e.g., in a case that CHE  and\/or the network is busy), it notifies STB  when it is ready to receive the data. At step S, loadable device module  awaits the availability of CHE . When a \u201cready\u201d indication is received, processing continues at step S to upload the stored data to CHE . In such a case, the data previously retrieved from device  is forwarded to broadband transport client  to broadband transport server  via BPT API . Alternatively, where device  remains connected to STB , loadable device module  may retrieve the data from device .","Broadband transport server  forwards the uploaded data to upload server . Processing continues at step S to await a status at CHE , forward data received from upload server  to device  and terminate loadable device module  as previously described.","A user interface is provided with the present invention in response to a connection of device  being detected.  provide an example of a user interface according to the present invention.","Referring to , a user is presented with the options, in display , of logging in, or initiating a \u201cone-click\u201d image upload operation. By selecting the \u201cone-click\u201d operation, images may be uploaded from device  using a single selection, or click. The \u201cOne Click\u201d option is selectable by, for example, a click of a button (e.g., of a mouse, television remote control or other pointing device) when the cursor is positioned on, or over, option .","In response to the single click, all of the images that are currently stored on device  are retrieved from the camera and stored in an image database. A unique identifier, or token, is generated which is associated with the stored images, and the token is saved in storage of device . Thereafter, the images may be retrieved from storage using the token stored in device . That is, the token is retrieved from device  and used to retrieve the associated images from storage. The images may then be displayed in such a way that the user may scroll through them to identify the ones that are to be retained or deleted.","For example, referring to , thumbnail images  of the uploaded images may be displayed in display . The user may select some or all of the images for deletion or for storage in a new or existing album using options  through .","Display  of  allows a user to login by entering a user name and password in input fields  and , respectively. Alternatively, it may only be necessary to specify a user name. In either case, a user name may be specified using a keyboard or a pointing device to identify the user name one character at a time, or from a list of displayed user names. A password may be entered using a input device such as a keyboard or pointing device as well.","If a valid user name (and password, if required) is entered, display  of  is displayed which allows a user to get images stored in an album using selection option . In addition, a user may retrieve images uploaded to CHE  via a \u201cone-click\u201d operation by selection option . When option  is selected, a token that is stored in connected device  is retrieved from device  and used to retrieve the uploaded images.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 7A"],"b":["301","701","701","10","304","316","701","702","702","6","310","313","314"]},"As discussed above, communication channel  may be used to upload image data and setting from client  to server , and to return a token for storage by device . Communication channel  may be used to transfer a user interface such as that described above with reference to . In addition, communication channel  may be used to transmit a user's requests for \u201cone-click\u201d uploaded images. Preferably, communication channel  is used to transfer the images to client . HTTP client  receives HTML page definitions from HTTP server , and generates a display (e.g., displays , ,  and ). The HTML page definitions may be provided by HTTP server , imaging server  or both.","Server  generates a token which is associated with the uploaded image data using the settings retrieved from device . The token may be, for example, an identifier associated with device , the user or both. In addition, the token includes an identifier that uniquely identifies the image data uploaded in the current \u201cone-click\u201d operation.","The uploaded image data along with an associated token are then saved to storage in database, or datastore, . The token is transmitted by server  to client . Client  causes the token to be stored in storage of device . Preferably, the token is stored in place of, or as a substitute for, the uploaded image data to which the token is associated thereby freeing storage of device  for other usage (e.g., storage of additional images).","A user may request the image data uploaded via a \u201cone-click\u201d operation. For example, a user may select option  of display . In response to such a selection, client  retrieves the stored token from device . Client  forwards the retrieved token to server . Server  retrieves the images associated with the token from database . The images (e.g., thumbnail images) are sent to client  which displays the images as in display , for example.","Operations including image deletions, image selections for inclusion in an album and\/or album creations are transmitted to server . Server  saves those images selected by the user for inclusion in an album in database  with an association to a selected album.","In this regard, the invention has been described with respect to particular illustrative embodiments. However, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the above-described embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be made by those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A to 4C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"304"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A through 6D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
