---
title: Demand-cast system and bandwidth management for delivery of interactive programming
abstract: One embodiment of the present invention comprises a system that includes a session manager (SM) and a transport stream generator (TSG) within a distribution control center. The SM monitors and controls usage of demand-cast stream bandwidth within the distribution network. The TSG receives information from the SM on each demand-cast stream. The information includes which set top terminals, if any, are currently acquiring the stream. The TSG uses the information to control the demand-cast streams multiplexed into the transport stream for distribution to the set top terminals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07607152&OS=07607152&RS=07607152
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 07607152
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20000329
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS","I. Illustrative Communications Network","II. Example Methods and Topologies","III. Demand-Cast System","V. Example of Interactive Program Guide","VI. Example Implementational Architectures","VII. Messaging Protocol","VIII. Stream Status and Conversions of Status","VIII. Other Technical Aspects"],"p":["The present application is based on U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/178,100, filed Jan. 26, 2000, inventors Sadik Bayrakeri and Donald F. Gordon, and entitled \u201cBANDWIDTH MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES FOR DELIVERY OF INTERACTIVE PROGRAM GUIDE.\u201d The present application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/524,854, filed Mar. 14, 2000, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,127,737, inventors Sadik Bayrakeri, Donald F. Gordon, Edward A. Ludvig, Eugene Gershtein, Jeremy S. Edmonds, John P. Comito, and Alfred Li, and entitled \u201cBANDWIDTH MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES FOR DELIVERY OF INTERACTIVE PROGRAM GUIDE.\u201d","1. Field of the Invention","The invention relates to communications systems in general. More specifically, the invention relates to video communications systems and interactive program guides for video programming.","2. Description of the Background Art","Over the past few years, the television industry has seen a transformation in a variety of techniques by which its programming is distributed to consumers. Cable television systems are doubling or even tripling system bandwidth with the migration to hybrid fiber coax (HFC) cable plant. Customers unwilling to subscribe to local cable systems have switched in high numbers to direct broadcast satellite (DBS) systems. And, a variety of other approaches have been attempted focusing primarily on high bandwidth digital technologies, intelligent two way set top terminals, or other methods of trying to offer service differentiated from standard cable and over the air broadcast systems.","With this increase in bandwidth, the number of programming choices has also increased. Leveraging off the availability of more intelligent set top terminals, several companies such as Starsight Telecast Inc. and TV Guide, Inc. have developed elaborate systems for providing an interactive listing of a vast array of channel offerings, expanded textual information about individual programs, the ability to look forward to plan television viewing as much as several weeks in advance, and the option of automatically programming a VCR to record a future broadcast of a television program.","Unfortunately, the existing program guides have several drawbacks. They tend to require a significant amount of memory, some of them needing upwards of one megabyte of memory at the set top terminal (STT). They are very slow to acquire their current database of programming information when they are turned on for the first time or are subsequently restarted (e.g., a large database may be downloaded to a STT using only a vertical blanking interval (VBI) data insertion technique). Disadvantageously, such slow database acquisition may result in out of date database information or, in the case of a pay per view (PPV) or video on demand (VOD) system, limited scheduling flexibility for the information provider.","The use of compression techniques to reduce the amount of data to be transmitted may increase the speed of transmitting program guide information. In several communications systems, the data to be transmitted is compressed so that the available transmission bandwidth is used more efficiently. For example, the Moving Pictures Experts Group (MPEG) has promulgated several standards relating to digital data delivery systems. The first, known as MPEG-1 refers to ISO\/IEC standards 11172 and is incorporated herein by reference. The second, known as MPEG-2, refers to ISO\/IEC standards 13818 and is also incorporated herein by reference. A compressed digital video system is described in the Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC) digital television standard document A\/53, and is incorporated herein by reference.","The above-referenced standards describe data processing and manipulation techniques that are well suited to the compression and delivery of video, audio and other information using fixed or variable rate digital communications systems. In particular, the above-referenced standards, and other \u201cMPEG-like\u201d standards and techniques, compress, illustratively, video information using intra-frame coding techniques (such as run-length coding, Huffman coding and the like) and inter-frame coding techniques (such as forward and backward predictive coding, motion compensation and the like). Specifically, in the case of video processing systems, MPEG and MPEG-like video processing systems are characterized by prediction-based compression encoding of video frames with or without intra- and\/or inter-frame motion compensation encoding.","However, the MPEG-1 and MPEG-2 standards have, in some instances, very strict elementary stream and transport stream formats, causing usage of extra bandwidth for certain applications. For example, if a number of interactive program guide (IPG) pages were created as video sequences, only limited number of pages could be encoded into a transport stream(s) at a specified bandwidth.","Therefore, it is desirable to provide techniques for more efficiently utilizing a limited and finite bandwidth for transmitting program guide video sequences to set-top terminals.","The present invention provides a system for more efficient utilization of the finite bandwidth available for distribution of interactive program guide (IPG) video sequences. The system utilizes a session manager and a transport stream generator to enable a set top terminal to access an entire array of guide pages from the IPG within the constraints imposed by the limited bandwidth available in the distribution network.","One embodiment of the present invention comprises a system that includes a session manager (SM) and a transport stream generator (TSG) within a distribution control center. The SM monitors and controls usage of demand-cast stream bandwidth within the distribution network. The TSG receives information from the SM on each demand-cast stream. The information includes which set top terminals, if any, are currently acquiring the stream. The TSG uses the information to control the demand-cast streams multiplexed into the transport stream for distribution to the set top terminals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100"]},"The illustrative network  includes one or more head-ends , one or more centers for local neighborhood equipment , a plurality of distribution nodes , and a plurality of subscriber stations . The local neighborhood equipment (LNE)  may be located, for example, at remote hubs of a cable distribution network. The end-user terminals  may comprise, for example, interactive set-top terminals (STT) or other devices with similar interactive functionalities.","In the present application, the demand-cast term is used to refer to the process of managing and delivering content to one or more users depending on user demand for the content.  depicts various methods and topologies for demand-casting interactive program guide (IPG) pages. The various methods\/topologies are given for purposes of edification and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":["200","200"]},"In a first step , a first set of IPG pages to be broadcast are predetermined. The first set of IPG pages may comprise video sequences, for example, for a current time period. For instance, if the current time is 1:07 pm, then the current time period may include programming from 1:00 pm to 2:30 pm, assuming a 90 minute time period.","In a second step , a second set of IPG pages to be broadcast are predetermined. The second set of IPG pages may comprise video sequences, for example, for a prime time period. Such a prime time period is a time period during which a large number of viewers typically watch TV programming. For example, the prime time period may include programming from 6:00 pm to 9:00 pm.","In a third step , bandwidth to broadcast the first and second sets of IPG pages is allocated in the distribution system for that purpose. For example, as described below in more detail, a bandwidth manager (BWM) within a head-end  and\/or local neighborhood equipment  allocates within the in-band network the necessary bandwidth to broadcast the first and second sets of IPG pages to the set-top terminals (STT) . If the first and second sets overlap, then only the non-redundant video sequences need to be broadcast and so only enough bandwidth to broadcast the non-redundant video sequences needs to be allocated. Such a situation may happen, for example, when the current time period is within prime time.","In a fourth step , the IPG pages of the first and second sets are broadcast to set-top terminals (STT)  within the broadcast range. The broadcast range may comprise all terminals  downstream from the head-end  or local neighborhood equipment . Only the non-redundant content needs to be broadcast. The broadcast is performed within the allocated in-band bandwidth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["250","250","200","102","104","100","102","104","106","108"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":["300","300"]},"In a first step , an IPG page is selected to be narrowcast to a group  of terminals . For example, the group of terminals may be a group comprising a high concentration of users with a particular ethnicity or special interest, and the IPG page selected may comprise programming targeted to that ethnic group or special interest group. As another example, the group of terminals may comprise terminals  in a school campus or business, and the IPG page selected may comprise class instruction or other targeted material. The group  may include terminals  in one geographic area or terminals  dispersed among different geographic areas but linked, for example, via a network group address.","In a second step , bandwidth to narrowcast the selected IPG pages is allocated in the distribution system for that purpose. For example, as described below in more detail, a bandwidth manager (BWM) within a head-end  and\/or local neighborhood equipment  allocates within the in-band network the necessary bandwidth to narrowcast the selected IPG page to the group  of terminals . If the requested IPG page is already being broadcast per , then no additional bandwidth for a narrowcast need be allocated.","In a third step , the selected IPG page is narrowcast to the group of terminals . The narrowcast need only be received by terminals  within the group  and does not need to be received by other STTs . The narrowcast is sent downstream from the head-end  or local neighborhood equipment  to the group  of terminals . The narrowcast is performed within the allocated in-band bandwidth. If the requested IPG page is already being broadcast per , then the narrowcast need not be performed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3B"],"b":["350","350","300","102","104","100","102","104","106","108","352"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":["400","400"]},"In a first step , a request for an IPG page is received from a STT . The request is transmitted upstream from the STT  to the HE  or LNE  by way of the communications network . The upstream transmission may be done via an out-of-band network. Alternatively, the upstream transmission may be done via an in-band network. Such a request may comprise, for example, a look ahead request where a user wishes to view programming for a time period ahead of the current time period. For a system where a set or sets of IPG pages are already being broadcast per , the STT  may first check to see whether or not the requested IPG page is already being broadcast before transmitting the request upstream.","In a second step , bandwidth to pointcast the requested IPG page is allocated in the distribution system for that purpose. For example, as described in more detail below, a bandwidth manager (BWM) within a head-end  and\/or local neighborhood equipment  may allocate within the in-band network the necessary bandwidth to pointcast the requested IPG page to the requesting STT . Such allocation is performed if sufficient system resources are available to establish such a session. Moreover, if the requested IPG page is already being broadcast per , then no additional bandwidth for a pointcast need be allocated.","In a third step , the requested IPG page is pointcast to the requesting set-top terminal (STT) . The pointcast need only be received by the requesting STT  and does not need to be received by other STTs . The pointcast is sent downstream from the head-end  or local neighborhood equipment  to the requesting STT . The pointcast is performed within the allocated in-band bandwidth. If the requested IPG page is already being broadcast per , then the pointcast need not be performed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B"],"b":["450","450","400","108","102","104","100","102","104","108","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["500","500"]},"In a first step , a request for an IPG page is received from a requesting STT . The request is transmitted upstream from the requesting STT  to the HE  or LNE  by way of the communications network . The upstream transmission may be done via an out-of-band network. Alternatively, the upstream transmission may be done via an in-band network. Such a request may comprise, for example, a look ahead request where a user wishes to view available special interest programming for a time period ahead of the current time period. For a system where a set or sets of IPG pages are already being broadcast per , the requesting STT  may first check to see whether or not the requested IPG page is already being broadcast before transmitting the request upstream.","In a second step , bandwidth to narrowcast the requested IPG page is allocated in the distribution system for that purpose. For example, as described below in relation to , a bandwidth manager (BWM) within a head-end  and\/or local neighborhood equipment  may allocate within the in-band network the necessary bandwidth to narrowcast the requested IPG page to a group  of terminals which includes the requesting STT . Such allocation is performed if sufficient system resources are available to establish such a session. If the requested IPG page is already being broadcast per , then no additional bandwidth for a pointcast need be allocated. The group  may include terminals  in one geographic area or terminals  dispersed among different geographic areas but linked, for example, via a network group address.","In a third step , the requested IPG page is narrowcast to the group  of terminals . The narrowcast need only be received by terminals  within the group  and does not need to be received by other STTs . The narrowcast is sent downstream from the head-end  or local neighborhood equipment  to the group  of terminals . The narrowcast is performed within the allocated in-band bandwidth. If the requested IPG page is already being broadcast per , then the narrowcast need not be performed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B"],"b":["550","550","500","552","102","104","100","102","104","554","108","100"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 6A","b":["600","600"]},"In a first step , a request for an IPG page is received from a first STT . The request is transmitted upstream from the first STT  to the HE  or LNE  by way of the communications network . The upstream transmission may be done via an out-of-band network. Alternatively, the upstream transmission may be done via an in-band network. Such a request may comprise, for example, a look ahead request where a user wishes to view programming for a time period ahead of the current time period. For a system where a set or sets of IPG pages are already being broadcast per , the first STT  may first check to see whether or not the requested IPG page is already being broadcast before transmitting the request upstream.","In a second step , a stream  assigned to pointcast the requested IPG page may be allocated in the distribution system for that purpose. Such allocation is performed if sufficient system resources are available to establish such a session. For example, as described below in more detail, a bandwidth manager (BWM) within a head-end  and\/or local neighborhood equipment  may determine that sufficient resources are available to assign the stream  to pointcast the requested IPG page to the first STT . The stream assignment may be made, for example, by assigning a particular value to the program identifier (PID) for the stream . If the requested IPG page is already being broadcast per , then the stream assignment need not be made.","In a third step , the requested IPG page is pointcast to the first STT  via the assigned stream . This may be done by transmitting packets that are identified by the particular PID value and contain the video sequence of the requested IPG page. The pointcast need only be received by the first STT  and does not need to be received by other STTs . The pointcast is sent downstream from the head-end  or local neighborhood equipment  to the first STT . If the requested IPG page is already being broadcast per , then the pointcast need not be performed.","In a fourth step , a request for an IPG page is received from a second STT , where the IPG page requested is the same IPG page as the one requested by the first STT  in the first step . Like the first request, this second request is transmitted upstream from the second STT  to the HE  or LNE  by way of the communications network  via either an out-of-band network or via an in-band network. The second STT  may be either in the same geographic area as the first STT , or the second STT  may be in a different geographic area as the first STT .","Either way, in a fifth step , the identifier (e.g., PID value) for the stream  is transmitted from the HE  or LNE  to the second STT . This enables the next step  to occur without use of additional PIDs or additional network bandwidth.","Finally, in a sixth step , the second STT  receives the requested IPG page via the same stream  as that which delivers the IPG page to the first STT . This may be done, for example, by setting the second STT  to decode and present packets that are identified by the particular PID value for the stream . Such packets are the ones which contain the video sequence of the requested IPG page. In this manner, \u201csharing\u201d of the stream  occurs, changing the previously \u201csingle\u201d pointcast to a \u201cdouble\u201d pointcast.","Similarly, additional terminals  may \u201cshare\u201d the pointcast by requesting the same IPG page and receiving it via the same stream . In this way, any number of terminals  may share the pointcast. This results in more efficient use of limited bandwidth.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"],"b":["650","650","600","652","102","104","100","656","102","104","652","654","102","104","100","656","102","104","654","654","656"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 6C","b":["660","600","660"]},"In a first step , an STT finishes viewing a stream which transmits an IPG page. In the example discussed above with respect to , the STT may be either the first STT  or the second STT . In general, the STT may be any of multiple terminals which are sharing the stream, or the STT may be the last terminal to be viewing a stream which was previously shared.","In a second step , the HE  or LNE  is notified that the STT has finished viewing the stream. Such a notification occurs by the STT sending a communication upstream to the HE  or LNE  by way of an out-of-band or in-band network.","In a third step , a determination is made as to whether or not that stream is still being viewed by one or more STTs. As described in more detail below, this determination is done within the HE  or LNE  and may be done by a bandwidth manager in conjunction with a session manager.","In a fourth step , if one or more STTs are still viewing that stream, then transmission of the stream by the HE  or LNE  continues. Such transmission is typically performed by an in-band delivery system.","Finally, in a fifth step , if no more STTs are still viewing that stream, then the stream is \u201ctorn down\u201d so that it is no longer transmitted and no longer takes up network bandwidth. The torn down stream is made available for reassignment to reuse the bandwidth to transmit a different pointcast, narrowcast, or broadcast.","1. Guide Page Usage Frequency Distribution","Prerequisite assumptions need to be made regarding the usage frequency distribution of guide pages. Certain pages in the guide page matrix, such as those in the current time slot and adjacent time slots (near look-ahead) are likely to be accessed frequently by STT users. Similarly, other guide pages, as in the case of \u201cfar look-ahead\u201d pages, are likely to be accessed less frequently. This characteristic, inherent in guide page usage, lends the IPG well to a demand-cast model described in this document. Access to all the guide pages in the guide page matrix can be made possible by sending in the transport a combination of constantly broadcast guide pages for those pages that are most frequently accessed, and temporarily broadcast or demand-cast guide pages for those less frequently accessed. The technique consists in sending current and near look-ahead pages in broadcast fashion and sending far look-ahead pages in demand-cast fashion.","2. Demand-Cast Overview","A demand-cast IPG system is a two-way system requiring communication between STT users on the cable network and the head-end via a back-channel. Demand-cast pages are inserted in the transport stream for temporary broadcast based on access demand generated by STT users on the cable network. When a request for a guide page is made by a particular STT, two things can happen. If the page is already in the IPG broadcast, the STT simply acquires the corresponding stream. If the page is not in the broadcast, the STT requests from the head-end that the corresponding stream be inserted in the IPG multiplex. The head-end replaces the least frequently accessed and not currently accessed stream in the IPG multiplex with the newly requested page. When a STT no longer accesses a guide page, it informs the head-end that it has released it. When accessing a demand-cast page, the IPG STT application also times-out following a certain delay of inactivity (i.e. 2 minutes) on the part of the user. In this case it also informs the head-end that it has released the page. Informing the head-end when demand-cast pages become released ensures that non-accessed demand-cast pages become available for substitution. When a STT requests that a new demand-cast page be inserted into the IPG multiplex, if there is no slot available in the IPG multiplex, the head-end refuses to insert a newly requested guide page resulting in a blockage. All statistical systems are susceptible to blockage if loaded with too many users or in the case of rare chaotic episodes. The advantage of the demand-cast model is that if a particular page is susceptible to intensive access, such as in the case of a page listing a major sports event, it only needs to be inserted once into the transport stream. It is readily accessible by multiple STTs without consuming additional bandwidth.","3. Latency in Broadcast Vs. Demand-Cast","Access to guide pages with low latency is an important feature in the IPG. Constantly broadcast pages offer the lowest latency access, whereas demand-cast pages may be delayed if not yet in the transport stream. Frequently accessed pages, such as those in the current time slot and near look-ahead time slots, and perhaps prime-time slots need to be broadcast constantly so as to remain accessible with the minimum of latency. Less frequently accessed far look-ahead pages can be demand-cast.","4. System Description",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","702","704"]},"Both the SM  and the TSG  may be, for example, co-located at a distribution center. The distribution center may comprise, for example, a headend  in the illustrative distribution system . Alternatively, the SM  and the TSG  may be at different locations. For example, the SM  may be at a headend , and the TSG  may be at local neighborhood equipment  in the illustrative distribution system .","Both the SM  and the TSG  are coupled to a plurality of terminals  via a distribution network. The distribution network may comprise, for example, the cable distribution network  illustrated in . In that example, the terminals  would comprise set-top terminals  or the equivalent functionality integrated into a computer system or advanced television. Alternatively, for example, the distribution network may comprise a satellite communications system or another type of communications system (telephonic, wireless, etc.).","One terminal  and its links to the SM  and the TSG  are illustrated in . In the particular embodiment shown in , the terminal  receives in-band communications from the TSG  and sends out-of-band (OOB) communications to the SM . In an alternative embodiment, the communications to the SM  may comprise upstream in-band communications.","The session manager (SM)  may comprise, in one embodiment, a computer system residing at a cable headend . The computer system may comprise, for example, a computer server running a version of the UNIX (or alternatively Windows) operating system. The computer system may receive out-of-band communications from the terminals  by way of a connection to the network controller. For example, the connection may comprise an Ethernet connection, and the network controller may comprise one from General Instruments (now part of Motorola) or another supplier. The computer system also communicates with and controls the transport stream generator  by way of a network connection such as an Ethernet connection.","The SM  manages delivery of the IPG to terminals  on multiple cable nodes each served by a separate IPG multiplexed transport stream generated at a TSG . The SM  also monitors demand-cast stream usage by the terminals . It tracks IPG demand-cast streams that are acquired by at least one terminal  by maintaining a dynamic list of terminals  using each stream. This is done for each IPG multiplexed transport stream managed by the SM . The SM  also accepts messages from terminals  indicating that they have acquired, released, or requested demand-cast streams. A terminal  that has acquired a demand-cast stream is registered to the stream, and a terminal  that has released a demand-cast stream is removed from the registry for the stream. The SM  informs the corresponding TSG  once there is no longer any terminals  registered to a particular demand-cast stream. It also informs the TSG  when a terminal  requests a demand-cast stream. In one embodiment, the SM  may time-out acquisition of a stream by any terminal  if the terminal  has not released the stream within a period of time (for example, a few minutes). The time-out may be implemented by removing the particular terminal  from the registry for the stream.","The transport stream generator (TSG)  may comprise, in one embodiment, a computer system residing at a cable headend . The computer system may comprise, for example, a computer server running a version of the Windows (or alternatively UNIX) operating system. Alternatively, the TSG  may be located separately from the SM , for example, at local neighborhood equipment . Each TSG  is coupled to a SM , for example, via an Ethernet network. The TSG  may generate one or more IPG multiplexed transport stream, each broadcast to a respective node in the distribution system.","In one embodiment, the IPG multiplexed transport stream comprises a MPEG transport stream. In this case, the TSG  may communicate with the terminals  by way of tables in the private section of the MPEG transport stream. Such a table may include a list of available demand-cast streams, along with the address of the source TSG  and information to identify the particular IPG multiplexed transport stream to which the table belongs.","The TSG  manages each IPG multiplexed transport stream which it generates. The TSG  receives information from the SM  indicating whether each demand-cast stream being served is currently being acquired by any terminal  or not. In other words, the TSG  is informed by the SM  when there is no longer any terminals  acquiring a demand-cast stream.","In one embodiment, the TSG  maintains a status for each variable demand-cast stream being served. The status is adjusted upon receipt by the TSG  of certain messages from the SM . The basic states for the status comprise an \u201cacquired\u201d state which denotes that the demand-cast stream is in use by one or more terminals , and a \u201creleased\u201d state which denotes that that the demand-cast stream is not in use by any terminal . The TSG  keeps serving \u201cacquired\u201d demand-cast streams by multiplexing them into appropriate transport streams and replaces \u201creleased\u201d demand-cast streams with new demand-cast streams upon receipt of a request message from the SM . In a preferred embodiment, the TSG  also keeps track of the order in which the streams are released, so that the oldest released stream may be used as the preferred candidate for replacement.","If all the demand-cast streams in a particular IPG multiplexed transport stream are \u201cacquired,\u201d then a new stream cannot be inserted, and so the TSG  refuses the request. In such a case, a message indicating such a refusal may be sent to the SM  and\/or the requesting terminal .","In one embodiment, the terminal  comprises a set-top terminal (STT) for use by a service subscriber. The STT may comprise an embedded system which includes a tuner, a demultiplexer, and a decoder. The STT drives the subscriber's display unit or TV set, and it may be connected to the TSG  by way of a RF feed from a cable distribution network. The IPG content may be received from a particular IPG multiplexed transport stream on a specific QAM carrier signal. In one embodiment, the IPG multiplexed transport stream may comprise an ensemble of elementary MPEG video streams, each representing a portion of the guide.","In a preferred embodiment, the terminal  includes IPG client software application which is resident at the terminal . The IPG client application is responsible for presenting the IPG to the subscriber. The IPG client application demultiplexes and decodes IPG pages requested by the user. If a requested page is already being received via the IPG multiplexed transport stream, then the IPG client application acquires the stream immediately and sends a message to the SM  that it has acquired the stream. If the requested page is not in the IPG multiplexed transport stream, then the IPG client application sends a request message to the SM . Subsequently, the IPG client application acquires the stream once it is received. In addition, when a stream is no longer being acquired, the IPG client application sends a release message to the SM . In one embodiment, if there is no remote control or other activity by the user for a period of time (for example, a few minutes), then the IPG client application times-out the acquisition. The time-out may be accomplished, for example, by sending a release message to the SM  and acquiring a broadcast stream instead.","5. Description Per Major Module","The demand-cast system consists of three major subsystems: the set top terminal (STT); the session manager (SM); and the transport stream generator (TSG.) A description of each subsystem follows.","A. STT (Set-Top Terminal)","The set top terminal is the end-user or cable service subscriber tuner\/demultiplexer\/decoder and embedded system. Currently, the STT used in initial pilot deployments is the General Instruments DCT-2000. It is connected to the cable operator RF feed. It drives the subscribers display unit or TV set. The IPG content is in the IPG transport stream (or multiplex) located on a specific QAM carrier. The IPG multiplex contains an ensemble of elementary MPEG video streams each representing portions of the guide. Some of these streams are guide grid pages. The STT receives messages from the head-end via tables in the private section of the IPG transport stream (in-band messaging.) The STT sends messages to the head-end via the out-of-band return path.","The IPG Application is the set top terminal resident program responsible for presenting the DIVA Interactive Program Guide to the subscriber. The IPG application demultiplexes and decodes IPG pages requested by the user. If a particular page is in the IPG transport stream, the STT acquires the stream immediately and informs the SM that it has requested it. If the page is not in the multiplex, the STT also sends a message to the SM that it has requested it. Then it acquires the stream once it's in the multiplex. When the STT no longer is acquiring a guide stream, it informs the SM that it has released it.","If the STT is on a demand-cast stream for more than 2 minutes without any remote control activity, it times-out. It acquires a broadcast stream instead and informs the SM that it has released the demand-cast stream.","B. SM (Session Manager)","The session manager is a computer residing at the cable head-end. Currently, the SM is a SPARC Station running Solaris. It is connected via Ethernet to the server side of the General Instruments network controller (NC) and is the receiver for OB return path messages originating from STTs. The SM can handle STTs on multiple cable nodes each served by a separate IPG multiplex. The SM communicates and controls the TSGs via Ethernet. The TSGs generate the IPG transport streams.","The SM manages one or multiple cable networks and monitors demand-cast stream usage. It tracks IPG demand-cast streams that are acquired by at least one STT maintaining a dynamic list of STTs that are using them. This is done for each multiplex managed by the SM. The SM accepts messages from STTs indicating that they have requested or released demand-cast streams. A STT that has acquired a demand-cast stream is registered to the stream and a STT that has released a demand-cast stream is removed from the streams registry. The SM informs the TSG once there are no longer any STTs on a particular demand-cast stream. It also informs the TSG when a STT requests a demand-cast stream.","The SM times-out any STT from a demand-cast stream if the box has not released the stream within a few minutes. It does this by removing it from the demand-cast stream's registry.","C. TSG (Transport Stream Generator)","The transport stream generator is a computer residing at the cable head-end. Currently, the TSG is a PCI WinNT system. It is connected via Ethernet to the SM controlling it. The TSG produces one or more IPG transport streams each broadcast to their respective nodes. The TSG communicates with the STTs by way of tables in the private section of the IPG transport streams. The table contains the list of available demand-cast streams along with the IP address of the source TSG (its IP address) and the channel number of the IPG multiplex. (which multiplex it is in the TSG)","The TSG manages the transport stream for each IPG multiplex it generates. It receives information from the SM on each demand-cast stream indicating whether the stream is currently acquired by any STT or released by all STTs. The TSG is informed by the SM when there is no longer any STT on a demand-cast stream. The TSG is informed by the SM when a STT requests a demand-cast stream. The TSG maintains status for all the demand-cast streams in each multiplex. It adjusts the status for each stream for which it receives a message from the SM. The basic status is \u2018acquired\u2019 for streams in use by one or more STTs or \u2018released\u2019 for streams that are not in use by any STT. The TSG keeps \u2018acquired\u2019 streams in its multiplexes and replaces \u2018released\u2019 streams with new demand-cast streams upon request. It also keeps track of which are the few oldest \u2018released\u2019 stream. The best candidate for replacement is always the oldest \u2018released\u2019 stream. If all the demand-cast streams in a multiplex are \u2018acquired\u2019 then a new stream can not be inserted and the TSG refuses the request.","An embodiment of an interactive program guide in accordance with the present invention is described below. The embodiment is described for purposes of illustration and is not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0115"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"]},"In such a system, when a request for a guide page is made by a particular terminal, either of two scenarios can occur. First, if the page is already in the IPG broadcast, then the terminal simply acquires the stream with the page from the broadcast. Second, if the page is not in the broadcast, then the terminal transmits a request for the page to the head-end. The head-end may then fulfill the request by replacing the least frequently accessed and not currently accessed stream being transmitted downstream with a stream containing the requested page.","Subsequently, the terminal will end its access of the guide page. This may occur because the user has instructed the terminal to view a different page. Alternatively, this may occur because of a time-out due to inactivity over a period of time (for example, 2 minutes). In any case, when the terminal is no longer accessing the guide page, then the terminal transmits a message to the head-end which indicates that the terminal has released the corresponding stream. Informing the head-end when variably demand-cast pages become released ensures that non-accessed demand-cast pages become available for substitution as described above.","One advantage of the preferred embodiment of the present invention is that, if a particular page is intensively accessed (such as a page listing a major sports event), then the system needs to insert the particular page only once into the transport stream. Once inserted, the page is readily accessible by multiple terminals without consuming additional bandwidth. Other systems would be more susceptible to blockage. Blockage would occur, for example, when a newly requested page cannot be inserted into the transport stream because there is no available bandwidth within the transport stream.","An IPG delivery system in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention is a two-way system which is capable of two-way communications between set top terminals on the cable network and the equipment in the cable head-end. For example, communications may be transmitted from the terminals to the head-end via a back-channel, and content may be transmitted from the head-end to the terminals by insertion into a transport stream.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0120"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","905","905","905","910","1","910","8","941","941","920","915","950","931","939","934","932","935","936","937","938","933","931","934"]},"In a system, illustratively, comprising 80 channels of information, the channels are displayed in 8-channel groups having associated with them three hour time slots. In this organization, it is necessary to provide 10 video PIDs to carry the present-time channel\/time\/title information, one or more audio PID to carry the audio barker and\/or one or more data PIED (or other data transport method) to carry the program description data, overlay data and the like. To fully broadcast interactive program information up to 24 hours in advance, it is necessary to provide 160 (10*24\/1.5) video PIDS, along with one or more audio and, optionally, one or more data PIDs. The amount of time provided for in broadcast video PIDs for the given channel groups comprises the time depth of the program guide, while the number of channels available through the guide (compared to the number of channels in the system) provides the channel depth of the program guide. In a system providing only half of the available channels via broadcast video PIDs, the channel depth is said to be 50%. In a system providing 12 hours of time slot \u201clook-ahead,\u201d the time depth is said to be 12 hours. In a system providing 16 hours of time slot \u201clook-ahead\u201d and 4 hours of time slot \u201clook-back,\u201d the time depth is said to be +16\/\u22124 hours.","The video streams representing the IPG are carried in a single transport stream or multiple transport streams, within the form of a single or multi-programs as discussed previously in this invention. A user desiring to view the next 1.5 hour time interval (e.g., 9:30-11:00) may activate a \u201cscroll right\u201d object (or move the joystick to the right when a program within program grid  occupies the final displayed time interval). Such activation results in the controller of the STT noting that a new time interval is desired. The video stream corresponding to the new time interval is then decoded and displayed. If the corresponding video stream is within the same transport stream (i.e., a new PID), then the stream is immediately decoded and presented. If the corresponding video stream is within a different transport stream, then the related transport stream is extracted from the broadcast stream and the related video stream is decoded and presented. If the corresponding transport stream is within a different broadcast stream, then the related broadcast stream is tuned, the corresponding transport stream is extracted, and the desired video stream is decoded and presented.","A user interaction resulting in a prior time interval or a different set of channels results in the retrieval and presentation of a related video stream. If the related video stream is not part of the broadcast video streams, then a pointcast session, for example, may be initiated as described above in relation to . For this purpose, the STT sends a request to the head end via the back channel requesting a particular stream. The head end then processes the request, retrieves the related stream from the information server, incorporates the stream within a transport stream as a video PID (preferably, the transport stream currently being tuned\/selected by the STT) and informs the STT which PID should be received, and from which transport stream it should be demultiplexed. The STT then retrieves the related video PID. In the case of the video PID being within a different transport stream, the STT first demultiplexes the corresponding transport stream (possibly tuning a different QAM stream within the forward channel).","Normally, upon completion of the viewing of the desired stream, the STT indicates to the head end that it no longer needs the stream, whereupon the head end tears down the pointcast session. The viewer is then returned to the broadcast stream from which the pointcast session was launched. However, as described above in relation to , B, and C, the method for \u201csharing\u201d pointcasts may avoid the need to tear down the pointcast session if another STT is still utilizing the pointcast. In addition, the above described pointcast sharing technique more efficiently utilizes the network bandwidth allocated to pointcasts.","Now consider the difference in latencies between push demand-casts and pull demand-casts. Access to IPG pages with low latency is a desirable feature in providing a program guide. A system which only pushes IPG pages would offer potentially the lowest latency access, whereas a system which only pulls pages would incur significant delays in accessing each page.","In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, frequently accessed IPG pages such as those in the current time slot and near look-ahead time slots, and perhaps prime-time slots would be push demand-cast constantly so as to remain accessible with low latency. Less frequently accessed far look-ahead pages would be pull demand-cast.","The first through fourth ( through ) implementational architectures described below are illustrative implementational architectures which may be used to implement the present invention. They are not meant to limit the present invention to those specific embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0128"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1000","1002","1004","1006","102","1000"]},"The head-end  is coupled to a multitude of STTs  by way of both an in-band network and an out-of-band (OOB) network. The head-end  includes various components which are coupled together and interact with each other. The head-end  illustrated includes an advertising\/html content source , an IPG content source , a compositor , an encoder , a processor , a multiplexor , an encryptor , an in-band delivery system , a controller , a session manager , an access manager , a bandwidth manager , and out-of-band (OOB) equipment .","Note that the session manager  of  encompasses the functionality of multiple components of , including the session manager  and the bandwidth manager . Also, note that the transport stream generator  of  encompasses the functionality of multiple components of , including the processor  and the mux .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0131"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1100","1100","1000","1100","104","1102","1100"]},"The LNE  is coupled to the HE  by way of an in-band network and an OOB messaging system. The LNE  is also coupled to a multitude of STTs  by way of a local in-band network. The LNE  includes various components which are coupled together and interact with each other. The type of components in the LNE  are typically a subset of the type of components in the HE . The LNE  illustrated includes a processor , a multiplexor , an encryptor , a local delivery system , a controller , a session manager (SM) , an access manager (AM) , and a bandwidth manager (BWM) .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0135","num":"0133"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1200","1200","1202","1204","1206","1208","1210","1238","1208","1200"]},"The local IPG center  generates guide page user interface (UI) screens and periodically sends the UI screens to an IPG server  at the headend . MSO\/third party IPG add-on content  may be provided to the IPG server  from MSO equipment within the headend . For example, the add-on content may include real-time advertisement video or HTML pages for electronic commerce.","The IPG server  composes (C), encodes (E), processes (P), multiplexes (M), and modulates (QAM) the IPG content (guide plus add-on content) and transmits it to a combiner . The combiner  combines the IPG content with broadcast TV, premium content (e.g., HBO), pay-per-view (PPV), and other content from a multiple service operator (MSO) content delivery system . The combined content is then broadcast to the STTs  via an in-band distribution network .","Upon viewer tuning of the STT  to the IPG channel, an IPG application  at the STT  processes the IPG stream and provides the IPG via an application programming interface (API)  to a \u201cnative\u201d application  running on the STT . The native application  decodes and presents the IPG to the viewer.","In one embodiment; the TV program guide for a current time period (1.5 hours) is broadcast to viewers. In addition, two weeks of lookahead TV programming may be delivered to viewers on demand via demand-cast. Upon a view action of moving a cursor to a lookahead time interval, the STT  sends a request via a backchannel to a session manager (SM)  [for example, via an OOB channel to a reverse path demodulator (RPD), then to a network controller (NC), then to the SM ]. The SM  then causes the IPG server  to multiplex the requested IPG page into the IPG stream.","The SM  also interacts with a subscription\/billing interface  in the VOD system  to coordinate access to VOD services from a link in the IPG user interface (UI). The UI also provides for access to premium content and pay-per-view purchasing by interacting through a two-way interface to a MSO customer management system (CMS)  and digital access controller (DAC)  in the service center . The DAC  generates digital encryption-related keys.","The implementational architecture  also includes a bandwidth manager (BWM) . As described above, the BWM  provides techniques for more efficient utilization of the finite bandwidth available for distribution of the IPG.","Note that the session manager  of  encompasses the functionality of multiple components of , including the session manager  and the bandwidth manager . Also, note that the transport stream generator  of  encompasses the functionality of multiple components of , including the processor (P) and the multiplexer (M).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0141"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 12"],"b":["1300","1300","1200","1300"]},"The fourth implementational architecture  differs from the third implementational architecture  primarily in that some of the equipment is distributed from the headend  to a plurality of hubs  in the distribution system. In particular, the combiner  is moved from the headend  to each of the hubs . In addition, the processor (P), multiplexer (M), and modulator (QAM) are moved from the headend  to each of the hubs . Thus, the functionality of the TSG  is transferred to the hubs .","Returning attention to the system  of , the following describes a messaging protocol for communicating between the major components of the system . The messaging protocol is described in relation to . Although a specific messaging protocol is described below, the present invention is not meant to be limited to that specific protocol.","First, the \u201csource\u201d transport stream generator (TSG)  communicates to a terminal  via, for example, a one-way in-band channel. The communication may be, for example, in the form of a \u201cdemand-cast index table\u201d within a private section of the IPG MPEG transport stream.  depicts an embodiment for the content of the demand-cast index table. The content may include: (a) a table version number (which increments when the table content changes); (b) a list of available demand-cast streams; (c) an internet protocol (IP) address for the source TSG; (d) a MUX channel number within the source TSG, and (e) a time of day and day of week.","Second, the terminal  communicates with the session manager (SM)  via, for example, a one-way out-of-band return path. The return path may be implemented, for example, using a user datagram protocol\/internet protocol (UDP\/IP) service to connect the terminal  to a network controller (NC) at the SM .  depicts one embodiment for the contents of the messages sent from the terminal  to the SM . The message content as shown includes: (a) a demand-cast stream identification; (b) the terminal's identification; (c) the IP address of the source TSG; (d) the MUX channel number within the source TSG; and (e) the message information itself. The message information may indicate: (1) an acquisition of the demand-cast stream by the terminal ; (2) a release of the demand-cast stream by the terminal ; or (3) a request for the demand-cast stream by the terminal .","Third, the SM  communicates with the source TSG  via, for example, a two-way communications channel. The two-way communications channel may comprise, for example, a TCP\/IP connection over an Ethernet network.  depicts one embodiment for the contents of the messages sent from the SM  to the TSG . The message content as shown includes: (a) the demand-cast stream identification; (b) the MUX channel number within the source TSG; and (c) a message\/command from a set of messages\/commands. The set of messages\/commands include: (1) demand-cast stream released (no longer acquired by any terminal); (2) demand-cast stream requested; and (3) a reset command.","Messages from the SM  to the TSG  may be acknowledged by the TSG .  depicts one embodiment for the contents of the acknowledgement messages sent by the TSG  back to the SM . An acknowledgement message as shown includes: (a) the demand-cast stream ID; (b) the MUX channel number; (c) the TSG's address; and (d) the acknowledgement itself. The acknowledgement may convey acknowledgement of: (1) release of the demand-cast stream; (2) request for the demand-cast stream; or (3) reset of the TSG .","The following relate to stream status and conversions of status in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Although a specific embodiment of stream status and conversions of status is described below, the present invention is not meant to be limited to that specific embodiment.","1. Stream Status within IPG Multiplex","The TSG  models bandwidth usage for each IGP multiplexed transport stream that it is managing. Each demand-cast stream within each transport stream may be either active or inactive. Active streams are currently being multiplexed into the transport stream. Inactive streams are not currently being multiplexed into the transport stream.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0151"},"figref":"FIG. 18","b":"704","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0001-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0002","list-style":"none"},"li":["1) \u2018active\u2019 streams are in the IPG multiplex\n        \n        ","2) \u2018inactive\u2019 demand-cast streams are not in the IPG multiplex. They are not referenced in the demand-cast index table. They may be inserted in the multiplex."]}}}},"Note that the TSG may remove all the \u2018passive\u2019 demand-cast streams from their respective IPG multiplexes and replace them with null packets. It is however advantageous to leave \u2018passive\u2019 demand-cast streams in the multiplex because if a STT attempts to acquire it, latency will be minimized.","2. Conversions of Status","The TSG receives messages from the SM. Messages received from the SM are:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0005-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0006","list-style":"none"},"li":["1) \u201crequest demand-cast stream\u201d","2) \u201crelease demand-cast stream\u201d The \u201crelease demand-cast stream\u201d message includes the maximum number of STTs that were registered to the demand-cast stream.","3) \u201creset\u201d\n\n1) TSG Request Demand-Cast Stream\n\na) If the TSG receives a \u201crequest demand-cast stream\u201d message from the SM, then the following scenarios for activating the stream are possible.  illustrates the various scenarios for activation of a demand-cast stream.\n"]}}}},"i) If the demand-cast stream is currently \u2018inactive\u2019, then\n\n","ii) If the demand-cast stream is currently \u2018released\u2019 or \u2018passive\u2019, then\n\n","If the TSG receives a \u201crelease demand-cast stream\u201d message from the SM, then the TSG acknowledges the SM by sending a \u201csuccess\u201d message. If the demand-cast stream is currently \u2018acquired\u2019, then the TSG changes the status of the stream to \u2018released.\u2019","3) Released Stream to Passive Stream Conversion","Removal of a \u2018released\u2019 demand-cast streams could be done, however, such removal would be disadvantageous. Initially, the reference to the \u2018released\u2019 demand-cast stream would have to be removed from the \u201cdemand-cast index table\u201d, then a few seconds later, the stream could be physically removed from the multiplex. This delay between removal from the table and from the multiplex is necessary to prevent a race condition where a STT is acquiring a demand-cast stream while the TSG is in the process of removing it. Therefore, only \u2018passive\u2019 streams are removed in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention.","The ratio of \u2018passive\u2019 to \u2018released\u2019 demand-cast may be specified in the TSG configuration file. It may be maintained as a percentage (i.e. 10% of \u2018released\u2019 streams are converted to \u2018passive\u2019) or it can be maintained as an absolute number (i.e. so as to ensure that there are usually two or three \u2018inactive\u2019 demand-cast streams).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0171"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},"The following are further technical aspects in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Although a specific embodiment of those aspects is described below, the present invention is not meant to be limited to that specific embodiment.","1. Initial Conditions","A. STT","When the STT launches the IPG application, it tunes to the QAM carrying the IPG transport stream. When the STT requests its first demand-cast stream it opens the IPG channel with the SM. When the QAM is tuned, the STT acquires the demand-cast index table and sends an Init command to SM.","B. SM","Initially the SM knows nothing about the IPG multiplex fed to its client STTs. Upon receiving a first \u201crequest demand-cast stream\u201d message from a STT, it verifies that it is aware of the mux ID. Mux ID includes TSG IP address and mux channel within the TSG. If it is aware, then nothing happens. If it is not aware, the TSG opens a communication socket with the source TSG. The SM maintains a log where it registers all muxes that it controls. For each mux in the log, the TSG IP address and mux channel number is recorded.","C. TSG","Initially, the TSG is configured through its own configuration file. Configuration includes the number of demand-cast streams that can be supported by each IPG mux. The absolute number of \u2018passive\u2019 streams or the ratio of \u2018passive\u2019 streams to \u2018released\u2019 streams is specified in the configuration file.","2. Reset","A. SM","If the SM is down, upon reset, it looks-up TSG log file and sends a reset command to the TSG.","B. TSG","When TSG receives a \u201creset\u201d command from the SM, it removes reference to all demand-cast streams in the demand-cast index table in the multiplex referenced by the mux ID in the reset command. Then a few second later, the TSG removes all the demand-cast streams within the multiplex.","C. STT","When the STT does not \u201csee\u201d the PID of the demand-cast stream it is acquiring in the demand-cast index table, it acquires a default IPG broadcast PID. If the STT does not see the demand-cast index table, the STT exits the IPG application.","3. Scalability","A. TSG","Each TSG can manage more than one IPG multiplex. IPG multiplex is referred to by the IPG address of the host TSG and the mux channel number on the TSG.","B. SM","SM can manage more than one TSG. Each IPG multiplex is referred to by the IPG address of the host TSG and the mux channel number on the TSG.","C. STT","STT messages regarding demand-cast streams include demand-cast stream ID, TSG IP address and the mux channel number on the TSG.","While specific embodiments and applications of the present invention have been illustrated and described, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the precise configuration and components disclosed herein and that various modifications and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement, operation, and details of the method and apparatus of the present invention disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The teachings of the present invention can be readily understood by considering the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 2-6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2A","b":"200"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2B","b":"250"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3A","b":"300"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3B","b":"350"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4A","b":"400"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4B","b":"450"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":"500"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":"550"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 6A","b":"600"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6B","b":"650"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 6C","b":["660","600"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"700"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":"1000"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":"1100"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":"1200"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"1300"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["706","702"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["702","704"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["704","702"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 20"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
