---
title: Method and system for providing a protection path for connectionless signals in a telecommunications network
abstract: A method is provided for providing protection for connectionless signals in a telecommunications network comprising a plurality of nodes. A first protection path is generated from each of the nodes to a destination node. A second protection path is generated from each of the nodes to the destination node. The second protection path is distinct from the first protection path. Protection traffic is routed along one of the protection paths to the destination node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07385917&OS=07385917&RS=07385917
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 07385917
owner_city: Kawasaki
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20000606
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/202,190, entitled INTERNET PROTOCOL TRANSPORT, filed May 5, 2000 which is hereby incorporated by reference.","This invention relates generally to the field of telecommunications and more particularly to a method and system for providing a protection path for connectionless signals in a telecommunications network.","Telecommunications systems generally operate in either a connection-oriented mode or a connectionless mode. In a connectionless mode of operation, signals are communicated with less regard for the particular path traversed between source and destination and network elements than in a connection-oriented mode. Connectionless signaling typically focuses on the destination address, or other identification, rather than any particular path between source and destination network elements. Internet Protocol (IP), IPx, and SNA packet switching are examples of connectionless signal transport.","When a failure occurs along the working path being traversed by signals in connectionless communication, the signals must be re-routed to the destination network element along another available path. In conventional telecommunications systems, this re-routing is done by each individual network element with no pre-defined protection paths existing for the connectionless signals. Thus, these systems are inefficient. In addition, bandwidth is wasted by these systems due to inefficient bandwidth reservation schemes.","In accordance with the present invention, a method and system for providing a protection path for connectionless signals in a telecommunications network are provided that substantially eliminate or reduce disadvantages and problems associated with previously developed systems and methods. In particular, protection paths are pre-defined for connectionless signals, thereby increasing network efficiency.","In one embodiment of the present invention, a method is provided for providing protection for connectionless signals in a telecommunications network comprising a plurality of nodes. A first protection path is generated from each of the nodes to a destination node. A second protection path is generated from each of the nodes to the destination node. The second protection path is distinct from the first protection path. Protection traffic is routed along one of the protection paths to the destination node.","In another embodiment of the present invention, a node is provided in a telecommunications network. The node includes at least two ports and a protection egress port identifier. Each of the ports is operable to receive and transmit traffic for the node. The protection egress port identifier is operable to identify one of the ports as a protection egress port for a specified ingress port and a specified destination node. The protection egress port is operable to transmit protection traffic received at the specified ingress port for the specified destination node.","Technical advantages of the present invention include providing a method for providing a protection path for connectionless signals in a telecommunications network. In particular, two protection paths are provided from each node to each destination node. Accordingly, each node may communicate with each other node along two distinct protection paths. As a result, the network is protected against a single failure. In addition, network efficiency is improved through the use of the pre-defined protection paths.","Other technical advantages will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures, description, and claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"10"},"The system  is operable to provide either connectionless communication or a hybrid of connectionless and connection-oriented communication, as described in the co-owned U.S. patent application entitled, \u201cSystem and Method for Connectionless\/Connection Oriented Signal Transport,\u201d filed on Jun. 6, 2000. The system  comprises a core cloud  that comprises one or more core network elements , or nodes . The nodes  may communicate with each other via communication links  and with one or more peripheral network elements  via communication links . The communication links  and  may comprise any wireless, wireline, fiber or other communication medium or combinations of media. A signal communicated via communication links  and\/or  may comprise an electrical signal, an optical signal, or any other suitable type of signal or combination of signals.","The peripheral network elements  facilitate communication between the core cloud  and other network elements coupled to other networks, such as networks . According to the illustrated embodiment, the peripheral network elements  comprise routers . Each router  couples the core cloud  to a network  via a communication link . As used herein, \u201ceach\u201d means every one of at least a subset of the identified items.","The routers  facilitate routing functions for signals originated or forwarded by interface equipment  and communicated over the networks . The interface units  comprise personal computers, servers, switches, routers or any other suitable network equipment operable to originate or forward communication signals.","The networks  may comprise any suitable wireline or wireless systems that support communication between network elements using ground-based and\/or space-based components. For example, the networks  may comprise public switched telephone networks, integrated services digital networks, local area networks, wide area networks, or any other suitable communication system or combination of communication systems at one or more locations. Each of the networks  may comprise a single network or multiple networks.","In operation, the core cloud  receives connectionless signals from the routers  and routes those signals through the core cloud  to another appropriate router  according to routing rules associated with the received signal. In a particular embodiment, an ingress node  receives an incoming signal from a router  and appends a transport label to the incoming signal which contains instructions or an index to instructions to other nodes  on how to process the signal.","The ingress node  identifies an egress node  associated with a destination router  and communicates the signal toward the egress node . Nodes  residing between the ingress node and the egress node  receive the signal with the appended transport label and process the signal in accordance with the transport label.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["80","14","100","102","100","102"]},"In the illustrated embodiment, a plurality of nodes  are operable to communicate connectionless signals to and from each other over a working path  which provides a shortest distance path between source and destination nodes . In order to provide protection for these connectionless signals, a blue protection path , indicated by a dashed line, and a red protection path , indicated by a dotted line, are generated such that each node  may communicate with each other node  along two distinct protection paths  and . Thus, each node  comprises at least two ports: a blue port for transmitting traffic along the blue protection path  and a red port for transmitting traffic along the red protection path . As illustrated in , a destination node  may be reached by any other node  by following either the blue protection path  or the red protection path  from the other node .","In order to provide protection with these protection paths  and , a network must be protectable. The following notation will be used in determining whether or not a network is protectable. A graph G with n vertices, or nodes, and m edges, or links, has a vertex set V(G) and an edge set E(G). The count of the set V(G) is expressed as C(V(G)), which is equivalent to the number of nodes  inside the network. A network is protectable against a single fault if for all x,y in the set G there are two distinct paths inside G. This is the case for any network for which an ear decomposition, as described below, is possible.","A path addition to graph G is the addition to G of a path of length l\u22671 between two vertices of G, introducing l\u22121 new vertices. This added path is referred to as an ear. An ear decomposition is a partition of the graph G into sets P, . . . , Psuch that C=Pis a cycle and Pfor i\u22121 is an ear, or path addition, to the graph G formed by P\u222a . . . \u222aP.","Thus, for each node  in a protectable network, there are two distinct paths  and  to reach any other node  in the network. The paths  and  are distinct in that they share no common nodes  or links. Using the ear decomposition previously described, the protectable network may be decomposed into a ring  and a set of ears . In accordance with one embodiment, each node  in the network performs the ear decomposition in the same manner to arrive at the same result. It will be understood, however, that any suitable decomposition of the network may be performed by the nodes to arrive at a same result without departing from the scope of the present invention.","The ring  forms the initial part of the protectable network and is denoted by P. The first ear comprises a set of nodes  coupled in a linear fashion with two links coupled to two different nodes  in the ring . The first ear is denoted as P. The second ear is a set of nodes  coupled to two different nodes  in either Por P. Although the illustrated embodiment comprises three ears and , it will be understood that an ear decomposition of a protectable network may result in any suitable number of ears .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["140","100","102","14","100","102"]},"The ring  is split open at the destination node  and charted horizontally, beginning and ending with the same destination node . Beginning with the leftmost destination node , the first ear is identified based on a minimum hop count to the destination node . This ear is denoted as Pand is charted horizontally above the ring .","Any other ears , such as ears and , are identified in a similar manner and charted horizontally above the previous ear . After charting the ring  and the ears , the blue protection path  is generated from right to left on the chart and the red protection path  is generated from left to right on the chart. Thus, from any node , the protection paths  and  to the destination node  do not intersect, resulting in a network which is protected from any single failure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["14","14","200","14","200","200","14"]},"The node  also comprises a traffic classifier  for classifying traffic received through ports  as either working traffic or protection traffic, a working traffic egress port identifier  for identifying an egress port  for working traffic, a protection egress port identifier  for identifying an egress port  for protection traffic, a secondary protection egress port identifier  for identifying an egress port  for protection traffic, an egress port evaluator  for evaluating the status of an egress port , and an egress port selector  for selecting an appropriate egress port  and, in certain situations, discarding traffic.","The traffic classifier  is operable to classify traffic received through the ports  as either working traffic or protection traffic. According to one embodiment, the traffic comprises a traffic identifier identifying itself as either working traffic or protection traffic. For example, the traffic identifier may comprise a specified bit in the traffic, with one value for the bit indicating working traffic and another value for the bit indicating protection traffic. The traffic classifier  is then operable to classify the received traffic based on the traffic identifier for the traffic. It will be understood that the traffic classifier  may classify the traffic as working or protection traffic in any other suitable manner without departing from the scope of the present invention.","The working traffic egress port identifier  identifies an egress port  for working traffic received at any one of the ports  for the node  based on the corresponding destination node for the traffic. Thus, the working traffic egress port identifier  may comprise a database, table or other suitable data store for identifying a particular port  as an egress port for working traffic received at the node  based on the destination node for the working traffic. For example, for working traffic received at the node  having a particular destination node, the working traffic egress port identifier  may identify port F  as the egress port  for that traffic. For another destination node, the working traffic egress port identifier  may identify port C  as the egress port .","The protection egress port identifier  is operable to identify an egress port  for protection traffic received at any other port  in the node  bound for a particular destination node. Thus, the protection egress port identifier  may comprise a database, table or other suitable data store for identifying a particular port  as an egress port for protection traffic received at the node  based on a particular ingress port  in conjunction with the destination node for the protection traffic. For example, for protection traffic received at port B  having a particular destination node, the protection traffic egress port identifier  may identify port D  as the egress port  for that traffic. For protection traffic received at port B  having a different destination node, the protection traffic egress port identifier  may identify port E  as the egress port  for that traffic.","The secondary protection egress port identifier  is operable to identify an egress port  for transmitting traffic received at another port  in the node  for a particular destination node. Thus, the secondary protection egress port identifier  may comprise a database, table or other suitable data store for identifying a particular port  as an egress port for transmitting protection traffic based on working traffic received at the node  having a particular destination node. For example, for working traffic received at the node  having a particular destination node and for which the working traffic egress port  identified by the working traffic egress port identifier  is unavailable, the secondary protection egress port identifier  may identify port G  as the egress port  for that traffic. Thus, for a particular destination node, the secondary protection egress port identifier  identifies one egress port .","The egress port evaluator  is operable to evaluate the status of an egress port  in order to determine whether the port  is available or unavailable. The status for a port  is available when the port  is functioning properly, while the status is unavailable when the port  is not functioning properly. According to one embodiment, each port  for the node  provides a status to the egress port evaluator . Alternatively, the egress port evaluator  may test the ports  to determine status or may request a status from the ports . It will be understood that the egress port evaluator  may obtain the status of the egress ports  in any suitable manner without departing from the scope of the present invention.","The egress port selector  is operable to select an appropriate egress port  and to discard traffic for which no appropriate egress port  is available. Thus, the egress port selector  may retrieve information from the traffic classifier , the egress port evaluator , and one or more of the working traffic egress port identifier , protection egress port identifier , and secondary protection egress port identifier  in order to select the appropriate egress port  for a given situation.","In operation, the traffic classifier , the working traffic egress port identifier , the protection egress port identifier , the secondary protection egress port identifier , the egress port evaluator  and the egress port selector  operate together to route traffic from a particular ingress port  to the appropriate egress port  for the node . The working traffic egress port  identified by the working traffic egress port identifier  is selected by the egress port selector  for received working traffic that is being forwarded along the working path . The protection egress port  identified by the protection egress port identifier  is selected by the egress port selector  for received protection traffic that is being forwarded along a protection path  or . The secondary protection egress port  identified by the secondary protection egress port identifier  is selected by the egress port selector  for traffic received on the working path , but that is being transmitted onto a protection path  or .","The egress port selector  is operable to select an egress port  based on traffic classification and on port status. If the traffic classifier  has classified the received traffic as protection traffic, the egress port selector  provides the protection egress port  identified by the protection egress port identifier  to the egress port evaluator  for status evaluation. If the protection egress port status is available, the egress port selector  selects the protection egress port  as the egress port  for the corresponding traffic. However, if the protection egress port status is unavailable, the egress port selector  discards the corresponding traffic.","If the traffic classifier  has classified the received traffic as working traffic, the egress port selector  provides the working traffic egress port  identified by the working traffic egress port identifier  to the egress port evaluator  for status evaluation. If the working traffic egress port status is available, the egress port selector  selects the working traffic egress port  as the egress port  for the corresponding traffic. However, if the working traffic egress port status is unavailable, the secondary protection egress port  identified by the secondary protection egress port identifier  is provided by the egress port selector  to the egress port evaluator  for status evaluation.","If the secondary protection egress port status is available, the egress port selector  selects the secondary protection egress port  as the egress port  for the corresponding traffic. However, if the secondary protection egress port status is unavailable, the egress port selector  discards the corresponding traffic.","Thus, for received working traffic with an available corresponding working traffic egress port , the traffic is transmitted by the working traffic egress port  along the working path . Similarly, for protection traffic with an available protection egress port , the traffic is transmitted by the protection egress port  along the protection path  or  on which the traffic was received. For received working traffic with an unavailable working traffic egress port , the traffic is transmitted onto a protection path  or  by the secondary protection egress port , if available. Thus, this traffic is re-routed from the working path  to the protection path  or  having the shortest distance to the destination node. In addition, the traffic identifier for the traffic is changed to indicate that the traffic is now protection traffic as opposed to working traffic.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["14","64","500","64","501","100","502","102","504","200","200","100","102"]},"At step , the costs of the protection paths  and  are compared. At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether the cost of the blue protection path  is less than the cost of the red protection path . If the cost of the blue protection path  is less than the cost of the red protection path , the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  to step . At step , the secondary protection egress port  for node \u03b2 for the selected destination node is set to the blue port.","Returning to decisional step , if the cost of the blue protection path  is not less than the cost of the red protection path , the method follows the No branch from decisional step  to step . At step , the secondary protection egress port  for node \u03b2 for the selected destination node is set to the red port.","From steps  and , the method continues to decisional step . At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether any destination nodes  remain whose secondary protection egress port for node \u03b2 has not been assigned. If destination nodes  remain whose secondary protection egress port for node \u03b2 has not been assigned, the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  and returns to step  for the selection of another destination node . However, if no destination node  remains whose secondary protection egress port for node \u03b2 has not been assigned, the method follows No branch from decisional step  and comes to an end.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["200","14","64","600","64","64","602","120","14","14","120","120","64"],"sub":["0","0","0"],"o":"d"},"At step , the ring  is charted horizontally on a graph. Because the destination node d  is included twice, at the beginning and end of the ring , the destination node d  has two coordinates on the graph. The left coordinate, which is expressed as X(d) is zero, while the right coordinate, which is expressed as X(d), is \u03b1 (a value greater than zero).","At step , each node  in the ring  is given a coordinate. Starting from the dside, the jnode in P, denoted as nwill have a coordinate given by:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"X","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":["p0","j"],"mo":","}}}},{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["j","\u03b1"],"mo":["\u00d7","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mi":"C","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"P","mn":"0"}}}]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":["with","j"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},"mo":"=","mn":"0"}],"mo":"="},{"mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"P","mn":"0"}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}],"mo":[",","\u2062",","],"mi":"\u2026","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["eqn",".1"],"mo":"\u2062"}}}]}}}}},"At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether node \u03b2 is in the ring . If node \u03b2 is in the ring , the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  to step . At step , a blue port for node \u03b2 is defined as the port  linked to node n\u2208V(P) with coordinate X(n)<X(\u03b2). At step , a red port for node \u03b2 is defined as the port  linked to node n\u2208V(P) with coordinate X(n)>X(\u03b2) At step , the protection egress port for the red port is set to the blue port. At step , the protection egress port for the blue port is set to the red port.","At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether each port  of node \u03b2 has been assigned a corresponding protection egress port for the destination node d . If each port  of node \u03b2 has been assigned a corresponding protection egress port for the destination node d , the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  to decisional step .","At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether any destination nodes d  remain whose protection egress ports for node \u03b2 have not been assigned. If destination nodes d  remain whose protection egress ports for node \u03b2 have not been assigned, the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  and returns to step  for the selection of another destination node d . However, if no destination nodes D  remain whose protection egress ports for node \u03b2 have not been assigned, the method follows the No branch from decisional step  and comes to an end.","Returning to decisional step , if each port of node \u03b2 has not been assigned a corresponding protection egress port for the destination node d , the method follows the No branch from decisional step  to step . At step , protection egress ports are assigned for the remaining ports  of node \u03b2.","Returning to decisional step , if node \u03b2 is not in the ring , the method follows the No branch from decisional step  to step . At step , a counter, i, is set to zero. At step , the counter, i, is incremented by one.","At step , the iear  of the ear decomposition, P, is identified by determining which ear (i) has the largest nodal count, C(V(P)), among all the possible decompositions and (ii) has the largest node ID, x, among the nodes  in . The largest node ID is used to select a single ear from multiple possible ears which each have the same nodal count.","At step , a left border node, e, is identified for the ear P in the set V(P)\u2229V(P\u222a . . . \u222aP). At step , a right border node, e, is identified for the ear P in the set V(P)\u2229V(P\u222a . . . \u222aP).","At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether d\u2208V(P). If d\u2208V(P), the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  to step . At step , the ear  starts on the dside, with X(e)=X(d)=0. The ear  may also end with the destination node d  on the dside. This is the case when e=e=d. The nodes eand eare selected so that X(e)<X(e).","Returning to decisional step , if d\u2209V(P), the method follows the No branch from decisional step  to decisional step . At step decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether node \u03b2 is in V(P). If node \u03b2 is in V(P), the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  to step . If node \u03b2 is not in V(P), the method follows the No branch from decisional step  and returns to step  where the counter is incremented and the method continues until node \u03b2 is in V(P).","At step , the blue port of node \u03b2 is defined as the port  linked to node n\u2208V(P), with coordinate X(n)<X(\u03b2). At step , the red port of node \u03b2 is defined as the port  linked to node n\u2208V(P), with coordinate X(n)>X(\u03b2). At step , the protection egress port for the red port is set to the blue port. At step , the protection egress port for the blue port is set to the red port.","At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether node \u03b2 is the left border node. If node \u03b2 is the left border node, the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  to step . At step , the protection egress port for the port  of node \u03b2 leading to other nodes  in V(P) is set to the blue port.","Returning to decisional step , if node \u03b2 is not the left border node, the method follows the No branch from decisional step  to decisional step . At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether node \u03b2 is the right border node. If node \u03b2 is the right border node, the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  to step . At step , the protection egress port for the port  of node \u03b2 leading to other nodes  in V(P) is set to the red port. Returning to decisional step , if node \u03b2 is not the right border node, the method follows the No branch from decisional step  and returns to decisional step .","According to one embodiment, the coordinates for each V(P) are made unique. For this embodiment, the coordinates of the jnode from e, denoted as nwith j>0, are assigned to:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"X","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":["Pi","j"],"mo":","}}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"X","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mi":["e","i","l"]}}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["M","i"]},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"X","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mi":["e","i","l"]}}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["P","i"]}}},"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u00d7","mi":"j"}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"="},{"mrow":{"mi":["with","j"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}},"mo":"=","mn":"1"},{"mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["P","i"]}}},"mo":"-","mn":"2"}],"mo":[",","\u2062",",","\u2062",","],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"\u2026"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["eqn",".2"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}]}}}},"br":{},"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["M","{X","n","X","e","X","n"],"sub":["i","n\u2208V(P",{"sub2":"0"},"\u222a . . . \u222aP",{"sub2":"i\u22121"},")","i"],"sup":"l"},"where Mis the smallest coordinate in V(P\u222a . . . \u222aP) which is larger than X(e).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["14","700","14"]},"At step , working bandwidth is determined for the central node based on the amount of working traffic that may be received from a particular peripheral node, assuming that the corresponding working path  is available. At step , protection bandwidth is determined for the central node based on the amount of protection traffic that may be received from the peripheral node, assuming that the corresponding working path  is unavailable.","At step , the working bandwidth for the central node based on the working traffic from the peripheral node is compared to the protection bandwidth for the central node based on the protection traffic from the peripheral node. At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether the protection bandwidth is greater than the working bandwidth. If the protection bandwidth is greater than the working bandwidth, the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  to step . At step , additional working bandwidth is reserved for the central node in accordance with the difference between the protection bandwidth and the working bandwidth associated with the peripheral node.","Returning to decisional step , if the protection bandwidth is not greater than the working bandwidth, the method follows the No branch from decisional step  to step . At step , no additional working bandwidth is reserved for the central node based on the peripheral node.","From steps  and , the method continues to decisional step . At decisional step , a determination is made regarding whether there are more peripheral nodes that may contribute to the bandwidth requirement for the central node. If there are more peripheral nodes, the method follows the Yes branch from decisional step  and returns to step  in order to determine whether or not to reserve additional bandwidth for another peripheral node. However, if there are no more peripheral nodes, the method follows the No branch from decisional step  and comes to an end. In this way, bandwidth is reserved for the central node in accordance with the bandwidth requirements contributed by each of the peripheral nodes from which the central node receives traffic.","According to one embodiment, bandwidth is reserved for the protection paths  and  to provide protection based on Quality of Service. The following notations are introduced to facilitate the discussion of this embodiment.","The set of all nodes  in the telecommunications network will be denoted as N. Each node  can be expressed as Iwhere x is the index of the set N. The count of this set is C(N).","The set of all unidirectional links in the telecommunications network will be denoted as L. Each member of Lwill be represented as l, with i being the index of the set L. The count of this set is C(L).","Bandwidth reservation involves a determination of the required link bandwidth for protection purposes, expressed as Pfor any link linside the network. In determining protection bandwidth reservation for a link l, traffic from other links and nodes  onto link lare considered, as discussed below.","For any working link linside the network that sends working traffic onto link l, the bandwidth for this portion of the traffic on link lis expressed as B(l\/l) (bandwidth of the working traffic from lto l). If link lis broken, such traffic disappears.","For any broken link linside the network, bandwidth for the protection traffic directed onto link ldue to the broken status of link lis expressed as B(l\/l).","For any working node Iinside the network that sends working traffic onto link l, the bandwidth for this portion of the traffic on link lis expressed as B(I\/l) (bandwidth of the working traffic from node Ito l). If node Iis broken, such traffic disappears.","For any broken node Iinside the network, bandwidth for the protection traffic directed onto link ldue to the broken status of node Iis expressed as B(I\/l).","Thus, for protecting against a failure on link l, the protection bandwidth on link l, expressed as P(l), is given by:\n\n()=max(0()\u2212())\u2003\u2003(eqn. 1)\n","Similarly, for protecting against a failure on node I, the protection bandwidth on link l, expressed as P(I), is given by:\n\n()=max(0()\u2212())\u2003\u2003(eqn.2)\n","Thus, an array can be established by considering each link and node  inside the network as follows:\n\n[(), . . . , (),(), . . . , ()]\u2003\u2003(eqn. 3)\n","The array expressed in equation 3 can be numerically sorted and expressed as {p,p, . . . , p} with p\u2267p\u2267 . . . \u2267pand n=C(L)+C(N). For a single failure inside the network, the amount of bandwidth required for protection purposes is:\n\nP=p\u2003\u2003(eqn. 4)\n","For M failures, the amount of the bandwidth required for protection purposes is:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["P","lx"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"M"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["p","j"]}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["eqn",".5"],"mo":"\u2062"}}}]}}}}},"Based on equation 3, it is also possible to specify a set of multiple failures for protection, depending on the protection policy (based on the importance of protecting certain links over others). Thus, this reservation mechanism minimizes the amount of bandwidth to be reserved for protection purposes.","Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments, various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present invention encompasses such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present invention and its advantages, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like numerals represent like parts, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1"],"b":["2","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
