---
title: Structure for attenuation or cancellation of quadrature error
abstract: A movable microstructure includes a first finger set comprising two or more first fingers affixed to a substrate and extending substantially parallel to a defined displacement axis towards a proof-mass. The movable microstructure further includes a second finger set comprising at least one second finger, each member of the second finger set extending substantially parallel to the displacement axis from the proof-mass, terminating between two first fingers. Each second finger is substantially closer to one of the two first fingers between which it terminates. The first finger set, in conjunction with the second finger set, form two terminals of a capacitor. An electrical circuit is included that provides a voltage across the capacitor to generate a position-dependent force, the position-dependent force having a component along an axis substantially orthogonal to the displacement axis, the magnitude of the position-dependent force varying in proportion to displacement along the displacement axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07051590&OS=07051590&RS=07051590
owner: Analog Devices IMI, Inc.
number: 07051590
owner_city: Berkeley
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20000613
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","IDENTIFICATION OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims priority to Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/139,352 filed Jun. 15, 1999 entitled \u201cVIBRATORY RATE GYROSCOPE WITH QUADRATURE-ERROR CORRECTION CAPABILITY.\u201d","This invention was made with Government support under F49620-98-C-0082 awarded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to moving structures and more particularly, to vibratory rate gyroscopes. This invention may be used to reduce error caused by imperfections in implementation of such structures.","2. Description of the Related Art","Rate gyroscopes are sensors that measure rotation rate. Rate gyroscopes have uses in many commercial and military applications including, but not limited to, inertial navigation, vehicular skid control, and platform stabilization.","A vibratory rate gyroscope is a sensor that responds to a rotation rate by generating and measuring Coriolis acceleration. Coriolis acceleration is generated by an object, such as a proof-mass, that has some velocity relative to a rotating reference frame. In vibratory rate gyroscopes, one or more proof-masses are often suspended from flexures and made to oscillate thus providing a velocity necessary to generate Coriolis acceleration. Measurement of the resulting Coriolis acceleration can then yield an estimate of the rotation rate of the sensor.","An idealized version of a single-mass sensor is shown in . In this figure a three-dimensional, mutually orthogonal coordinate system is shown for reference. The axes are arbitrarily labeled \u201cX\u201d, \u201cY\u201d, and \u201cZ\u201d to enable description of background material as well as the invention. Oscillation that is largely coincident with the X-axis is often referred to as the drive-mode or driven-mode. Coriolis acceleration is generated perpendicular to the drive-mode along the sense-mode, which lies largely along the Y-axis. The Coriolis acceleration generated by the system shown in  is given by:\n\n\u03b1=2\u03a9\u03c9cos(\u03c9)\u2003\u2003Equation 1\n\nwhere ais the Coriolis acceleration generated along the sense-mode, \u03a9is the rotation rate to be measured about the Z-axis, and \u03c9and Dare the frequency and magnitude of drive-mode oscillation, respectively. The Coriolis acceleration causes an oscillatory displacement of the sensor along the sense-mode with magnitude proportional to the generated Coriolis acceleration. Ideally, the drive-mode is coincident with the forcing means used to sustain oscillation (located along the X-axis or drive-axis), and the sense-mode is coincident with the sensing means used to detect displacements due to Coriolis acceleration (located along the Y-axis or sense-axis).\n","The simplified schematic of  shows proof-mass , attached to substrate  via a compliant suspension that may be modeled by two springs , and . Typically the compliant suspension is designed such that the suspension may be modeled by an orthogonal decomposition into two springs: spring lying along the sense-mode and spring lying along the drive-mode. Mathematically this translates into a goal of being able to decompose the suspension into a diagonal spring matrix when an orthogonal coordinate system comprising the sense-axis and the drive-axis is chosen. The design and fabrication of the proof-mass and the suspension will dictate the actual orientation of the drive- and sense-modes with respect to the driving and sensing axes. Often, the suspension may have small, off-diagonal spring-matrix components due to, for example, processing imperfections during a reactive-ion-etching step, or misalignment of the drive and sense-axes to their corresponding modes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["62","62","60","60","60"],"i":["a ","b ","a","b","c"]},"It is important to understand that the Coriolis acceleration signal along the sense-axis is in phase with velocity of the drive-mode, which is 90 degrees out-of-phase with proof-mass displacement along the drive-mode. While the Coriolis acceleration is 90 degrees out-of-phase with the proof-mass displacement along the drive-mode, displacements along the sense-mode due to Coriolis acceleration may have a different phase relationship to the proof-mass displacement along the drive-mode depending on several factors including: the relative values of drive-mode oscillation frequency to sense-mode resonant frequency, and the quality factor of the sense-mode.","Forces are often applied to vibratory-rate gyroscopes to generate or sustain proof-mass oscillation. Forces may be applied to the gyroscope using variable air-gap capacitors formed between one or more plates or conductive nodes attached to the proof-mass and one or more plates or conductive nodes attached to the substrate. Note that electrostatic forces result between charged capacitor plates. The magnitude and direction of the force is given by the gradient of the potential energy function for the capacitor as shown below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["F","_"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":"\u2207","mi":"U"}},{"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":"\u2207","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mfrac":{"msup":{"mi":"Q","mn":"2"},"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"C","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["x","y","z"],"mo":[",",","]}}}}}}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"2"}}]}}}}},"As an example, an appropriate oscillation in the gyroscope may be generated using a force along a single axis (e.g. the X-axis). Equation 2 implies that any capacitor that varies with displacement along the X-axis will generate an appropriate force. An implementation of a pair of such capacitors is shown in . This capacitor configuration has a number of advantages including ample room for large displacements along the X-axis without collisions between comb fingers. By applying differential voltages with a common mode bias Vacross electrically conductive comb fingers , and , a force that is independent of X-axis displacement and linear with control voltage, vis created.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"V","mn":"1"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["V","DC"]},{"mi":["v","x"]}],"mo":"-"}},{"msub":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["V","DC"]},{"mi":["v","x"]}],"mo":"+"}},{"msub":{"mi":["F","x"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mfrac":[{"mn":["1","2"]},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"C"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mi":"V","mn":["2","2"]}},{"mfrac":[{"mn":["1","2"]},{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"C"},{"mo":"\u2202","mi":"x"}]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msubsup":{"mi":"V","mn":["1","2"]}}],"mo":"-"},{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mfrac":{"msub":[{"mi":"C","mn":"0"},{"mi":"X","mn":"0"}]},"msub":[{"mi":["V","DC"]},{"mi":["v","x"]}]}],"mo":"="}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mtext":{}}]}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sub":["0 ","0 ","1","2 ","1","DC","x ","2","DC","x"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"i":["V","=V","V","=\u2212V"]},"Note that in both of these cases the magnitude of the force is proportional to the control voltage, v, and the DC bias voltage, V. This permits the magnitude and direction of the force to be directly controlled by varying either vor Vwhile maintaining the other voltage constant. Other prior-art work has used parallel-plate capacitors, or piezoelectric transduction elements to effect motion.","Many methods are known that sense motion or displacement using air-gap capacitors. Details of capacitive measurement techniques are well known by those skilled in the art. These methods may be used for detection of displacement due to Coriolis acceleration, measuring quadrature error (described below), or as part of an oscillation-sustaining loop. Often a changing voltage is applied to two nominally equal-sized capacitors, formed by a plurality of conductive fingers, with values that change in opposite directions in response to a displacement. For example, one method applies voltages to these sensing capacitors in a manner that generates a charge that is measured by a sense interface (see for example: Boser, B. E., Howe, R. T., \u201cSurface micromachined accelerometers,\u201d IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, vol. 31, pp. 366\u201375, March 1996., or Lemkin, M., Boser B. E., \u201cA micromachined fully differential lateral accelerometer,\u201d CICC Dig. Tech. Papers, May 1996, pp. 315\u2013318.). Another method uses a constant DC bias voltage applied across two sensing capacitors. Any change in the capacitance values results in current flow that is detected by a sense interface (See for example: Clark, W. A., Micromachined Vibratory Rate Gyroscopes, Doctoral Dissertation, University of California, 1997; Roessig, T. A., Integrated MEMS Tuning Fork Oscillators for Sensor Applications, University of California, 1998; Nguyen, C. T.-C., Howe, R. T., \u201cAn integrated CMOS micromechanical resonator high-Q oscillator,\u201d IEEE JSSC, pp. 440\u2013455, April 1999). Furthermore, some methods of capacitive detection use time-multiplexing (See for example: M. Lemkin, B. E. Boser, \u201cA three-axis micromachined accelerometer with a CMOS position-sense interface and digital offset-trim electronics,\u201d IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, pp. 456\u201368, April 1999) or frequency multiplexing (See for example Sherman, S. J, et. al., \u201cA low cost monolithic accelerometer; product\/technology update,\u201d International Electron Devices Meeting, San Francisco, Calif., December 1992, pp. 501\u20134) to enable electrostatic forces to be applied to a microstructure and displacement or motion of the microstructure to be sensed using a single set of capacitors. An example of an application in which time- or frequency-multiplexing of capacitor function in such a manner may prove useful includes a force-feedback loop.","Provided with a controllable force applied to a structure and a measure of the structure's deflection, the structure may be driven into oscillation using feedback. Oscillation is achieved by measuring the structure's displacement or velocity then determining the magnitude, and\/or phase of the force or forces to apply to the structure. The measurement of the structure's displacement and the force(s) applied may be electrostatic as described above. In a dual-mass gyroscope the position or velocity detected by the sense interface often reflects relative motion between the two masses, and the forces applied to the two masses may contain a differential force component. Many methods that sustain drive-mode oscillation are known by those skilled in the art. Descriptions of oscillation-sustaining circuits and techniques may be found in, for example (Roessig, T. A., Integrated MEMS Tuning Fork Oscillators for Sensor Applications, University of California, 1998; Nguyen, C. T.-C., Howe, R. T., \u201cAn integrated CMOS micromechanical resonator high-Q oscillator,\u201d IEEE JSSC, pp. 440\u2013455, April 1999; Lemkin, et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/322,840 Filed May 28, 1999; Putty et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,383,362, Issued Jan. 24, 1995; Ward, U.S. Pat. No. 5,600,064, Issued Feb. 4, 1997). Note that driven-mode oscillations may also be excited open loop, see for example Geiger, W. et al. \u201cA mechanically controlled oscillator,\u201d 99, Sendai Japan, Jun. 7\u201310, 1999 pp. 1406\u201309.","Because of imperfections introduced in the manufacturing process, the gyroscope driven-mode and sense-axis may not be perfectly orthogonal. Imperfections in elements of the suspension are one possible source of this non-orthogonality. A non-orthogonal relationship between the driven-mode and the sense-axis may cause a sense capacitance change proportional to displacement in the drive-mode to appear along the sense axis. When the sense-capacitance change is detected using a position-sense interface, an output signal substantially in-phase with displacement may result.","This undesirable signal is termed quadrature error. Since Coriolis acceleration is in phase with velocity, these two signals are ideally separated by 90 degrees of phase, hence the name quadrature error. Note, however, the magnitude of the quadrature error may be many orders of magnitude greater than the quantity of interest: Coriolis acceleration.","Due to the similarity and relative magnitude of the two signals, quadrature-error can contaminate if not overwhelm the sensor output. For example, a small amount of phase lag in detection circuitry can lead to quadrature error leakage into the sensor output. Results of this leakage may include large sensor output offsets, output-offset drift, and noise. In addition, large quadrature-error signals may cause saturation of sense-mode interfaces. Quadrature-error has been addressed in different ways in prior art gyroscopes including forcing mechanisms (Ward, U.S. Pat. No. 5,600,064, Issued Feb. 4, 1997; Clark et al, U.S. Pat. No. 5,992,233, Issued Nov. 30, 1999; Clark et al., U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/321,972, Filed May 28, 1999) and carefully-designed, well-controlled fabrication of mechanical structures (Geen, J. \u201cA path to low cost gyroscopy,\u201d -, Hilton Head Island, S.C., Jun. 8\u201311, 1998, pp 51\u20134.). A good description of sources of quadrature-error and the effect on vibratory-rate gyroscopes may be found in Clark, W. A., Micromachined Vibratory Rate Gyroscopes, Doctoral Dissertation, University of California, 1997.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a device for causing a vibrating mass to vibrate, absent a Coriolis force, more precisely along a driven axis substantially orthogonal to a sense axis. Since deflections along the sense axis may be sensed to infer a rotation rate in a vibratory-rate gyroscope, improved sensor output may be attained when the mass is caused to vibrate more precisely along a drive axis.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a device capable of causing a vibrating mass to vibrate, absent a Coriolis force, more precisely along a driven axis using a feedback network in which quadrature-error is measured and actively fed back to cause the vibrating mass to vibrate, absent a Coriolis force, more precisely along a driven axis in the presence of disturbances such as temperature fluctuations, flicker noise, or variations in mechanical stress.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a device capable of causing a vibrating mass to vibrate, absent a Coriolis force, more precisely along a driven axis in an area-efficient manner.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a device capable of causing a vibrating mass to vibrate, absent a Coriolis force, more precisely along a driven axis where the vibrating mass is formed from a single layer of conductive material.","These and other objects are accomplished, according to an embodiment of the present invention, by a movable microstructure comprising a substrate, and a proof-mass disposed above the substrate. The movable microstructure includes a first finger set comprising two or more first fingers affixed to the substrate and extending substantially parallel to a defined displacement axis towards the proof-mass. The movable microstructure further includes a second finger set comprising at least one second finger, each member of the second finger set extending substantially parallel to the displacement axis from the proof-mass, terminating between two first fingers. Each second finger is substantially closer to one of the two first fingers between which it terminates. The first finger set, in conjunction with the second finger set, form two terminals of a capacitor. An electrical circuit is included that provides a voltage across the capacitor to generate a position-dependent force, the position-dependent force having a component along an axis substantially orthogonal to the displacement axis, the magnitude of the position-dependent force varying in proportion to displacement along the displacement axis.","Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout all the views of the drawings.","A novel quadrature-nulling structure in accordance with the present invention reduces quadrature-error in single-mass vibratory-rate gyroscopes (VGR's), dual-mass VGR's, and single- or dual-mass frame-based VGR's. It will be well understood by those of average skill that the structure is to be used with an oscillation-sustaining loop and a sense axis position-sensing interface. As described in the section titled Description of the Related Art, these methods and configurations are well known by those skilled in the art. To prevent unnecessary distraction from the subject of the invention, air-gap capacitors comprising the oscillation-sustaining loop and the sense-axis position-sensing interface are not shown in the following detailed description of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["100","101","100","101","100","100","100","101","101","101","100","100","101","101","100","101"],"i":["a ","a","b","b ","a","b","a","b","a","b","a","b"],"sub":["1","2","2","1 ","1","2"]},"Note when multiple fingers are needed to provide sufficient quadrature-correcting force, like fingers may be connected to the same electrical node. Thus, like fingers (for example, and ) may be formed in a single layer of conducting material. Finger(s) (etc.) may be attached to a proof-mass and finger(s) (etc.) may be attached to the substrate. Alternatively, finger(s) (etc.) may be attached to the substrate and finger(s) (etc.) may be attached to a proof-mass. A quadrature-nulling force, with Y-axis value having a component proportional to X-axis displacement, is generated by applying a voltage V between the two electrical nodes formed by like interconnected fingers. When multiple sets of cancellation fingers are required, the Y-axis force on a single finger for a single finger pair located adjacent to another finger pair is approximately:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["F","Y"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"},{"mi":"Z","mn":"1"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"x"},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msubsup":{"mi":"Y","mn":["2","2"]}},{"mn":"1","msubsup":{"mi":"Y","mn":["1","2"]}}],"mo":"-"}},"msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"}},{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"},{"mi":"Z","mn":"1"},{"mi":"X","mn":"1"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"munder":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msubsup":{"mi":"Y","mn":["2","2"]}},{"mn":"1","msubsup":{"mi":"Y","mn":["1","2"]}}],"mo":"-"}},"mi":"StaticForce"},"msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"}},"mo":"-","munder":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"\u025b","mn":"0"},{"mi":"Z","mn":"1"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"dx"},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":[{"mn":"1","msubsup":{"mi":"Y","mn":["2","2"]}},{"mn":"1","msubsup":{"mi":"Y","mn":["1","2"]}}],"mo":"-"}},"msup":{"mi":"V","mn":"2"}},"mi":"ForceProportionaltoDisplacement"}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","1 ","0 ","2 ","1 ","1","1 ","y ","x ","1 ","2 ","1 ","2"],"b":["100","101","101","100","101"],"i":["a ","a","a ","b ","a "]},"From Equation 5 it is clear that if Yis set equal to Ythen the resulting quadrature-correction force, the component of force proportional to displacement, is zero: Fis independent of displacement along the X-direction. When Yis not equal to Y, Fis a function of relative X-axis displacement, and correspondingly appears as an off diagonal element when represented in spring matrix form. Since this spring-force may be adjusted by voltage V, it may be used to cancel off-axis spring terms due to, for instance, imperfections in the suspension. An important advantage of the present invention may now be noted. When the comb-finger capacitors comprise a conductive material, and the voltage across the comb-finger capacitor is provided by a low-impedance voltage source, such as the output of an operational amplifier connected in negative feedback, or a electrochemical battery, there is essentially zero phase error between proof-mass position along the drive-axis and the force F. An in-phase relationship between these two quantities enables effective cancellation of off-diagonal terms in the spring-matrix, thereby providing improved oscillation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B"],"b":["200","200","250","201","210","210","250","221","222","201","200","200","210","200","201","200","201"],"i":["a","b ","a","a ","a","b ","a ","a ","b ","a"]},"Since it is often desirable to maintain symmetry in a mechanical sense-element, multiple quadrature-error cancellation structures may be utilized, as shown in a third and fourth embodiment of the invention shown in  respectively. These embodiments have the ability to cancel both positive and negative quadrature-errors. Once again, for clarity, suspension elements, drive-capacitors and sense-capacitors are not shown.","In a third embodiment of the invention a single-mass gyroscope includes a quadrature-nulling structure comprising anchored comb fingers and ; proof-mass comb fingers and ; and proof-mass .  shows proof-mass motion with negative quadrature-error. The arrow on the proof-mass represents motion of the proof-mass under zero input rate: largely along the X-axis, or drive-axis, with a small component along the Y-axis or sense-axis.  shows that application of a voltage between comb-fingers and comb-fingers , may be used to provide a X-axis dependent force to proof-mass  having a Y-axis component. This Y-axis force, directed along the positive Y-axis, may be adjusted to result in a zero dynamic Y-axis displacement during motion along the X-axis, as shown in . Note that separate, independent voltages may be applied across both capacitors: the capacitor formed by fingers , and , and the capacitor formed by fingers , and . In this manner, voltages may be applied across both sets of capacitors to provide a biased operating point about which quadrature-error may be canceled. Operation about a biased operating point may be advantageous when quadrature error is very small, fluctuates between positive and negative, or a linear voltage to force relationship is desired.","While the third embodiment of the invention provides for cancellation of positive and negative quadrature-error, the lack of quadrature-error cancellation structures providing a net electrostatic attraction along the negative Y-axis may cause a static displacement along the Y-axis to occur when quadrature-error is canceled via application of voltage to the cancellation structures and under zero rate input. A fourth embodiment of the invention provides for cancellation of positive and negative quadrature-error, while enabling the static component of displacement along the Y-axis to be controlled.","In a fourth embodiment of the invention a single-mass gyroscope includes a balanced quadrature-nulling structure comprising anchored comb fingers , , , , , and , ; proof-mass comb fingers , , , and ; and proof-mass .  shows proof-mass motion with positive quadrature-error. The arrow on the proof-mass represents motion of the proof-mass under zero input rate: largely along the X-axis, or drive-axis, with a small component along the Y-axis or sense-axis.  shows that application of a voltage between comb-fingers and comb-fingers , in conjunction with application of a voltage between comb-fingers and comb-fingers , may be used to provide a X-axis dependent force to proof-mass . The Y-axis forces, may be adjusted to result in both a zero dynamic and a zero static Y-axis displacement during motion along the X-axis, as shown in . Note that this embodiment also provides for the operation about a biased operating point, in which each of the four capacitors include a nonzero voltage component across them: the capacitor formed by fingers , and , the capacitor formed by fingers , and , the capacitor formed by fingers , and , and the capacitor formed by fingers , and ","In a fifth embodiment of the invention, shown in , a dual-mass gyroscope includes a quadrature-nulling structure comprising anchored comb fingers , , , ; proof-mass comb fingers , ; and proof-masses , . In nominal operation, the proof-masses will be driven in an anti-phase manner along the X-axis.  shows differential proof-mass motion with quadrature-error which is hereby denoted as positive. The arrows on the proof-masses represent motion of the proof-masses under zero input rate: largely differential or anti-phase motion along the X-axis, or drive-axis, with a small differential component along the Y-axis or sense-axis.  shows that application of a voltage between comb-fingers and comb-fingers , may be used to provide a X-axis dependent force to proof-mass . The Y-axis force may be adjusted to result in zero differential dynamic Y-axis displacement during motion along the X-axis, as shown in . Note that this embodiment also provides for the operation about a biased operating point. While the fifth embodiment of the invention provides for cancellation of both positive and negative quadrature-error in a dual-mass gyroscope, the lack of quadrature-error cancellation structures providing a net electrostatic attraction along the negative Y-axis may cause a dynamic variation of common-mode displacement with a static differential component along the Y-axis to occur when quadrature-error is canceled via application of voltage to the cancellation structures and under zero rate input.","In a sixth embodiment of the invention, shown in , a dual- mass gyroscope includes a quadrature-nulling structure comprising anchored comb fingers , , , , , , , ; proof-mass comb fingers , , , ; and proof-masses . In nominal operation, the proof-masses will be driven in an anti-phase manner along the X-axis.  shows differential proof-mass motion with positive quadrature-error. The arrows on the proof-masses represent motion of the proof-masses under zero input rate: largely differential motion along the X-axis, or drive-axis, with a small differential component along the Y-axis or sense-axis.  shows that voltages may be chosen and applied across the four capacitors formed by the following capacitor pairs: (; ), (; ), (; ), (; ). The voltages may be used to provide X-axis dependent forces along the Y-axis to proof-masses . The Y-axis force may be adjusted to result in zero dynamic differential Y-axis displacement and zero dynamic common-mode Y-axis displacement during motion along the X-axis, as shown in . While dynamic common-mode Y-axis displacement may be attenuated, a static common-mode displacement with a static differential component may still remain.","In a seventh embodiment of the invention a dual-mass gyroscope includes a balanced quadrature-nulling structure for each proof-mass, the balanced quadrature-nulling structure being similar to the structure shown in  and .","Note that in these embodiments of the invention, fingers anchored to the substrate of each independent quadrature-nulling structure may be driven to different electrical potentials. In most cases the fingers anchored to the proof-masses will have similar potential with respect to each other; however, this constraint is not necessary to practice the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["720","703","701","702","702","708","710","711","713","707","714","709","712","700","704","705","706","730","731","705"],"i":["a ","a,b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["800","800","801","801","802","808","807","802","804","805","803","804","803","806","806","806","805","803","810","804","804"],"i":["a ","a ","a ","a "]},"In an alternative embodiment, oscillation sustaining loop output is substantially in phase with drive-mode velocity. In this case the demodulation signals provided to the two mixers are interchanged to correctly demodulate quadrature and Coriolis acceleration.","The schematic diagram of  includes circuit and signal processing elements represented as functional blocks. These functional blocks comprise well-known circuits and devices and are shown in block diagram form to avoid unnecessary distraction from the underlying invention. It is explicitly noted, however, that the functional blocks and feedback connections may operate in a continuous-time fashion, a sampled-data fashion, or a combination thereof.","Some prior-art active quadrature-error correction techniques require multiple electrical nodes closely-spaced adjacent to each other, resulting in increased parasitic capacitance, increased wiring complexity, and increased size. Depending on the technology in which the gyroscope and quadrature-nulling structures are formed, the present invention may be highly advantageous because only two electrical nodes are required for each independent quadrature-nulling structure, only one node being anchored to the substrate. Thus, interconnection between like comb-fingers of a quadrature-null ing structure is greatly simplified\u2014especially when fingers are formed in a single-crystal-silicon fabrication technology such as described in (Clark, et al., U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/322,381 filed May 28, 1999; Clark, et al., U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60\/127,973 filed Apr. 6, 1999; Brosnihan, et al., U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/874,568 filed Jun. 13, 1997; Diem, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,495,761 issued May 5, 1996; Offenberg, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,627,317 issued May 6, 1997; Shaw, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,719,073 issued Feb. 17, 1998). Simple interconnection may translate to significantly reduced pitch between adjacent quadrature-nulling finger-pairs thereby reducing sensor area. Furthermore, parasitic capacitance between adjacent sets of comb fingers may be reduced, as compared to prior-art quadrature-error cancellation structures (see for example Clark, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,992,233 issued Nov. 30, 1999; Clark, et al., U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/321,972 files May 28, 1999) leading to improved electrical characteristics when the quadrature-error cancellation structures are included in a feedback loop that measures the quadrature error and adjusts bias voltages accordingly. Furthermore, parasitic capacitance can slow settling and stability of voltages applied across quadrature-cancellation structures, thereby introducing a phase error between proof-mass position along the drive-axis and the force F.","The invention has been described as being especially advantageous when the structures are formed in a single-crystal-silicon fabrication technology. However, it is not necessary to form structures in a single-crystal silicon technology to practice the invention. The invention may be co-fabricated with integrated circuitry on a single chip using many fabrication methods including, but not limited to: surface micromachining, reactive ion etching, SOI-based micromachining, epi-polysilicon micromachining, or similar fabrication methods ortechnologies. Examples of some applicable fabrication technologies may be found in, for example: U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/127,973, filed Apr. 6, 1999; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/322,381, filed May 28, 1999; and US patents: Tsang, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,326,726, issued Jul. 5, 1994; Spangler, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,343,064, issued Aug. 30, 1994; Bashir, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,747,353, issued May 5, 1998; Montague, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,798,283, issued Aug. 25, 1998; Zhang, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,506,175 issued Apr. 9, 1996; Kung, U.S. Pat. No. 5,504,026, issued Apr. 2, 1996.","Alternatively, different components comprising the invention may be formed as discrete elements. For example, the sense element may be formed on a silicon or quartz substrate and the interface, control and signal processing circuitry may be formed on one or more separate substrates as described in, for example: U.S. patents: MacDonald, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,198,390, issued Mar. 30, 1993; Diem, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,576,250, issued Nov. 19, 1996; Field, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,882,532, issued Mar. 16, 1999; Smith, T. et. al., \u201cA 15b Electromechanical Sigma-Delta Converter for Acceleration Measurements,\u201d ISSCC Dig. Tech. Papers, pp. 160\u2013161, 1994. Alternatively, the sense-element may be bulk-micromachined by any of a number of well-known methods, interface, control and signal processing circuitry may be formed on one or more separate substrates, and the electrical and mechanical substrates may be connected by one or more wire bonds.","The foregoing description, for the purposes of explanation, used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. Thus, the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for the purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed, obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For example, the invention may be used to obtain improved performance in single-mass frame-based or dual-mass frame-based gyroscopes, such as those described in (Geen, J., \u201cA path to low cost gyroscopy,\u201d IEEE Solid-State Sensor and Actuator Workshop, Hilton Head Island, S.C., Jun. 8\u201311, 1998, pp 51\u20134; Schumacher, K. et al., \u201cMicromechanical Liga-Gyroscope\u201d, Transducers 99, June 7\u201310 Sendai Japan, pp 1574\u20131577.), by providing improved drive-axis oscillation. The quadrature-error cancellation structures may also be used to adjust a compliant mode in a non-vibrating microstructure, such as an accelerometer, so that the compliant mode more accurately aligns with a predetermined direction\u2014providing improved package alignment, for example. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a better understanding of the nature and objects of the invention, reference should be made to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 5B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
