---
title: Apparatus for controlling a premises from a remote location
abstract: An apparatus and method of controlling a premises from a remote network device communicates with the remote network device via a local computer network associated with the premises. Specifically, the apparatus includes a peripheral device configured to execute a specific function at the premises, a communication engine operably coupled with the peripheral device for providing a logical connection with the remote network device via the local computer network, and a network interface operably coupled with the communication engine. The network interface transmits data to and receives data from the local computer network. Data transferred between the peripheral device and local computer network is forwarded via the network interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09250267&OS=09250267&RS=09250267
owner: AVAYA INC.
number: 09250267
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20001030
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention relates generally to data transmission networks and, more particularly, the invention relates to network devices used to control a premises from a remote location via a computer network.","Various devices have been developed to control and\/or monitor a site from a remote location. For example, many fire alarm systems in high rise buildings include the functionality to alert a remotely located fire station if a fire is detected in such buildings. Specifically, such a fire alarm system commonly includes a plurality of remote smoke\/fire detectors and alarms that all are directly connected (e.g., via a twisted pair) to a central control panel. When one of the detectors senses a fire and\/or smoke in the building, it transmits a signal to the central control panel, which consequently sets off the alarms. People who hear the alarms thus may evacuate the building.","The central control panel may include a modem that transmits a signal to the fire station when one or more of the remote detectors senses a fire. This signal is a direct circuit switched connection via the public switched telephone network (\u201cPSTN\u201d). To establish such a connection, the fire station must have a modem that can communicate with the modem on the central control panel. Problems arise, however, when something goes wrong at the fire station, or when the PSTN suffers some kind of link failure. In such case, the signal to the fire station is not properly transmitted to the fire station, thus eliminating the intended benefit of such a connection.","This type of alarm system also has service problems. Namely, if there is a mechanical problem with the fire alarm system, then the company servicing the system cannot diagnose the problem remotely. Accordingly, a technician must be sent to the building, thus incurring travel cost.","In accordance with one aspect of the invention, an apparatus and method of controlling a premises by messages received from a remote network device communicates with the remote network device via a local computer network associated with the premises. Specifically, the apparatus includes a peripheral device configured to execute a specific function at the premises, a communication engine operably coupled with the peripheral device for providing a logical connection with the remote network device via the local computer network, and a network interface operably coupled with the communication engine. The network interface transmits data to and receives data from the local computer network. Data transferred between the peripheral device and local computer network is forwarded via the network interface.","In some embodiments, the local computer network is a local area network using the Ethernet protocol, and the communication engine is an Ethernet controller. Accordingly, the communication engine translates data into frames for transmission across the network. The communication engine also may translate data from frames and forward such translated data to the peripheral device. The local computer network may be a power integrated network that transmits both power and data. The apparatus also may include a power circuit for converting power.","The peripheral device may be one or more of many different types of devices. Specifically, the peripheral device may be a door strike controller. In such case, the peripheral device also may include a sensor for identifying a person requesting access to the premises. The peripheral device also may include an alarm, a light, and\/or a speaker.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, an apparatus for controlling a door strike includes a mechanical strike control mechanism adapted to alternatively lock and unlock the door strike, a communication engine for communicating with a remote network device via a local computer network, and a strike controller operably coupled with the communication engine. The communication engine forms a logical connection with the remote network device via the local computer network. The strike controller causes the strike control mechanism to lock or unlock the door strike after receipt of a strike message from the remote network device. The strike message includes data that controls the strike control mechanism to lock or unlock the door strike.","In various embodiments, the remote network device may be coupled with a public network. The remote network device thus may communicate with the local computer network via the public network. In other embodiments, the strike control mechanism may include a solenoid that is controlled by a switch. A feedback module adapted to generate a feedback message with data for use by the remote network device also may be included. The feedback message indicates data indicating the state of the strike control mechanism. The apparatus also may include a tamper module that determines if the apparatus has been altered. The apparatus may be deemed to be altered if somebody tampered with its electronics or any part of its mechanical components. The tamper module may be adapted to generate a tamper message for transmission to the remote network device. The tamper message indicates if the apparatus has been altered. The tamper module may include the functionality to shut-off the apparatus if the apparatus has been altered.","In accordance with other aspects of the invention, an access control device for permitting a set of users to access a site also is coupled with a local computer network. Each user in the set of users has user parameters. The access control device includes a communication engine for communicating with a remote network device via the local computer network, a presence sensor having an input to receive user parameters, and a controller operably coupled with the communication engine. In a manner similar to other embodiments, the communication engine forms a logical connection with the remote network device. The controller is capable of both forwarding the received user parameters to the remote network device, and receiving an access message from the remote network device if the received user parameters match the user parameters of at least one of the set of users. The controller permits access to the site after receipt of the access message.","In accordance with still another aspect of the invention, an annunciator system for alerting people of an event within a site similarly is coupled with a local computer network. The annunciator system includes a communication engine for communicating with a remote network device via the local computer network, and an alarm providing an output stimulus both after detecting an environmental condition of the site and after receipt of an alarm message. The communication engine forms a logical connection with the remote network device. The annunciator system also includes a feedback module operably coupled with the communication engine for forwarding a state message (to the remote network device) identifying the state of the alarm, and an alarm control module operably coupled with the communication engine. The alarm control module forwards the alarm message to the alarm.","In illustrative embodiments, a network appliance at a local site is controlled by a remote network device via a local computer network. For example, the local network may be coupled with a public network, consequently enabling the appliance to communicate with the remote network device by means of a network layer protocol (e.g., the Internet Protocol). In other embodiments, a link layer protocol may be used. Accordingly, instead of a circuit switched connection, a logical connection is considered to exist between the network appliance and the remote network device. Such logical connection is controlled by an underlying data transport protocol and does not require a direct, circuit-switched type of connection. Details of various embodiments are discussed below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","14","14","12","24","10","10","14","16","12","16"]},"To ensure rapid data transmission rates, the local computer network  is coupled with the ISP  via a high speed data transmission line , such as a T1 line. In alternative embodiments, a server  (discussed below) in the local computer network  is coupled with the ISP  by other known means, such as by a cable modem or telephone modem. Even though a portion of the connection may use the PSTN (i.e., the public switched telephone network) in some embodiments, the connection between the server  and the remote host  still remains a logical connection since data is transmitted to the remote host  using a network layer protocol (e.g., the Internet Protocol). Accordingly, data receipt by the remote host  is dependent upon its logical location (i.e., its IP address) and not upon its physical location.","The local computer network  may be any type of local computer network, such as a local area network that operates according to the Ethernet protocol. It should be noted, however, that like various other details of illustrative embodiments noted herein, discussion of an Ethernet network is exemplary and thus, not intended to limit embodiments of the invention. Accordingly, embodiments of the invention can be applied to other types of local computer networks, such as Token Ring local area networks.","In illustrative embodiments, the local computer network  is a power integrated network. Namely, the term \u201cpower integrated network\u201d refers to a local network that transmits both power and data to member computer systems in the network. Such power may or may not be used by the member computer systems. Among other ways, the power and data may be transmitted on a single cable via different wires, or via the same wire. Illustrative power integrated networks include Power Ethernet networks, which implement the proposed IEEE 802.3af standard. Currently, this standard is in draft form and is expected to be completed and adopted sometime in late 2001. Computer systems utilizing this standard are capable of receiving power (e.g., about fourteen watts) and data from a computer cable across an IEEE DTE (data terminal equipment) through a MDI (media dependent interface) compliant port. It should be noted, however, that although Power Ethernet and this IEEE standard are discussed, various embodiments are not limited to such standard. Accordingly, various embodiments can be used on other types of networks that transmit both power and data.","The local computer network  includes the above noted server , which is coupled with three personal computers  and two network appliances . The server  may be any type of server used in a local area network. For example, the server  may be a stand-alone hardware server, or a software server implemented on a router or multiplexer. It also should be noted that different numbers of personal computers  and network appliances  than those shown may be used in the local computer network . In fact, in some embodiments, the local computer network  includes network appliances only.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["24","24","26","26","26"]},"To that end, the network appliance  includes a local area network interface (\u201cLAN interface \u201d) that is configured to be coupled with the server  (i.e., the local computer network ), a communication engine  to control data transmission across the local computer network  and public network , and a power supply  to receive and convert power received from the power integrated network for use by the appliance . In addition, the appliance  also includes a peripheral controller  that is pre-configured with the logic to control the attached peripheral device , and a peripheral connector  for easily coupling the peripheral device  with the appliance .","In illustrative embodiments, the power supply  is a simple down converter that converts an incoming DC voltage to a lower DC level. In some embodiments, the power supply  is not necessary when the network appliance  is configured to operate with the exact power being supplied by the local network . When not used with a power integrated network, the power supply  can include more complex circuitry, such as rectification and smoothing circuitry. Moreover, the LAN interface  can be a conventional plug for plugging into the Ethernet network .","The peripheral device  preferably is easily separable from the rest of the appliance. Specifically, the LAN interface , power supply , communication engine , peripheral controller , and peripheral connector  may be considered to be a single operating unit to which the peripheral device  is connected. Simple mechanical connectors can connect the peripheral device  to the single operating unit. For example, the peripheral connector  may include three connecting fingers (not shown) that mate with corresponding holes on the peripheral device . The mating may occur through any conventional means, such as by twisting, or with the fingers acting as leaf springs. Once connected, electrical leads of the various components are positioned to effectively electrically couple all components of the single unit with the peripheral device . Use of this simple connection simplifies repair of the network appliance.","In some embodiments, the above noted single operating unit is programmable to be used with multiple different types of peripheral devices . Such type of unit thus may include a single common interface having a standard set of specified commands to communicate with the different peripheral devices . The interface may include, for example, an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["30","24","30","38","40","30","42","44","24","30","46","30","12","48","30"]},"In illustrative embodiments, the central processing unit  is a relatively low power, high performance microprocessor. For example, a CRUSOE\u2122 microprocessor executing an operating system based upon the VXWORKS\u2122 operating system may be used for such purposes. The CRUSOE\u2122 microprocessor is distributed by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara, Calif. The VXWORKS\u2122 operating system is distributed by Wind River Systems, Inc. of Alameda, Calif. Of course, use of these elements is not necessary since other processors and operating systems may be used. Discussion of these elements thus are for illustrative purposes only.","The IP stack  preferably includes the link layer, network layer, and transport layer (i.e., layers two, three, and four, respectively, of the OSI model) software and\/or hardware that permits the network appliance  to transmit to and receive data from the remote host  via the local computer network . In illustrative embodiments, the communication engine  is an Ethernet controller that includes code for implementing the Ethernet protocol, and code for implementing TCP\/IP (i.e., Transmission Control Protocol with the Internet Protocol).","The multicast processor module  preferably is a software device that implements one or more multicast protocols (e.g., Protocol Independent Multicast, also known as \u201cPIM\u201d). Accordingly, the multicast processor module  includes the functionality to transmit data messages to a specified set of other network devices either on the local computer network , or across the Internet . For example, if one network appliance  includes a fire alarm, then the multicast processor module  may transmit an alarm message to the remote host  notifying it of an emergency (e.g., a fire in the building). In addition, the multicast processor module  also may transmit the same alarm message to specified other network appliances  acting as a fire alarms. Upon receipt of the alarm message, each other such network appliance  also may sound its local alarm, thus providing warning of the emergency condition.","As noted above, the control and diagnostic module  controls the communication engine , and provides diagnostic capabilities. For example, an operator at the remote host  may transmit a message inquiring about whether the peripheral device  is connected to the appliance . The control and diagnostic module  consequently may determine, via conventional means, if such device is connected. If not connected, then the control and diagnostic module  may transmit a reply message back to the remote host  indicating that no peripheral device  is connected. This saves the trouble of having to send a technician to the site to make this determination. Of course, discussion of this diagnostic function is exemplary and thus, not intended to limit the scope of the invention. The control and diagnostic module  therefore may be configured to perform other diagnostic functions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIGS. 4-8","FIG. 2","FIG. 4"],"b":["24","24","24"]},"The access controller A includes a LAN interface A for interfacing with the local computer network , a power supply A, and an Ethernet controller A, each of which are discussed above. In addition, the access controller A also includes a sensor A to sense a person's presence, a sensor connector A for mechanically connecting the sensor A to the appliance A, and a sensor controller A for controlling operation of the sensor A and appliance A. Each of the functional modules in the access controller A (i.e., the Ethernet controller A, sensor controller A, sensor connector A\u2014if necessary, and sensor A) receive power, during operation, from the power supply A.","The sensor controller A includes a tamper module A for detecting whether the appliance A has been altered (discussed below), and a shut-off switch A for shutting off the sensor A if it has been determined that the appliance A has been altered. The appliance A may be deemed to have been altered according to any known method, such as by detecting if some specified mechanical or electrical change has occurred to the appliance A since the device was powered-up. For example, the tamper module A may include a sensor that detects if the housing (not shown) surrounding the appliance A has been removed. If removed, then the tamper module A may transmit a signal to the shut-off module, thereby cutting power from the power supply A to the other functional modules. As a further example, the tamper module A may include circuitry to detect if power from the power supply A has been interrupted since power-up. Such interruption can suggest that somebody has tampered with the wires of the appliance A. Accordingly, in such instance, the tamper module A can cut power from the power supply A and\/or notify the remote host .","The sensor A may be any type of presence detector. For example, the sensor A may be a card swipe device that reads code from a card inserted into it, and permits access when the code matches one of a set of preselected codes. In other embodiments, the sensor A may be another type of sensor, such as a biometric sensor. For example, the sensor A may be responsive to some physical characteristic of a person, such as a person's retina or finger print, or be responsive to a person's voice. Any type of sensor known in the art that may be configured to cooperate with the appliance A may be used.","When in use, the presence of a person requesting access (\u201crequestor\u201d) is detected by the sensor A. As noted above, this can include any type of sensor. If a voice sensor is used, then the requestor speaks into a microphone. The sensor controller A thus may include a codec that converts the voice signal into an electronic signal. The sensor controller A then forwards this electronic signal, along with instructions to transmit the signal to the remote host , to the Ethernet controller A. After receipt, the IP stack  of the Ethernet controller A encodes the signal into packets for transmission to the remote host . Once transmitted through the LAN interface A, the data is transmitted from the server , to the ISP , across the Internet , to the remote host .","The remote host  may have a local database listing voice patterns of people who can access the site being protected by the access controller A. Accordingly, upon receipt, the remote host  parses the packetized data to determine the origin of the message (i.e., the site being protected), and then accesses the local database to determine if the voice data matches a stored voice pattern for such site in the database. If a match occurs, then the remote host  will transmit an access message via TCP\/IP back to the access controller A.","Upon receipt of the access message through the LAN interface A, the Ethernet controller A assembles the actual data from the packets, and then forwards such data to the sensor controller A. The sensor controller A then indicates to a door controller (see ) that access is permitted. To that end, a signal requesting that the door be unlocked is transmitted to the door controller, thus unlocking the door and permitting access to the site.","If the remote host  does not find a matching stored voice pattern in the local database, then appropriate action may be taken. In particular, a message may be sent to a security desk indicating that an unauthorized person is attempting to access the site. Some embodiments store data of specified people who are not permitted to access the site. For example, a former employee who works for a competitor may be specifically denied access. In such case, security may be called, and the people who control the site are on notice about actions of specified people.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["24","24","24","28","10","32","30","24","34","26","36","26","26","26","27","29","27","29","31","24","34","50","50","24"]},"As suggested above, the door strike controller B may be controlled by a local access controller, such as that shown in , or some other local network device on the local computer network . In a manner similar to the access controller A, however, the door strike controller B also may be controlled by the remote host . To that end, the remote host  may transmit a strike message across the Internet , which is received by the Ethernet controller B via the LAN interface B. After it is withdrawn from data packets, the strike message is forwarded to the controller B. Based upon the commands in the strike message, the controller B then determines whether the door strike is to be in the unlocked or locked position. Once this is determined, the controller B forwards a command to the control switch B to either unlock or lock the strike. The control switch B consequently switches current on in a specified direction within the solenoid B, depending upon whether it is to lock or unlock the strike. The feedback path B can transmit a signal to the controller B, confirming that the commands within the strike message were properly executed.","The remote host  also can determine if the strike is in an unlocked position or a locked position. Stated another way, the remote host  can determine the status of the door strike. In some embodiments, the controller B is coupled with a strike sensor (not shown) that determines whether the strike is in the locked position or unlocked position. The strike sensor may be any type of sensor, such as a microswitch that mechanically is contacted by the strike when in one position, or a magnetic field detector (e.g., a Hall sensor) that detects the position of a magnet on the strike.","To determine the status of the strike, the remote host  can transmit a status inquiry to the door strike controller B. Upon receipt, the controller B uses the sensor to determine if the strike is in the locked position or unlocked position. Once it determines the state, the controller B can transmit a state message to the remote host  indicating the state of the strike. Of course, all transmissions include use of the logical connection between the door strike controller B and the remote host .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIGS. 6-8","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["24","24","26","26","26","26","23","25","24","28","28","28","32","32","32","30","30","30","24","34","34","34","36","36","36","27","27","27","27","27","27","39","39","39","39","39","39","39","39","39","34","34","34","31","31","31","34","34","34"]},"Use of the alarm G now will be discussed. It should be noted that the description may mention an element with three corresponding reference numbers. For example, the feedback path may be followed by reference numbers C, D, and E. Of course, only one of such type of element (e.g., only one feedback path) is necessary, however, when executing the noted functions. Inclusion of all three corresponding reference numbers is for completeness only.","When in use, the remote host  may transmit a status inquiry message requesting the status of the peripheral (e.g., it may request information to determine if the strobe C is flashing and\/or if it is operational). After receipt of the status inquiry message, the controller C, D, and E may first determine the status of the peripheral via the feedback line C, D, and E, and then transmit a status reply to the remote host . The status reply includes data indicating the status of the peripheral.","The multicast processor module  in the Ethernet controller C, D, and E may be used to notify all alarms in the local computer network  of an emergency condition. For example, each alarm G may be on a different floor in a multi-story building. If a fire is detected on one floor, such alarm G may access its multicast table to determine the MAC address of the other alarms G on other floors in the building. Once determined, the multicast processor module  may multicast an alarm message with instructions to all other alarms G in the local computer network . Such instructions may cause the receiving alarms G to energize their peripheral (e.g., their horn or strobe). The multicast processor module  also may multicast the alarm message to the remote host , thus alerting the remote host  of the sensed condition and\/or the state of the peripheral.","As noted above, different peripherals can be used, such as a thermometer, radio, video monitor, etc. . . . Accordingly, use of a logical connection provides a more reliable system since the message can be directed to the remote host  through a plurality of different routes. In addition, use of a power integrated network simplifies installation since separate power electronics are not required to be installed and\/or included in the appliance. Remote access by the remote host  also reduces diagnostic and repair costs since a service call is not necessary for many common problems. Moreover, use of a simple connector A-E for connecting the peripheral significantly simplifies repair in the event that the peripheral must be replaced.","As suggested above, some embodiments of the invention may be implemented at least in part in any conventional computer programming language comprising computer program code. For example, preferred embodiments may be implemented in a procedural programming language (e.g., \u201cC\u201d) or an object oriented programming language (e.g., \u201cC++\u201d). Alternative embodiments of the invention may be implemented as preprogrammed hardware elements (e.g., application specific integrated circuits, FPGAs, and digital signal processors), or other related components.","Although various exemplary embodiments of the invention have been disclosed, it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made that will achieve some of the advantages of the invention without departing from the true scope of the invention. These and other obvious modifications are intended to be covered by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing description of various embodiments of the invention should be appreciated more fully from the following further description thereof with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
