---
title: Pattern recognition training method and apparatus using inserted noise followed by noise reduction
abstract: A method and apparatus for training and using a pattern recognition model are provided. Under the invention, additive noise that matches noise expected in a test signal is included in a training signal. The noisy training signal is passed through one or more noise reduction techniques to produce pseudo-clean training data. The pseudo-clean training data is used to train the pattern recognition model. When the test signal is received, it is passed through the same noise reduction techniques used on the noisy training signal. This produces pseudo-clean test data, which is applied to the pattern recognition model. Under one embodiment, sets of training data are produced with each set containing a different type of noise.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06876966&OS=06876966&RS=06876966
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 06876966
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20001016
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present invention relates to pattern recognition. In particular, the present invention relates to training models for pattern recognition.","A pattern recognition system, such as a speech recognition system, takes an input signal and attempts to decode the signal to find a pattern represented by the signal. For example, in a speech recognition system, a speech signal (often referred to as a test signal) is received by the recognition system and is decoded to identify a string of words represented by the speech signal.","To decode the incoming test signal, most recognition systems utilize one or more models that describe the likelihood that a portion of the test signal represents a particular pattern. Examples of such models include Neural Nets, Dynamic Time Warping, segment models, and Hidden Markov Models.","Before a model can be used to decode an incoming signal, it must be trained. This is typically done by measuring input training signals generated from a known training pattern. For example, in speech recognition, a collection of speech signals is generated by speakers reading from a known text. These speech signals are then used to train the models.","In order for the models to work optimally in decoding an input test signal, the signals used to train the model should be similar to the eventual test signals that are decoded. In particular, the training signals should have the same amount and type of noise as the test signals that are decoded.","To achieve the same noise characteristics in the training signal, some prior art systems collect the training signal under the same conditions that are expected to be present when the test signal is generated. For example, speech training signals are collected in the same noisy environments where the speech recognition system will be used. Other systems collect the training data under relatively noiseless (or \u201cclean\u201d) conditions and then add the expected noise to the clean training data.","Although adding noise to the training data or collecting training data in a noisy environment often brings the training data more in alignment with the test data, it is impossible to fully anticipate the noise that will be present in the test environment. Because of this, simply using noisy training data does not optimize the performance of the pattern recognition system.","Other prior art systems have attempted to match the training data and the testing data by applying noise reduction techniques to the testing data. In such systems, the training data is generated under substantially \u201cclean\u201d conditions so as to minimize its noise content. The noise reduction techniques are then applied to the testing data to bring the testing data closer to the clean condition of the training data. However, current noise reduction techniques are imperfect and cannot remove all of the noise in the test data. Because of this, the training data and the testing data remain mismatched even after the noise reduction.","Thus, the prior art techniques for matching training data noise to testing data noise are less than ideal.","A method and apparatus for training and using a pattern recognition model are provided. Under the invention, additive noise that matches noise expected in a test signal is included in a training signal. The noisy training signal is passed through one or more noise reduction techniques to produce pseudo-clean training data. The pseudo-clean training data is then used to train the pattern recognition model.","When the test signal is received, it is passed through the same noise reduction techniques used on the noisy training signal. This produces pseudo-clean test data that better matches the pseudo-clean training data. The pseudo-clean test data is then applied to the pattern recognition model to determine the most likely pattern represented by the test signal.","Under one embodiment, sets of training data are produced with each set containing a different type of noise. For example, one set may include fan noise from a computer while another set may include keyboard noise. Under such embodiments, each set of training data may be passed through the same noise reduction techniques or different sets of training data may be passed through different noise reduction techniques.","Under one embodiment, when different noise reduction techniques are used for different sets of training data, the noise in the test data is sampled to identify a particular set of training data that contains a similar type of noise. The noise reduction technique applied to the best matching training data is then applied to the test data to form the pseudo-clean test data.","In other embodiments where different noise reduction techniques are used for different sets of training data or for the same set of training data, the test data is passed through the different noise reduction techniques producing multiple different versions of pseudo-clean test data. Each of these separate forms of pseudo-clean test data is then applied to the models to determine a probability for a pattern. The proper noise reduction technique to apply to the test data is then implicitly selected by selecting the form or combination of forms of the pseudo-clean test data that produces the highest probability pattern.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00029","num":"00029"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","The invention may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by a computer. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general-purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus also known as Mezzanine bus.","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, FR, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during startup, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way o example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk  such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a non-removable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in , provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies.","A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard , a microphone , and a pointing device , such as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. Other input devices (not shown) may include a joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor, computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a hand-held device, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00040","num":"00040"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","206","208","210"]},"Memory  is implemented as non-volatile electronic memory such as random access memory (RAM) with a battery back-up module (not shown) such that information stored in memory  is not lost when the general power to mobile device  is shut down. A portion of memory  is preferably allocated as addressable memory for program execution, while another portion of memory  is preferably used for storage, such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.","Memory  includes an operating system , application programs  as well as an object store . During operation, operating system  is preferably executed by processor  from memory . Operating system , in one preferred embodiment, is a WINDOWS\u00ae CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system  is preferably designed for mobile devices, and implements database features that can be utilized by applications  through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store  are maintained by applications  and operating system , at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.","Communication interface  represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device  to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems, satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device  can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases, communication interface  can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection, all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.","Input\/output components  include a variety of input devices such as a touch-sensitive screen, buttons, rollers, and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator, a vibrating device, and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition, other input\/output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device  within the scope of the present invention.","Under the present invention, an apparatus and method are provided that improve the matching of noise between training data and test data.  shows one embodiment of a method for performing such matching.","In step  of , raw training data is created that includes anticipated additive noise. This anticipated additive noise is similar to the noise that is expected to be present in the test data. This anticipated additive noise can be placed in the training data by having a trainer speak in a noisy environment such as a train platform, a car, or an industrial environment. In other embodiments, the trainer speaks in a relatively noiseless environment and additive noise is then added to the \u201cclean\u201d training speech signals. The noise added to the clean training signal can be noise that is recorded from selected noisy environments, such as those listed above or noise that has the same statistical properties as the anticipated noise.","At step  of , the noisy training data is applied to a noise reduction module which applies one or more noise reduction techniques to the noisy training data. These noise reduction techniques can include but are not limited to Spectral Subtraction or Stereo Piecewise Linear Compensation for Environments (SPLICE). In addition, more than one noise reduction technique may be applied to the noisy data.","Because no noise reduction technique is capable of removing all noise from a signal, the output of the noise reduction module is only \u201cpseudoclean\u201d training data. Under this embodiment of the present invention, this pseudo-clean training data is used to train a pattern model that will later be used to detect the most likely pattern that can be represented by a given test signal. This training is shown as step  in FIG. .","The models that are trained under the present invention can include, but are not limited to, Neural Nets, Dynamic Time warping, segment models, and Hidden Markov Models.","Once the model has been trained, test data is received by the speech recognition system at step . The same noise reduction techniques that were applied to the noisy training data are then applied to the test data to produce pseudo-clean test data. These noise reduction techniques are applied at step  of FIG. .","By applying the same noise reduction techniques to the test data that were applied to the training data, the present invention brings the test data into a pseudo-clean state that more closely matches the pseudo-clean state of the training data.","The pseudo-clean test data is applied against the trained model at step  to decode the test data and determine the most likely pattern that is represented by the test data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00053","num":"00053"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","402","404","406","402","404","402","406"]},"A-to-D converter  converts the analog signal from microphone  into a series of digital values. In several embodiments, A-to-D converter  samples the analog signal at 16 kHz and 16 bits per sample, thereby creating 32 kilobytes of speech data per second.","The digital data created by A-to-D converter  is provided to a noise reduction module , which removes some of the noise in the digital signal using one or more noise reduction techniques. Such noise reduction techniques include but are not limited to Spectral Subtraction or Stereo Piecewise Linear Compensation for Environments (SPLICE).","The output of noise reduction module  is provided to feature extractor , which extracts a feature from the digital speech signal. Examples of feature extraction modules include modules for performing Linear Predictive Coding (LPC), LPC derived cepstrum, Perceptive Linear Prediction (PLP), Auditory model feature extraction, and Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficients (MFCC) feature extraction. Note that the invention is not limited to these feature extraction modules and that other modules may be used within the context of the present invention.","The feature extraction module receives the stream of digital values from noise reduction module  and produces a stream of feature vectors that are each associated with a frame of the speech signal. In many embodiments, the centers of the frames are separated by 10 milliseconds.","Note that although noise reduction module  is shown before feature extractor  in the embodiment of , in other embodiments, noise reduction module  appears after feature extractor .","The stream of feature vectors produced by the extraction module is provided to a decoder , which identifies a most likely sequence of words based on the stream of feature vectors, a lexicon , a language model , and an acoustic model .","In some embodiments, acoustic model  is a Hidden Markov Model consisting of a set of hidden states. Each linguistic unit represented by the model consists of a subset of these states. For example, in one embodiment, each phoneme is constructed of three interconnected states. Each state has an associated set of probability distributions that in combination allow efficient computation of the likelihoods against any arbitrary sequence of input feature vectors for each sequence of linguistic units (such as words). The model also includes probabilities for transitioning between two neighboring model states as well as allowed transitions between states for particular linguistic units. By selecting the states that provide the highest combination of matching probabilities and transition probabilities for the input feature vectors, the model is able to assign linguistic units to the speech. For example, if a phoneme was constructed of states 0, 1 and 2 and if the first three frames of speech matched state 0, the next two matched state 1 and the next three matched state 2, the model would assign the phoneme to these eight frames of speech.","Note that the size of the linguistic units can be different for different embodiments of the present invention. For example, the linguistic units may be senones, phonemes, noise phones, diphones, triphones, or other possibilities.","In other embodiments, acoustic model  is a segment model that indicates how likely it is that a sequence of feature vectors would be produced by a segment of a particular duration. The segment model differs from the frame-based model because it uses multiple feature vectors at the same time to make a determination about the likelihood of a particular segment. Because of this, it provides a better model of large-scale transitions in the speech signal. In addition, the segment model looks at multiple durations for each segment and determines a separate probability for each duration. As such, it provides a more accurate model for segments that have longer durations. Several types of segment models may be used with the present invention including probabilistic-trajectory segmental Hidden Markov Models.","Language model  provides a set of likelihoods that a particular sequence of words will appear in the language of interest. In many embodiments, the language model is based on a text database such as the North American Business News (NAB), which is described in greater detail in a publication entitled CSR-III Text Language Model, University of Penn., 1994. The language model may be a context-free grammar or a statistical N-gram model such as a trigram. In one embodiment, the language model is a compact trigram model that determines the probability of a sequence of words based on the combined probabilities of three-word segments of the sequence.","Based on the acoustic model, the language model, and the lexicon, decoder  identifies a most likely sequence of words from all possible word sequences. The particular method used for decoding is not important to the present invention and any of several known methods for decoding may be used.","The most probable sequence of hypothesis words is provided to a confidence measure module . Confidence measure module  identifies which words are most likely to have been improperly identified by the speech recognizer, based in part on a secondary frame-based acoustic model. Confidence measure module  then provides the sequence of hypothesis words to an output module  along with identifiers indicating which words may have been improperly identified. Those skilled in the art will recognize that confidence measure module  is not necessary for the practice of the present invention.","Acoustic model  above is trained by a trainer  based on a training text  and the features extracted by feature extractor  from one or more training speech signals associated with training text . Any suitable training method that is appropriate for the particular model may be used within the scope of the present invention.","As discussed above, the training speech signals include additive noise that is partially removed by noise reduction model  to produce pseudo-clean data. One possible noise reduction technique that can be used under the present invention is spectral subtraction. In spectral subtraction, noise in the speech signal is sampled and the samples are converted to the frequency domain. The frequency content of the noise is then subtracted from a frequency representation of the speech signal to produce a pseudo-clean speech signal.","As shown in , the noise can be sampled from the speech data by sampling the speech signal during pauses in the actual speech. In , an example of a noisy speech signal is shown with time along horizontal axis  and the amplitude of the speech signal shown along vertical axis . In , the speech signal includes an active speech area  and two pauses  and . The active speech portion  of the speech signal has a higher energy content than the pauses  and . By sampling the speech signal during pauses  and , the background noise can be separated from the speech content of the signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00069","num":"00069"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["506","5","600","602","604"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00070","num":"00070"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["408","410","4","408","410","408","410"]},"In , the digital values from analog-to-digital converter  are provided to a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) module . FFT  converts the time-domain digital values into a series of frequency-domain values describing the frequency content of frames of the speech signal.","The frequency domain values produced by FFT  are provided to a noise identification module . Noise identification module  looks at the energy content of the frequency domain values of each frame to identify whether the current portion of the speech signal represents active speech or a pause in speech. Techniques for identifying pauses in speech are well known in the art.","The frequency-domain values produced by FFT  are also provided to a weighting module  that receives control values from noise identification module  and has access to a memory containing past noise samples . When noise identification module  determines that the current section of speech corresponds to a pause in speech, it activates weighting module  to generate a new set of noise reduction values.","Under one embodiment, weighting module  produces the noise reduction values by combining the last \u201cN\u201d noise frames from the speech signal. These past \u201cN\u201d frames are recovered from memory . Under one embodiment, weighting module  combines the past \u201cN\u201d noise frames by more heavily weighting the more recent noise frames relative to the older noise frames in memory . As part of its processing of the new noise correction value, weighting module  also stores the current noise frame in memory .","The correction values produced by weighting module  are stored in a memory  that is accessed by a spectral subtractor . Spectral subtractor  also receives the frequency domain values from FFT . For each frequency associated with the correction values stored in memory , spectral subtractor  subtracts the corresponding value in memory  from the frequency-domain value provided by FFT . This results in pseudo-clean frequency domain values at the output of spectral subtractor .","The pseudo-clean frequency values output by spectral subtractor  are provided to a log module , which takes the log of each of the values. The log values are then provided to an inverse Fast Fourier Transform  which takes the inverse Fast Fourier Transform of the log values to produce a set of Cepstral coefficients for each frame of the speech signal. These sets of Cepstral coefficients represent the output of the feature extractor.","In other embodiments, the present invention uses Stereo Piecewise Linear Compensation for Environments (SPLICE) as the noise reduction technique. The SPLICE noise reduction technique is discussed in detail in a U.S. Patent Application entitled METHOD OF NOISE REDUCTION USING CORRECTION VECTORS, filed on Oct. 16, 2000, having U.S. Ser. No. 09\/688,764 and hereby incorporated by reference.","Under the SPLICE technique, noise is reduced by estimating the most likely clean feature vector that could be represented by a noisy feature vector from a noisy pattern signal. This is done by selecting a correction vector to add to the noisy feature vector to form the clean feature vector. To select the correction vector, the method determines which of a set of mixture components the noisy feature vector best matches. The correction vector associated with that mixture component is then added to the noisy feature vector.","Each correction vector is formed in part by subtracting a sequence of noisy channel feature vectors from a sequence of clean channel feature vectors, where the noisy channel and the clean channel contain the same speech signal, but where the noisy channel has additive noise. Typically, the correction vectors are formed before either the training data or test data are provided to the noise reduction module.","In one embodiment of the present invention, multiple sets of training data are used to incorporate multiple types of noisy environments in the training model. Thus, under one embodiment some training data is collected at a train platform, while other data is collected in a car, and still further data is collected in an airplane.  provides a flow diagram of one method under the present invention for training a model using multiple sets of training data.","In step  of , one set of training data with additive noise is created, by for example having a trainer speak in a selected noisy environment. In step , one or more noise reduction techniques are applied to the set of training data. The noise reduction techniques applied to the training data in step  can be the same for each type of noisy environment or may be tailored for the specific noisy environment upon which the noise reduction techniques are being applied.","In step , the method determines if there is another set of training data to be collected. If there is another set, the process returns to step . Under one embodiment of the invention, each set of training data is associated with a different type of noise. Thus, one set may contain air-conditioning noise, and another may contain background speech noise.","If there are no other sets of data, the process continues at step  where the acoustic model is trained using all of the sets of pseudo-clean training data that result from the noise reduction techniques of step .","By using noise reduction techniques against multiple sets of training data that are each associated with different types of noise, the embodiments of the present invention produce more sharply defined models. This can be seen in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00085","num":"00085"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["900","902","904","906","908"]},"When the probability distributions of  are combined to form a single model for the unit of speech, a probability distribution such as distribution  of  is created. As in , the values of the feature vectors are shown along horizontal axis  and the probability of the unit of speech is shown along vertical axis .","Because probability distributions ,  and  are spread out along the horizontal axis, the resulting combined probability distribution is flat. Such a distribution causes the model to be broadly defined so that the level of certainty in selecting the proper unit of speech is reduced since a given speech signal will produce similar probabilities for a large number of speech units.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00088","num":"00088"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11","FIG. 9"],"b":["11","1100","1102","1104","1106","1108"]},"Because the individual distributions of  are brought closer together, the combined distribution  shown in  is more sharply defined. Having such sharp definition in the probability distribution results in more certainty in the decision making process for selecting a unit of speech given an input speech signal. The sharpness of the definition is shown in distribution  by the fact that the distribution rises quickly near a particular feature vector along the feature vectors of horizontal axis  and provides a higher probability along vertical axis .","In some embodiments where different noise reduction techniques are used for different sets of training data, the noise in the test data is sampled to determine which noise reduction techniques should be applied to the test data.  provides a block diagram of a noise reduction module  for one such embodiment of the present invention.","In noise reduction module , the noise in the input test speech signal is sampled by a noise sampler , by for example using the technique described above in connection with FIG. . The noise sample is provided to a noise comparator , which compares the spectral content of the noise in the test signal to samples of training noise stored in memory . Note that multiple samples of noise may be stored for each set of training data. The number of samples stored is selected by striking a balance between memory usage and the accuracy desired for the noise reduction selection process.","When it finds the best match for the noise in the test speech signal, noise comparator  retrieves the set identifier for the matching signal from memory .","The set identifier is provided to a noise reduction selector , which retrieves the names of the noise reduction techniques that were applied to the identified set of training data. To do this, noise reduction selector  accesses a training set\/noise reduction database , which contains a list of noise reduction techniques that were applied to each set of training data.","After it has identified the appropriate noise reduction techniques for the current sample, noise reduction selector  routes the test data to the noise reduction modules associated with the identified set or cluster. In , this involves routing the test data to one of the noise reduction modules , , or . Note that although noise reduction modules , , and  are shown in parallel in , in other embodiments, the test data is passed through a series of noise reduction modules. The output of the selected noise reduction modules is the \u201cpseudo-clean\u201d test data.","In other embodiments, multiple acoustic models are trained using different sets of training data, different noise reduction techniques or combinations of both. Thus, different sets of pseudo-clean training data are generated and then used to form different respective models, instead of combining the different sets of training data into a single model as was discussed above. Under such embodiments, each noise reduction technique that is used to form the respective pseudo-clean training data is also applied to the test data. This creates a plurality of sets of pseudo-clean test data, with one set for each respective model. Each set of pseudo-clean test data is then applied against its respective model to find a probability for the model\/test data pair.","The decoder then examines all of the probabilities and selects the model\/test data pair that provides the highest probability. This selection can be made based on the probability across the entire speech signal such that one model and one respective set of noise reduction techniques is applied across the entire speech signal or the selection can be made based on a probability for a segment of speech such that different segments use different models and noise reduction techniques. For example, a first phoneme may be decoded using one model\/test data pair while a neighboring phoneme is decoded using a second model\/test data pair. Using such a technique allows the decoder to inherently select the best noise reduction technique and model to apply to each segment of test data.","In still further embodiments, different sets of pseudo-clean training data are formed using different noise reduction techniques but only one model is constructed. The different noise reduction techniques are then applied to the test data to form multiple sets of pseudo-clean test data. Each different set of pseudo-clean test data is applied against the model and the decoder selects the pseudo-clean test data that generates the highest probability. This selection can be made based on a probability across the entire speech signal or it can be made based on a probability for a segment of the speech signal.","Although the present invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00027","num":"00027"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":"11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00028","num":"00028"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
