---
title: Transport network and method
abstract: A transport network includes a flexible topology for internally defining transport elements. The transport elements each include a port group having a plurality of geographically distributed ports from the transport network. Point-to-multipoint connectivity is defined between the ports in a port group. An identifier represents the port group as a single element to internal and/or external elements for protocol exchanges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07133403&OS=07133403&RS=07133403
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 07133403
owner_city: Kawasaki
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20000606
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/202,190, entitled INTERNET PROTOCOL TRANSPORT, filed May 5, 2000 which is hereby incorporated by reference.","The present invention relates generally to the field of telecommunication networks, and more particularly to a transport network and method.","Telecommunication networks transport voice and data according to a variety of standards and using a variety of technologies. Circuit-switch networks such as plain old telephone service (POTS) utilize transmission paths dedicated to specific users for the duration of a call and employ continuous, fixed-bandwidth transmission. Packet-switch networks (PSNs) allow dynamic bandwidth, depending on the application, and can be divided into connectionless networks with no dedicated paths and connection-oriented networks with virtual circuits having dedicated bandwidth along a predetermined path. Because packet-switched networks allow traffic from multiple users to share communication links, these networks utilize available bandwidth more efficiently than circuit-switched networks.","Internet protocol (IP) networks are connectionless packet-switched networks. IP networks transport information by breaking up bitstreams into addressable digital packets. Each IP packet includes source and destination addresses and can take any available route between the source and the destination. The IP packets are transmitted independently and then reassembled in the correct sequence at the destination.","Traditional IP networks employ synchronous optical network (SONET) or other time division multiplex (TDM) links that support only point-to-point connectivity across the network. Consequently, excessive channelization is required on physical ports of the IP network for point-to-multipoint data flows. This leads to greater cost in terms of support and equipment both in the network and in subtending network elements. In addition, the number of peering sessions required for subtending routers is significantly increased.","The present invention provides a transport network and method that substantially eliminate or reduce the problems and disadvantages associated with previous systems and methods. In particular, the transport network provides a flexible topology of ports that are internally configurable into port groups that each act as a single entity and provide point-to-multipoint connectivity between external elements.","In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a transport element defined in the transport network includes a port group having a plurality of geographically distributed ports. Point-to-multipoint connectivity is provided between the ports. An identifier is operable to represent the port group as a single element to disparate elements.","More specifically, in accordance with a particular embodiment of the present invention, the identifier is operable to represent the port group as a single element to an external node outside of the transport network. In this and other embodiments, the transport element is operable to participate with the external node in protocol exchanges. The transport element may be a transport router, transport Ethernet switch, transport Frame Relay switch or other suitable element providing point-to-multipoint connectivity between a plurality of external ports.","In another embodiment, routing information for the transport element is generated at a centralized location and distributed to the ports for traffic routing. The routing information may comprise a routing information base (RIB). In this embodiment, the RIB is distributed to each of the ports, which each generate a forwarding information base (FIB) for the port based on the RIB. To provide a secure data flow in the transport element, the RIB is distributed only to network ports that are part of the port group for the transport element.","In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a node for the transport network includes a first port, a second port, and a processing system. The first and second port each include a receive-transmit pair (RTP) of interfaces. The RTP includes a high-speed demultiplexer operable to process ingress traffic, a high-speed multiplexer operable to process egress traffic, and an external network interface. The processing system is operable to store a first routing model for a first port group including the first port and at least one geographically distributed port. The processing system is also operable to store a second routing model for a second port group including the second port and at least one geographically distributed port. The first port is configurable to process traffic based on the first routing model and the second port is configurable to process traffic based on the second routing model. For security, each port is only allowed access to its own routing model.","In still another aspect of the present invention, a transport element is provisioned by defining at least one port group from a plurality of geographically distributed nodes in the transport network. Point-to-multipoint connectivity is defined between the ports of the port group. The port group is represented as a single entity to an external network for protocol exchanges and traffic processing.","Technical advantages of the present invention include providing an improved transport network. In particular, the transport network provides a flexible topology in which sets of ports may be grouped in any suitable way and treated as a single element. As a result, provisioning of transport elements in the network is unconstrained with mesh and partial-mesh topologies supported. This allows a network owner to freely provision the network to meet customer demands and to optimize efficiency in the network.","Another technical advantage of the present invention includes providing an improved external representation for the transport network. In particular, the transport network is represented as sets of port groups with internally managed connectivity. Port groups are internally defined and each represented as a single entity providing connectivity through the transport network. Accordingly, the external network treats the transport network as a set of distinct elements.","Still another technical advantage of the present invention includes providing an improved transport element for the transport network. In particular, the transport element includes a port group with at least point-to-multipoint connectivity between the ports. For mesh topologies, multipoint-to-multipoint connectivity is provided for external point-to-multipoint connectivity. Accordingly, the transport element is externally represented as a router or switch and channelization required on the physical ports is minimized. This reduces cost in terms of support and equipment in the transport network and in subtending network elements.","Still another technical advantage of the present invention includes providing secure transport elements within the transport network. In particular, the topology of the transport network is isolated from the external network. In addition, the routing models and topologies of a transport element is known only to ports of the transport element, and thus hidden from other transport elements in the network. As a result, the transport elements are isolated from one another to prevent cross contamination and intrusions between the elements and customers. Thus, the value of transport elements is increased for both customers and network owners.","Still another technical advantage of the present invention includes providing an improved architecture for nodes in the transport network. In particular, the transport nodes comprise modular building blocks to support a scalable, pay-as-you-grow, architecture. In addition, functionality of the transport elements is distributed between nodes to allow any processor in the transport network to control the element. The control processor for a transport element generates routing information for the element and distributes it to the ports of the element for traffic processing.","Still another technical advantage of the present invention includes providing a transport network and transport elements with high bandwidth efficiency. In particular, optical links are provided between ports of the transport elements in the network. Internet protocol (IP) and other packets are transported directly on the optical links using only a limited or thin transmission protocol. Accordingly, bandwidth use is maximized in the transport network and the cost of the network is minimized.","Still another technical advantage of the present invention includes providing an improved transport router, transport Ethernet switch, and transport Frame Relay switch with geographically distributed ports. The transport router includes a port group providing point-to-multipoint connectivity between a set of subtending IP routers. The transport Ethernet switch includes a port group providing point-to-multipoint connectivity between a set of subtending Ethernet switches. The transport Frame Relay switch includes a port group providing point-to-multipoint connectivity between a set of subtending Frame Relay switches. In addition, port groups may transparently interconnect any other suitable external ports, in which case the port group may be user protocol independent.","Other technical advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures, description, and claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","10"]},"The transport network  is a private network connecting geographically distributed segments of an external network . The external network  includes one or more public and\/or private networks such as the Internet, an intranet, and other suitable local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), and nodes. The external network  includes label switch and subtending routers , Ethernet switches , Frame Relay switches  and other suitable routers, switches, and nodes operable to generate and\/or transport traffic. The transport network  communicates with nodes of the external network  in the native protocol of the nodes to communicate traffic and control signaling between the networks  and .","Referring to , the transport network  includes a plurality of Internet protocol transport (IPT) nodes  interconnected by communication links . The IPT nodes  each include a plurality of ports  accessible to the external network . As used herein, each means every one of at least a subset of the identified items. The communication links  are optical fiber or other suitable high-speed links. The high-speed links are operable to transport traffic at a rate of 5 Gb\/s or greater. Preferably, the high-speed links  transport traffic at rates of 10 Gb\/s or above.","As described in more detail below, the high-speed links  connect high speed interfaces of the IPT nodes  to form fast transport segments (FTS) through the transport network . Packets transferred via the FTSs incur very small buffering delay in the network as described in co-owned U.S. patent application entitled \u201cMethod and System for Transporting Traffic in a Packet-Switched Network\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000. Packets carried through the ports  and between FTSs may incur queuing delay comparable to a normal IP switch.","To optimize bandwidth usage within the transport network , packets may be transmitted directly on the high-speed optical links  without synchronous optical network (SONET) framing and its associated overhead which imposes a penalty of three to five percent depending on the line rate. In one embodiment, a transport label is added to each packet to generate an internal packet that can be directly transmitted on the optical links . Details of the transport label are described in co-owned U.S. patent application entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Connectionless\/Connection Oriented Signal Transport\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000. Using the transport label, both connection-oriented and connectionless traffic may be seamlessly transported across the transport network . Protection for connection oriented data flows may be provided as described in co-owned U.S. patent application entitled \u201cMethod and System For Providing A Protection Path For Connection-Oriented Signals In A Telecommunications Network\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000. Protection for connectionless, packet transport, traffic flows may be provided as described in co-owned U.S. Patent Application \u201cMethod and System For Providing A Protection Path For Connectionless Signals In A Telecommunications Network\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000.","To support voice, video, and other real-time or time-sensitive applications, the transport network  may provide class of service (CoS) capabilities. In one embodiment, all IP packets are mapped to one of three priority levels as they enter the transport network . In this embodiment, guaranteed traffic has reserved bandwidth and is guaranteed to be transported within a defined time delay. Control flow traffic is also reserved and guaranteed, but the network  does not guarantee delivery time delay. Best effort traffic does not have reserved bandwidth and delivery is not guaranteed by the network . By distinguishing and prioritizing traffic based on its type, including CoS, service level agreement (SLA) and\/or other suitable indication of importance or delivery constraints. The transport network  is able to deliver time-sensitive traffic within tight time constraints by delaying and\/or dropping best effort traffic and other low priority traffic.","In one embodiment, the transport network  utilizes a private internal addressing scheme to isolate the network  from customers and thus minimize or prevent conflicts with private and\/or public networks connected to the transport network . This reduces the complexity of network management and preserves the topology of the existing routed network . In addition, transport network isolation enables value added services to be provided through the transport network .","When an independent addressing scheme is utilized for the transport network , egress traffic is converted from the external addressing scheme to the internal addressing scheme at ports  using standardized or extended network address translation (NAT). Similarly, egress traffic is converted from the internal addressing scheme back to the external addressing scheme at ports  using standard or extended NAT. In addition to the internal addresses, each IPT node , port  and other component of the transport network  visible to the external network  includes a globally unique IP address. These addresses are used for external management of the transport network .","The transport network  provides a flexible topology in which sets of ports  may be grouped in any suitable way and each treated as a single entity capable of independently interacting with external nodes. Thus, the transport network  is externally represented as sets of port groups  with internally managed connectivity. Provisioning of port groups  in the transport network  is unconstrained with mesh and partial-mesh topologies supported.","The port groups  are each a set of ports  with similar routing properties. In particular, a port group  is a set of ports  configured to provide multipoint-to-multipoint or at least point-to-multipoint connectivity between one another which allows point-to-multipoint connectivity between external elements. Accordingly, traffic received by a port group  can be routed directly from an ingress port  to a plurality of egress ports  without channelization in the transport network .","Port groups  may be provisioned as simple port groups or as composite port groups. In the simple port group configuration, each port  only belongs to a single port group . Private addresses can be supported inside the simple port group configuration. A composite port group includes ports  which have membership in multiple port groups . In the composite port group case, private IP addressing is not supported.","The port groups  each define a transport element  with geographically distributed ports . Each transport element  is assigned a unique global IP address for peering and protocol exchanges within and\/or external to the transport network . As described in more detail below, the transport elements  may implement a distributed architecture in which local processors control each of the ports  and a centralized processor controls the network element .","In particular embodiments, the transport elements may be transport routers  interconnecting sets of subtending IP routers , transport Ethernet switches  interconnecting sets of subtending Ethernet switches , and transport Frame Relay switches  interconnecting sets of subtending Frame Relay switches . In addition, the transport element  may interconnect two ports transparently, in which case the port group  is user protocol independent.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["60","60"]},"Referring to , the transport router  includes geographically distributed ports  connected to external routers . The external ports  form a port group  with point-to-multipoint connectivity between the ports  as externally represented by the router . Accordingly, traffic from any one of the external routers  may be routed from an ingress port  directly to any number of the other external routers  by router .","The transport router  includes a router identifier to peer with the external routers  and participate in reservation and other protocol exchanges. In a particular embodiment, the transport router  peers with subtending routers  by using interior gateway protocols (IGP) such as OSPF, IS\u2014IS, or RIP. The transport router  may peer using an exterior gateway protocol (EGP) or any other suitable protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["30","30","10"]},"Referring to , the IPT node  includes one or more receiver-transceiver pairs (RTP)  and a processing system  interconnected by an internal Ethernet connection. As described in more detail below, each RTP  includes one or more internal interfaces  and one or more external interfaces . The internal interfaces are high-speed interfaces between the IPT nodes  while the external interfaces  are low-speed ports  accessible to external nodes. The internal and local interfaces  and  may each be implemented as one or more discrete cards.","Within the transport network , a set of internal interfaces  of the IPT nodes  are connected together between ports  of a port group  to form an FTS between the ports  and provide multipoint-to-multipoint and\/or point-to-multipoint connectivity. In particular, a multiplexer of an internal interface  is connected to a demultiplexer of a next internal interface  in the FTS while a demultiplexer of the internal interface  is connected to a multiplexer of a previous internal interface  in the FTS. The FTSs are directionally-sensitive to preferentially route pass-through traffic over local ingress traffic. In this way, traffic for a transport element  is transported between an ingress and egress port on an FTS with minimal delay across the transport network .","The processing system  includes one or more central processing units (CPUs) . The CPUs  may each operate the IPT node  or a transport element . A CPU  operating the IPT node  includes an operating system and control functionality for the IPT node . A CPU  operating a transport element  includes control functionality for the distributed components of the transport element .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["100","104","106"]},"Referring to , the internal interface  includes an optical receiver , a demultiplexer , a multiplexer , and an optical transmitter . The optical receiver is a 10 Gb\/s receiver without SONET or package level knowledge. The optical receiver  performs the optical to electrical signal conversion. The optical receiver  may include an amplifier and may directly interface with a wave division multiplex (WDM) system.","The demultiplexer  drops local traffic and inter RTP traffic as well as buffers transit traffic. In a particular embodiment, the demultiplexer  has a set of 155 Mb\/s connections to interface cards of the external interface . The demultiplexer  may also have 155 Mb\/s connections to interface cards of other RTPs .","The multiplexer  collects local traffic from the interface cards of the external interface  and through traffic from the demultiplexer . The multiplexer  includes packet buffer, scheduler and insertion control functionality.","The optical transmitter  is a 10 Gb\/s transmitter without SONET or package level knowledge. The optical transmitter  may include an optical amplifier. The optical transmitter  performs a conversion from an electrical signal to an optical signal and may interface directly with a WDM system.","The external interface  include a plurality of low-speed interface cards . The low-speed interface cards  send and receive traffic to and from the multiplexer  and demultiplexer , respectively. The low-speed interface cards  also provide connections between the FTSs.","The low-speed interface cards  are the main buffering point for ingress and egress traffic of the transport network . Packet level intelligence, including routing and protection mechanisms, are provided by the low-speed interface cards . If the transport network  uses an isolated addressing scheme, the low-speed interface cards  perform NAT functionality.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["102","10","102","52","34","52"]},"Referring to , the processing system  includes four CPUs  each configurable to operate the IPT node  or a transport element . The first CPU  manages the IPT node  and includes a simple network management protocol (SNMP) agent\/internal network layer one (IPTL1) management information base (MIB)  for the IPT node . A common management information base (CMIB)  includes a model  of the transport network  and slave models  for transport elements having local ports. A database manager  manages the CMIB . An internal transport network layer one (IPTL1) architecture  includes an internal open shortest path first (IOSPF) instance  for discovery of the transport network . The IPTL1 architecture also includes control component subsystems .","The second CPU  is a master controller for a first transport element  of the transport network . The second CPU  includes an SNMP agent\/external network MIB  for the first transport element . A CMIB  includes a master model  of the layer two (IPTL2) architecture for the first transport element . A database manager  manages the CMIB . The IPTL2 architecture  includes an OSPF instance  for discovery of the network connected to the first transport element . The IPTL2 architecture also includes control component subsystems .","The third CPU  is a master controller for a second transport element  of the transport network . The third CPU  includes an SNMP agent\/external network MIB  for a second transport element . A CMIB  includes the master model  of the IPTL2 architecture for the second transport element . A database manager  manages the CMIB . The IPTL2 architecture  includes an OSPF instance  for discovery of the network connected to the second transport element . The IPTL2 architecture also includes control component subsystems .","The OSPF instances for each transport element discovers the topology for the element and generates the master model. The model is then distributed to the port controllers as slave models for point-to-multipoint connectivity within the port group of the transport element. The fourth CPU  is unassigned to a particular transport element  and may be idle or used to control lower layer functions.","In operation, layer one (IPTL1) learns the internal topology and does not exchange this information outside the transport network . The internal paths are learned using IPTL1 in order to route traffic between any two points within the network  regardless of the contents of the package. The traffic may be locally or externally generated. All IPT nodes  participate in IPTL1. Layer two (IPTL2) deals with the external topology for a transport router.","Each IPT node  is assigned a unique internal OSPF (IOSPF) router identifier. The transport network  runs IOSPF between the IPT nodes  to provide normal and protection paths between ingress points of the network. As a result, the transport network is modeled as a collection of routers interconnected by point-to-point links.","As described in more detail below, path label calculation (PLC) interacts with the IOSPF in order to learn the transport network  topology. Based on the learned topology, PLC determines the normal and protection paths. PLC also addresses overlapping paths. After PLC has learned the transport network topology, PLC signals IPTL2 to start running. When IPTL2 converges, OSPF is updated in the forwarding table for the corresponding transport element . PLC then populates the look-up table for the ports  of the transport element .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["60","200","202","204","206"]},"The first IPT node  includes a first and second port for a first transport router, a first port for a second transport router, and a fourth and fifth port for a third transport router. The first CPU  includes control functionality for the first IPT node  as well as slave models of the first, second, and third transport routers for controlling the local ports. The second CPU  is a master controller for the first transport router.","The second IPT node  includes a third port of the third transport router and a third and fourth port of the second transport router. The first CPU  includes control functionality for the second IPT node  and slave models of the second and third transport routers for controlling the local ports. The second CPU  is a primary controller for the third transport router.","The third IPT node  includes the fourth port of the first transport router, a second port of the second transport router, and a first and second port of the third transport router. The first CPU  comprises control functionality for the third IPT node  and slave models of the first, second, and third transport routers for managing the local ports. The second CPU  includes a master controller for the second transport router.","The fourth IPT node  includes a third port of the first transport router and a fifth port of the second transport router. The first CPU  includes control functionality for the fourth IPT node  and slave models of the second transport routers for controlling the local ports. In this way, each IPT node and ports of the IPT node are locally managed. The distributed transport elements are managed by a centralized controller on any one of the IPT nodes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["250","260","10","10"]},"Referring to , the functionality of the PLC  is based on whether the processor is managing an instance of IOSPF. An IPT node  will have only one instance of IOSPF, but each processor will have an instance of PLC . The PLC  instance associated with IOSPF builds a local configuration database (LDB) from IPTL1 and IPTL2 provision values, creates the OLSA entry from the configuration of IPTL1, tunnels the OLSA entry to IOSPF, retrieves the OLSA database from IOSPF upon IOSPF's notification of convergence, synchronizes the OLSA database with its PLC peers within an IPT node, signals IPTL2 to start by adding the transport router's port IP address, the multicast host, and transport router's IP address to the port prefix table and adding the CPU's label to the transport table of the port. The PLC  also receives the IPTL2 forwarding table (IP forwarding table), populates the prefixes, the transport labels and the destinations mapping tables for the ports of the IPTL2.","The PLC  receives fault signal from a fault manager which indicate the link failure identifier. In response to a link failure, the PLC  determines which label is effected by the link failure and marks the label as invalid in the transport label's table per port. If the link identifier is local, the OLSA conveys the failure and hands failure processing over to IOSPF.","The PLC  also translates an internal reservation protocol (RSVP) request on a normal path. The internal RSVP specifies the ingress and egress ports. The normal path includes a control path and a data path. A control path is a list of IPT nodes  to be traversed from a source to a destination. The data path is a list of high speed and slow speed links to be traversed between the source and the destination. If the internal RSVP succeeds in making a reservation on the normal path, it indicates to the PLC  the new QoS of the path. The PLC  updates the QoS of the normal transport label for the port . The same process occurs for the protection path. If the port  is not local to the PLC , the PLC  tunnels the information to the PLC  where the port resides to do the update. Further information regarding the internal reservation process is described in co-owned U.S. patent application entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Opaque Application Object Transport\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000.","The PLC  further supports a proprietary MIB for port lookup table and receives requests from MPLS. The requests include an IP destination prefix and an ingress port. The PLC  returns the pointers of the normal and protection transport labels and a next-hop IP address of the subtending router . The PLC  supports a device driver API to update the forwarding table in the port and supports a label translator to reach any point in the transport network .","The PLC  instance not associated with IOSPF builds a local configuration database (LDB) from IPTL1 and IPTL2 provisioned values, synchronizes the OLSA database with its IOSPF's PLC peers within an IPT node, signals IPTL2 to start by adding the transport router's port IP address, the multicast host, and transport router IP address to the port prefix table and adding the CPU's label to the transport table of the port, populates the prefixes, the transport labels, and the destinations mapping tables for the ports of the IPTL2.","The PLC  also receives fault signal from a fault manager which will indicate the link failure identifier. In this case the PLC  determines which label has been effected by the link failure and marks the label as invalid in the transport label's table per port.","The PLC  further translates an external IP address to IPTL2 to an egress port for external RSVP, receives signals from a PLC  associated with IOSPF to update the local port and receives an internal RSVP request on a normal path. As previously described, the internal RSVP will specify the ingress and egress ports. The normal path includes a control path and a data path. The control path is a list of IPT nodes  to be traversed from a source to a destination. The data path is a list of high speed links and low speed links to be traversed between the source and the destination. If the internal RSVP has succeeded in making reservation on the normal path, it indicates to the PLC  the new quality of service (QoS) of the path. The PLC  updates the QoS of the normal transport label for the port. The same process occurs for protection path. The PLC  also supports a device driver API to update forwarding table in ports and supports a label translator to reach any point in an transport network . To perform the necessary functions, IOSPF will include an API to permit the PLC  to pass the OLSA to the IOSPF, signal the PLC to retrieve OLSA database, modify OSPF link state database's structure to store and flood OLSA.","Referring to , the IPTL2 architecture  comprises the topology for the transport router . The transport router manages the ports  in its ports group . The subtending routers  view the transport router  as a single router. The transport router  reacts to both external and internal changes in topology, which triggers updates between the subtending routers  and the transport router . Changes inside the transport network  that do not impact the states of the port  are not reported to the subtending routers .","As previously described, a master transport router instance resides in a single processor  within the transport network . Slave processors  resides on each transport node  including a port  for the transport router . Each processor  and  associated with the transport router  has a port group communication module .","A TCP connection is established between the transport routers instance and the ports instances. This connection is used to traffic control data between the transport router  and the subtending routers . The communication instance for the transport router  monitors the states of the transport routers ports  via the TCP connection with the ports instance, downloads a forwarding table upon notification from the routers OSPF, requests from the PLC  to translate a port  to a transport label, interacts with CMP  to send and receive packets, and tunnels the management's control packets to the transport routers ports . The ports communication instance establishes TCP connections with the transport router , tunnels all control packets to the transport router , request from the PLC  to translate a port  to a transport label, receives a forwarding table from the transport router  and downloads a forwarding table to the PLC .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["52","10","350","30","10","352","52","10"]},"Proceeding to step , the internal topology of the transport network is discovered. At step , transport elements  are defined within the transport network . The transport elements  each comprise a port group  and may be a transport router, transport Ethernet switch, or transport Frame Relay switch. At step , topology of the transport elements  and connected external nodes are discovered.","Next, at step , the transport elements  each peer with the subtending routers  or other external nodes. At step , the transport elements  generate routing tables for receiving and transmitting packets to and from the external network and within the transport network . In this way, the transport elements  are freely defined within the transport network  to match the topology of the network  to needs of customers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["52","10","400","52","10","52","34","402","34","52"]},"Proceeding to step , a local processor is assigned or otherwise provided for each port  of the transport element . In one embodiment, the local processor by default is a master processor for each corresponding IPT node . At step , an identifier is assigned to the transport element  to allow the transport element  to participate in protocol exchanges and otherwise appear as a single element to external nodes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["52","450","52"]},"At step , the RIB is distributed to each port  of the transport element . At step , a forwarding information base (FIB) is generated at each port  based on the RIB. The ports  use the RIB to process traffic received from the transport network  or the external network . Step  leads to the end of the process by which routing information is centrally generated and distributed for the transport element .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["52","500","34","52","502","52"]},"Proceeding to step , the transport label is added to the IP packet to generate an internal packet. At step , the internal packet is transported to an egress port  of the transport element  on high-speed links based on the transport label.","Next, at step , the transport label is removed from the IP packet at the egress port . At step , the IP packet is transmitted to an external destination element. Step  leads to the end of the process by which IP packets are transmitted across the transport network  on high speed links using transport labels overhead.","Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments, various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present invention encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present invention and its advantages, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 12"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
