---
title: Generating and providing alert messages in a communications network
abstract: A notification system is coupled to a plurality of message services including a voice mail server, an email server and an information server in an office. Messages left for a user (e.g. voice mail, email, CRM event, etc.) are deposited in folders maintained by the messaging services. The notification system detects additions to the user's folders and when a new message arrives, the notification system sends an alert to a Wireless Access Protocol (WAP) enabled device (e.g. cell phone) configured for the user. The alert includes the total number of messages of each type received for the user, along with an indication of the most recently received message. The notification system may further monitor an information source for new information that may be of interest to the user (e.g. stock or product price quotes), and provide these in the alert notification if certain conditions are met (e.g. stock price exceeds a threshold).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06871214&OS=06871214&RS=06871214
owner: Nortel Networks Limited
number: 06871214
owner_city: 
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20001229
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application is based on, and claims priority from, U.S. Application No. 60\/244,987, filed Oct. 30, 2000 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING UNIFIED WAP ALERTS, commonly owned by the present assignee, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The present application is related to U.S. applications Ser. No. 09\/753,340, now abandoned, entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING UNIFIED COMMUNICATION MANAGEMENT BASED ON PRESENCE INFORMATION, Ser. No. 09\/753,333, currently pending entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MANAGING COMMUNICATIONS BASED ON CALLER IDENTIFICATION AND CATEGORIZATION, Ser. No. 09\/753,334, now abandoned entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING ENTERPRISE MESSAGE NOTIFICATION TO A REMOTE DEVICE WITH RESPONSE ENABLEMENT Ser. No. 09\/753,025, currently pending entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING SELECTIVE ACCESS TO ENTERPRISE MESSAGES FROM A REMOTE DEVICE and Ser. No. 09\/753,345, currently pending entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING REMOTE ACCESS TO PREVIOUSLY TRANSMITTED ENTERPRISE MESSAGES, all filed Dec. 29, 2000 and commonly owned by the assignee of the present invention, the contents of each being fully incorporated herein by reference.","This invention relates generally to personal communications and messaging, and more particularly, to a system and method for providing a unified indication of various types of new message and communication events to a user via a WAP-enabled device associated with the user.","Private Branch Exchanges (PBXs) and voice mail systems are ubiquitous in offices around the world. Their capabilities for providing message indicators are, however, rigidly fixed and quite limited. For example, a typical PBX system may provide some indicator, such as a flashing message on an LCD panel on the user's phone, that a new voice mail has been left in the user's mailbox. However, the user must be present in the office to see this indicator. Similarly, voice mail systems may provide an indication of how many unheard voice mails are in the user's mailbox. However, the user must call the voice mail system to get this indication.","As workers become more mobile, and as the number and types of messaging and communication options expand (e.g. email, voice mail, faxes, pagers, cell phones, wireless personal data assistants (PDA's ) (e.g. RIM Blackberry, Palm Pilot, etc.), such conventional message indicators are becoming increasingly unsatisfactory.","The present invention relates to a method and system for unified and personalized call and message notification.","In one example of the invention, a notification system is coupled to a plurality of message services including a voice mail server, an email server and an information server in an office. Messages left for a user (e.g. voice mail, email, CRM event, etc.) are deposited in folders maintained by the messaging services. The notification system detects additions to the user's folders and when a new message arrives, the notification system sends an alert to a Wireless Access Protocol (WAP) enabled device (e.g. cell phone) configured for the user. The alert includes the total number of messages of each type received for the user, along with an indication of the most recently received message. The notification system may further monitor an information source for new information that may be of interest to the user (e.g. stock or product price quotes), and provide these in the alert notification if certain conditions are met (e.g. stock price exceeds a threshold).","In accordance with an aspect of the invention, a method for managing message events associated with a plurality of message feeds provided to a user in a communication system includes collecting information regarding message events associated with each of the message feeds, updating a list of messages for the user based on the collected information, preparing an alert based on the updated list of messages, and pushing the alert to a wireless device associated with the user.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, an apparatus for providing notifications about messages in a communication system including a first messaging server adapted to store messages from a first message feed for a plurality of users and a second messaging server adapted to store messages from a second message feed for the plurality of users, the first message feed and the second message feed being associated with different types of messages includes a notification server adapted to be coupled to both of the first and second messaging servers, the notification server collecting information about the messages stored for certain of the plurality of users, the notification server being adapted to push alerts based on the collected information to wireless devices associated with the certain users.","The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings, which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably, the implementation of certain elements of the present invention may be accomplished using software, hardware or any combination thereof, as would be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art, and the figures and examples below are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention. Moreover, where certain elements of the present invention can be partially or fully implemented using known components, only those portions of such known components that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention will be described, and detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. Further, the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the known components referred to herein by way of illustration.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"As can be seen, an office  (i.e. an enterprise) includes a PBX  that connects a plurality of office phones  and a voice mail\/fax mail (VM\/FM) service . The PBX  can be, for example, a Meridian 1\u2122 PBX switch from Nortel Networks. The VM\/FM service  can be, for example, a CallPilot\u2122 messaging system from Nortel Networks. In one example, VM\/FM service  maintains voice and\/or fax mailboxes in folders  for each of the phones , which mailboxes may be identified with the same phone numbers associated with phones  (e.g. a 4 or 5 digit extension), and includes an Interactive Voice Response system (IVR) for interacting with, and thereby allowing callers to record and play messages to and from the mailboxes. VM\/FM service  is coupled to PBX  for receiving and handling phone calls from within and outside the office  via its IVR.","Office  further includes a local area network (LAN)  (such as an Ethernet LAN) that connects a plurality of office PCs  with an email server  (such as a Microsoft Exchange Server) and an information server  (e.g. a Clarify server that is adapted to maintain customer relation management (CRM) information folders  in accordance with rules configured by associated users). PCs  can include email client functionality such as Microsoft Outlook for receiving, storing and manipulating information in email folders  and information folders  via LAN . The notification system  is coupled to the LAN , as is VM\/FM service .","The office  is coupled to the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) via the PBX  and to the Internet via a firewall\/router  (both connections may be accomplished using a common collection of lines, for example, as should be apparent to those skilled in the art). The office  is connected to a plurality of PSTN phones  via the PSTN and a plurality of Internet appliances  (e.g. a PC, laptop, handheld or other wired device having browser functionality for communicating with remote devices using conventional protocols such as HTTP) via the Internet. The office  is also connected via the Internet for providing text messages to a plurality of wireless devices  (e.g. one-way and two-way pagers, WAP and\/or SMS-enabled cell phones and PDAs, etc.) via their wireless operators  (using protocols such as HTTP and SMTP, etc.). Preferably, the firewall\/router  includes security extensions for providing secure access between the notification system  and wireless operators  via the Internet.","Generally, the present invention allows a user having a variety of communication, information and messaging feeds within the office environment (e.g. voice mail, email, fax, text messages, CRM events, etc.) to receive unified alerts notifying the user of newly received messages via these feeds on their WAP-enabled device such as a cell phone. The notification system  keeps track of new messages the user has received (perhaps filtered by user preferences about which types of messages to be notified about), and when a new message arrives, an updated total is sent to the user's WAP-enabled device using a notation such as \u201ce-M (3e, 2v* , 1f, 2t, 3c, 1m) [John Smith].\u201d This notation indicates that the user has received 3 emails, 2 voice mails, 1 fax, 2 text messages, 3 CRM events and 1 missed telephone call. The asterisk next to the voice mail total indicates that the voice mail is the most recent feed, and the sender of the new voice mail is John Smith.","It should be noted that not all of the \u201coffice\u201d components shown in  need be included in the invention, nor need they be located at the same physical site. For example, the components may be located in different buildings. Other configurations may include shared or \u201cvirtual\u201d PBX functionality that is available to different customers, who may or may not be located in the same office space, or no PBX functionality at all.","It should be further noted that certain types of message feeds may be omitted or added, and that the invention is not limited to the illustrated selection of voice mail, fax mail, email, and information message feeds. For example, the invention may include notification of text message feeds, such as the short text messages described in U.S. appln. Ser. No. 09\/753,340, now abandoned.","Moreover, although the above describes an example implementation in which a common server and set of folders is provided for both voice mails and fax mails, the invention is not so limited and such types of message feeds may be maintained separately and\/or alternatively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"As shown in , a notification system  includes a notification server , a user information store , a message information store , a messaging interface , a WAP Push interface , and an information server interface .","In one example of the invention, the components of the notification system illustrated in  are commonly provided in a Windows NT server (e.g. a Compaq ProLiant series server computer running Windows NT 4.0), with certain of the components provided as add-in cards and certain other of the components provided as software modules, or combinations thereof. It should be noted that, although shown separately for clarity of the invention, the user information store and the message information store can be commonly provided in a relational database such as a Sybase SQL database. It should be further noted that other types of server platforms are possible.","As indicated in , there can be additional interfaces from which message feeds are received and the invention is not limited to the example interfaces provided in FIG. . It should be further noted that the system can include administrator interface functionality and administrative information storage for providing underlying configurations that are used by the notification system, which configurations may or may not include information stored in user information store  (e.g. user names, associated desk phone numbers, associated mailbox numbers, desktop PC addresses, etc.) and wireless operator information (e.g. URLs to HTTP servers or e-mail servers associated with the operators, calling line ID (CLID) unblocking information, etc.).","Generally, the notification server  subscribes to and listens for published message events from VMIFM service , email server  and information server  via messaging interface  and information interface  to learn about new messages, CRM events and\/or missed phone calls directed to users of the notification system (as listed in user information store ). The notification server  uses these message events to update message information in message information store , and to cause the WAP Push interface  to send an updated notification alert to the user's WAP-enabled wireless device. As will be discussed in more detail below, an alert to the user is triggered by a pre-configured configured setting such as a change in the total number of messages in store , or an alert can be triggered under user configurable circumstances (e.g. a predetermined period of time) and\/or a change in the status of a wireless device associated with the user.","User information in store  can include the user's office phone and\/or mailbox number (e.g. a four or five digit extension), the types of message feeds the user receives in the office (e.g. voice mail, fax, email, information, etc.), the paths to where those messages are stored in the office (e.g. the paths to VM\/FM folders  maintained by VM\/FM service , the paths to email folders  maintained by server , and the paths to information folders  maintained by server ), the phone numbers\/addresses of the user's WAP-enabled wireless devices and information concerning the wireless operators for any of the wireless devices. It should be noted that the user may configure more than one device for receiving alerts, in which case the notification server  should include user interface functionality (e.g. an HTTP server for communicating with a user's browser via the LAN  or the Internet) for dynamically configuring or changing configurations of devices, and for allowing the user to select between the different devices, as well as the user's current indication of whether to receive alerts via any of the devices. It should be further noted that wireless protocols and associated wireless devices other than those that support the WAP Push protocol may be used in accordance with the invention. Generally, equivalent protocols supporting standard formats and push-type technology are preferred.","The information in store  can further include an indication of the user's status and\/or whether or not the user is presently interested in receiving message notifications. Moreover, the information in store  can include filters for determining what types of messages the user is interested in receiving alerts about. These filters can be based on the type of message (e.g. notify about emails and voice mails, but don't notify about faxes), and\/or the identity of the sender of the message, and\/or the contents of the message (e.g. keywords in the subject line, or a priority flag in the message). In this event, the notification server  can also include user interface functionality (e.g. an HTTP server for communicating with a user's browser via the LAN  or the Internet, programmed buttons on a desk phone for signaling to a client application in the LAN , etc.) for allowing the user to configure and\/or change their message notification filters, preferences and\/or notification status. Additionally or alternatively, the change in preferences and\/or notification status can be performed in conjunction with a change in presence context, such as that described in U.S. appln. Ser. No. 09\/753,340, now abandoned.","Message information in store  can include a list of all missed messages and\/or phone calls for each user. Notification server  continually updates this information in response to events forwarded from messaging interface  and information interface , as will be described in more detail below.","Messaging interface  communicates with VM\/FM service  and email server  via the LAN  and an interface such as Microsoft's Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI)\/Collaboration Data Objects (CDO) interface and\/or non-proprietary interfaces such as the Internet Messaging Access Protocol (IMAP). The messaging interface  uses the folder names received from the notification server  (and user information store ) to subscribe to and\/or listen for changes in the contents of the corresponding folders which indicate that a message has been deposited, read and\/or deleted in the folders by VM\/FM service , email server  and\/or information server . Accordingly, when a user receives or deletes voice mails, faxes, and emails, the messaging interface  learns about them and forwards the information to notification server . Further, if the messages include fields for the sender, this information can be provided to the notification server  as well.","If a new message is received, notification server  can use the received information and message from interface  to compare against filters established by the user to determine whether a new alert should be sent. If an old message is deleted or read, notification server  can use the received information from interface  to compare against the list of messages in message information store  to determine whether an updated total is required. For example, if the deleted or read message is one that the user was not notified about previously, then an updated total is not required. If an updated total is required, then the list of messages for the user in message information store  is updated. For example, if a message is one that the user was notified about (e.g. a priority email), and if the user has read the message (e.g. from a desktop or remote email client application), then the message should be removed from the user's list in information store . Generally, however, a new alert is not sent to the user upon a decrease in the total number of messages received (and perhaps unread) for the user. Rather, if at all, this information is provided in a \u201cbackground\u201d alert that will be explained in more detail below.","In one example of the invention, the VM\/FM service  is configured with functionality for further generating message events associated with incoming calls which are not successfully completed (e.g. calls that are directed to be answered by the voice mail system, but the caller hangs up before leaving a message). Accordingly, notification server  can learn about this missed call information from VM\/FM service  via messaging interface . If the PBX  further includes caller ID functionality, the phone number of the missed incoming caller can also be provided by messaging interface  to the notification server . It should be noted that there are many alternatives to the example of VM\/FM service  providing missed call information, and so the invention is not limited by the foregoing illustrations. For example, missed call information can be additionally or alternatively provided by a client application residing in PBX  or similar call control facility.","Information interface  checks information in a targeted database for new items of interest to the user in accordance with filters and rules established in store . For example, the user may wish to receive an alert when a stock price reaches a certain level, or when a new company product price quote is set, or when a traffic advisory is sent. Accordingly, information interface  contains all necessary functionality for searching a database having a path supplied to it by notification server  and to compare retrieved information with rules provided in store  for the requesting user. For example, the targeted information path may be a URL or a CGI script to a website that the user has configured in user information store  (e.g. a financial website that provides stock quotes or sports scores). Information interface  can then include HTTP client functionality for posting the URL or CGI script to the website and receiving the response (e.g. a recent stock quote for a particular company or sports score for a particular sports team). Information interface  can then search the response pages returned by the website and compare the received response against the rules provided in store  (e.g. a stock price exceeds or falls below given thresholds, or a non-zero sports score for a sports team). It should be noted that the targeted information sources and associated rules (e.g. certain pre-set financial or sports websites or CRM databases) may be pre-configured by the system so that information interface  can be pre-programmed to know how to find the requested information. Such pre-configuration can be built into user interface functionality that is provided for allowing users to specify desired information alerts and to save such selections in user information store  and\/or rules\/filters store .","It should be apparent that there are many alternatives and examples of information targets that may be searched. For example, the information interface  can be configured to intercept alerts or events sent to a user via LAN  by external systems, which alerts or events may or may not need to be filtered. Such alerts or events can include instant messages delivered to the user's desktop system in LAN  by such applications as AIM or ICQ, for example, or from automated services that have been subscribed to by the user such as stock quote services, sports score services, news services, etc.","The information in store  can include the target information source that should be examined (e.g. stock quote website, company product list database, etc.), and the rules for determining when a message should be sent to the user (e.g. stock price or product identifier). It should be apparent that the information interface  can include user interface functionality (e.g. an HTTP server for communicating with a user's browser via the LAN  or the Internet) for allowing the user to configure the rules in store , or this functionality can be included in other modules outside or within the notification system, including notification server .","It should be noted that certain types of information feeds may be handled either by messaging interface  or information interface , depending, for example, on whether the type of information feed is a \u201craw\u201d feed or a \u201ctargeted\u201d feed. For example, in an implementation where information server  itself is configured with \u201cfront-end\u201d rules for filtering information for users before depositing the information in folders , the feed may be considered a \u201ctargeted\u201d feed that does not require any additional filtering beyond the alert \u201cdelivery\u201d filters described above. Moreover, if such a server maintains substantially the same folder structure and interface as an email server , the functionality for learning about such information events can be included in messaging interface . Similarly, where information interface  acts to intercept \u201craw\u201d information events and then to apply \u201cinterest\u201d filters (e.g. stock tickers or sports scores as described in the examples above), then information interface  and filters\/rules  provide \u201cfront-end\u201d filtering functionality for generating information message events for only a filtered subset of the \u201craw\u201d information events, which \u201craw\u201d events can be further filtered by alert \u201cdelivery\u201d preferences specified by the user as described above.","WAP Push interface  causes the message alert to the user's wireless device via an Internet gateway for the wireless operator associated with the specified wireless device (e.g. the user's WAP-enabled cell phone). In one example of the invention, the WAP Push interface  uses the WAP Push protocol, in which the messages are posted as XML\/WML\/HDML documents using an HTTP protocol in accordance with a document type definition (DTD). As should be apparent, in order to access these devices for messaging, the system needs to be configured to recognize and communicate with the associated wireless operator for transferring text messages. For example, the system may be configured with the Internet address of the operator through which text messages are received using an HTTP protocol. Users can be permitted to receive messages only with devices that are associated with these pre-configured operators. It should be further apparent that the wireless device may need to be preconfigured with functionality for understanding the Push feed and for displaying it on the device.","It should be noted that WAP Push interface  preferably includes functionality for sending both \u201cbackground\u201d and \u201cforeground\u201d types of WAP Push feeds to the wireless device, which different types of feeds are well understood by those skilled in the art. For example, many types of wireless devices are configured to handle \u201cbackground\u201d and \u201cforeground\u201d types of WAP Push feeds differently, with \u201cforeground\u201d types of feeds typically having a higher probability of interrupting and receiving the attention of the wireless device user. In accordance with an aspect of the invention, notification server  and WAP Push interface  include functionality for sending certain types of alerts via \u201cforeground\u201d feeds and other types of alerts via \u201cbackground\u201d feeds. For example, notifications of newly received messages may be sent via \u201cforeground\u201d feeds, while notifications that messages have been read or deleted may be sent via \u201cbackground\u201d feeds. The delivery of the different feeds can be also set differently, for example with \u201cforeground\u201d feeds sent immediately and \u201cbackground\u201d feeds sent at specified intervals of time. It should be apparent that this selection of types of frequency of feeds may be pre-configured or may be changed via user preference, for example.","As set forth above, it should be further noted that wireless protocols and associated wireless devices other than those that support the WAP Push protocol may be used in accordance with the invention. Generally, equivalent protocols supporting standard formats and push-type technology are preferred.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00042","num":"00042"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"As shown in , processing begins in block  where the system retrieves the user information from store , and causes interfaces ,  and  to listen for new message or call events associated with the user (e.g. voice mail, email, missed phone calls, information events, etc.). In one example, where message interfaces such as MAPI\/CDO or IMAP are supported by servers ,  and\/or , this may involve providing the paths to the message folders maintained for the user to the interfaces, upon which the interfaces subscribe to the associated servers , ,  for receiving event notifications for the specified folders. In another example, such as with \u201craw\u201d information feeds monitored by information interface , this may involve configuring interface  with the targeted information source and a periodic interval with which to monitor the source for information that matches rules and filters established by the user.","Processing advances to block  where it is determined that a message event has been received by one of interfaces ,  and\/or  for the user (e.g. voice mail, email, missed phone call, information event, etc.). Information about the message and\/or the entire message is sent to the notification server  for inspection to determine whether the message is one that the user is interested in receiving notifications about. This is performed in block . For example, for a new message notification server  compares the information and\/or message with delivery preferences established by the user and stored in information store  (e.g. notify about new voice mails, but not emails; notify only about new messages from a certain caller\/sender; notify only about priority messages, etc.) For a deleted or read message, notification server  may simply compare the information about the message with messages in a list maintained in message information store  to determine if this is a message that the user has already received a notification about. In either case, if the notification server determines that this is a message that the user is interested in receiving notification about, processing advances to block . Otherwise, processing returns to block  until a new message event is received.","In block , the user's list of messages is updated. In other words, if the message is a new message, it is added to the user's list. If the message has been deleted or read, the message is removed from the list. Processing continues to block , where it is determined whether it is an appropriate time to send an alert to the user. For example, the system may be pre-configured or dynamically configured by the user to only send messages at certain time intervals (e.g. 15 minutes), so that the user will not be overwhelmed by alerts. Additionally or alternatively, the system may be configured to only forward alerts when new messages are received.","If it is an appropriate time to send an alert to the user's device, processing advances to block  where an alert message is prepared. In one example of the invention, the message to be displayed on the user's WAP-enabled device takes the form of \u201ce-M (3e, 2v*, 1f, 2t, 3c, 1m) [John Smith].\u201d This notation indicates that the user's list in store  indicates that the user has received 3 emails, 2 voice mails, 1 fax, 2 text messages, 3 CRM events and 1 missed telephone call that are of interest to the user (perhaps only those that have not yet been read or acknowledged by the user). The asterisk next to the voice mail total indicates that the voice mail is the most recent feed, and the sender of the new voice mail is John Smith. The notification server thus prepares a WAP Push message that will cause the above type of message to be displayed based on the updated list of messages for the user. It should be noted that this type of message contains very few characters so that it can be displayed on a wide variety of devices, such as cell phones, that have a limited display capability. It should be further noted that the number of message feeds indicated by the alert can be pre-configured by all users or may be tailored for each user in accordance with their alert preferences (e.g. the user may only wish to be notified about voice mails and emails, but not faxes).","Processing advances to block , where the alert message is forwarded to the user's WAP-enabled device. This block can include retrieving the user's device configuration and carrier settings from user information store  and providing this information to the WAP Push interface . In one example of the invention, WAP push protocol is used to send the message to the user's wireless device. This includes posting XML encoded documents using HTTP protocol. It should be apparent that other alternatives are possible. This block can further include processing to determine whether to send the alert via a \u201cforeground\u201d feed versus a \u201cbackground\u201d feed (e.g. send alerts containing new messages via \u201cforeground\u201d feeds, but send alerts with no new messages via \u201cbackground\u201d feeds).","After the message alert is sent, or if a message event was received but the time was not appropriate for sending an alert, processing advances to block , where it is determined whether the user still desires to receive message alerts. For example, the user may have returned to the office and has indicated to the notification system that he no longer desires message alerts to be sent. If the user does not wish to receive alerts any longer, processing ends. Otherwise processing returns to block .","Although the present invention has been particularly described with reference to the preferred embodiments thereof, it should be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that changes and modifications in the form and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is intended that the appended claims include such changes and modifications."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00012","num":"00012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00013","num":"00013"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00014","num":"00014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
