---
title: Method and apparatus for dynamically controlling scroller speed employed for a user interface of a wearable appliance
abstract: A wearable mobile computing device/appliance (e.g., a wrist watch) with a high resolution display that is capable of wirelessly accessing information from the network and a variety of other devices. The Wrist Watch device/appliance includes a user interface that is used to efficiently interact with alarms, time keeping functions and notifications on the watch via use of a scroll device implementing dynamic scroll speed controller capability which enables seamless fine-grain and coarse-grain scroll and/or cursor movement through displayed content without notice to the user of the scroll device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07081905&OS=07081905&RS=07081905
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07081905
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20000630
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to mobile computing devices such as personal digital assistants (PDAs), cellular phones, pagers, and the like, and more specifically, to a wearable device\/appliance (e.g., a wrist watch) capable of wirelessly accessing information and equipped with an interactive user interface and high-resolution display including a scroll device implementing dynamic speed control for enabling seamless fine-grain and coarse-grain scroll and\/or cursor movement through displayed content without notice to the user of the scroll device.","2. Discussion of the Prior Art","Computing, mobile and wireless communications technologies have been rapidly advancing-culminating in a variety of powerful user friendly devices such as personal digital assistants (PDAs), cellular phones, pagers, etc. Today, it is possible to purchase handheld PDA's, e.g., palmtops such as the Palm Pilot\u00ae, that employ wireless communication devices and that combines computing, telephone\/fax, and networking features. A typical PDA may function as a cellular phone, fax sender, and personal organizer and are pen-based, requiring a stylus for text entry. As such, these device incorporate handwriting recognition features and may even employ voice recognition technologies that react to voice input. Small devices such as the RIM 950 and the Motorola PageWriter 2000 pager use a small keyboard for input.","Today, the industry is striving to provide advancements by providing increased PC desktop-like functionality while both decreasing size and power requirements. More recently there have been attempts to incorporate some of the capabilities of the above devices into wrist watches. However, today, only special wearable watch devices are available that, besides time keeping functions, may possess a compass, or a Global Positioning System (GPS), or barometer, heart rate monitor, Personal Handy System (PHS) phone, pager, etc. There are shortcomings in these existing special function watches in that most of them are bulky, are mostly unconnected the Internet or other PC\/network devices, have limited battery life, and, are difficult to use. These currently available special function wrist watches additionally have user interfaces that are quite limited in what they can display. For example, in the context of setting time in digital watches, currently, the user is only enabled to set the hour and minute independently, with time only advancing in one direction. Furthermore, most of them have a 6 to 8 seven segment LED or LCDs which can be used to display 6 or 8 digits\/letters, and have a small number of indicators that can display AM\/PM, Alarm on\/off, etc. only at fixed locations within the display. A few watches are currently appearing on the market that have slightly richer display characteristics. Regardless, these various shortcomings have to be solved, otherwise there is no compelling reason for these watches to become popular. The design of a wrist watch for mobile computing applications offers a significant challenge because the watch is a small device. That is, both fitting components and power supplies such as batteries into such a small volume and given the limited screen size of watches pose limitations that have be overcome. Solving these issues is worthy because the watch is an attractive form as 1) it is one of the few devices that a very large fraction of the population is already accustomed to worldwide, 2) is accessible almost all the time, and, 3) is hard to lose.","It would thus be highly desirable to provide a wearable device\/appliance (a wrist watch) capable of wirelessly accessing information and equipped with an interactive user interface and high resolution display for providing a variety of desktop PC-like functions.","It would additionally be highly desirable to provide a wearable device\/appliance (a wrist watch) capable of wirelessly accessing information and equipped with an interactive user interface equipped with a scroll device, e.g., roller ball, wheel or dial-type controller, for enabling scrolling through text and graphics displayed via the user interface.","Moreover, it would additionally be highly desirable to provide a wearable device\/appliance (a wrist watch) capable of wirelessly accessing information and equipped with an interactive user interface equipped with a scroll device implementing a dynamic scroll speed controller for reducing the amount of user manipulation of the scroller to get to a particular point in the display the user wants to get to, while retaining fine-grain control over positioning.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a wearable device\/appliance (a wrist watch) capable of wirelessly accessing information and equipped with an interactive user interface and high resolution display for providing a variety of desktop PC-like functions.","It is another object of the present invention to provide a wearable device\/appliance (a wrist watch) capable of wirelessly accessing information and equipped with an interactive user interface including a scroll device implementing a dynamic scroll speed controller for enabling fine-grain and coarse-grain positioning of a scroll and\/or cursor positioning of displayed content in a manner seamless to the user.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a wearable device\/appliance (a wrist watch) capable of wirelessly accessing information and equipped with an interactive user interface implementing a dynamic scroll device for enabling scrolling through text and graphics displayed via the user interface in a manner such that the amount of user manipulation of the scroller to get to a particular position in the display the user wants to get to is reduced, while retaining fine-grain control over positioning without needing excessive scroller manipulation.","According to the invention, there is provided a system and method for dynamically controlling scrolling functions of a display indicator provided in a wearable appliance that displays textual or graphical content, the appliance implementing a scroll device for generating scroll events in response to user manipulation thereof, the method comprising the steps of: receiving scroll events for incrementally advancing the indicator per scroll event in a first direction to provide fine-grain scroll indicator movement, and simultaneously tracking the advancing direction; determining a predetermined number of the fine-grain indicator increments in the first direction; and, thereafter, in response to continued receipt of scroll events, providing, in a manner that is seamless to a user, coarse-grain scroll indicator movement by advancing said indicator for a pre-determined number of increments per scroll event in the first direction, the coarse-grain scroll indicator movement greater than the fine-grain scroll indicator movement, whereby fewer scroll device manipulations are required to achieve a desired scroll indicator position on the display.","Advantageously, such a method and system may be implemented for any application requiring large scrolling movements, including an application providing time-keeping and time-setting display functions where the scroll device is manipulated for controlling minute and hour-hand indicators.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"10"},"As shown in , the Wrist Watch device  is based on a modular concept designed to include a motherboard or base card  of minimum card size that leverages state-of-the-art technologies as will be described in greater detail herein. Specifically, the base card  may be implemented in various types of shells , . . . , for enabling various functions. For example, the base card  may be implemented in a basic shell providing desktop like functionality via a touch screen display; a hands-free mobile shell providing, in addition to basic desktop functionality, a communications interface with GPS and mobile phone communications capability etc., and including a touch screen display, scroll\/pointing devices, and microphone and speaker devices; and an expanded function shell , providing touch screen, buttons and support for various devices such as GPS\/compass, thermometer, barometer, altimeter, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","20","50","50","55","57","50","58","59","10","60","50","55","50","10","50","65","66"]},"With further reference to , the main card  has no audio capability but is equipped with a PCM audio interface in expansion tabs (not shown) for an accessory card, i.e., either card  or , in the expanded-shell Wrist Watch designs that support PCM audio. Particularly, the accessory card ,  implemented includes a speaker and a microphone combination ,  respectively, with the microphone functioning to record voice input which may be processed by the processor subsystem or stored in a storage subsystem for subsequent playback, and the speaker functioning to provide voice output, produce customized tones, and enable acoustic coupling with other listening devices, etc. As shown in , each speaker\/microphone combination .  is connected to a respective pulse-coded modulation PCM coder\/encoder devices (CODECs) ,  which are controlled by a respective PCM interface , to the CPU . The accessory card ,  is additionally equipped with various communications subsystems including low power and intermediary power radio frequency communications devices that support a Wireless Application Protocol (\u201cWAP\u201d) used to provide communications links to mobile computers, mobile phones, portable handheld devices and, connectivity to the Internet. In one embodiment, the specific communications subsystems include circuitry for supporting BlueTooth  or like small-factor, low-cost radio solution circuitry, e.g., an RF-modem , and may include other low power radio and Flex-paging communications circuits (not shown), etc. For instance, as shown in , the auxiliary communication card  implements the BlueTooth industry standard for Radio Frequency (RF) communication, however, it is understood that other standards such as IEEE 802.11 or other RF protocols may be implemented as well. Moreover, portions of these communication protocols may be implemented on the processor on the main board  so that the total number of the components required is minimized. The CPU system on the main card  preferably employs a first Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter (UART1) device (not shown) for supporting either the RF-modem  or Bluetooth  communications functionality and, may be equipped with a second UART device (UART2) providing support for data download functionality, e.g., from a PC or network server. It is understood that any like data transfer mechanism or data exchange interface device may be implemented to provide data download and RF communications support functionality.","For purposes of interacting with the device, the Wrist Watch system  is provided with a touch sensitive screen\/panel  shaped within a standard watch form factor, and also a roller wheel mechanism, i.e., jog encoder . The touch sensitive screen enables the direct launching of applications by physical user entry of a graffiti \u201csquiggle\u201d in the manner such as described in commonly-owned co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/607,596 entitled GRAFFITI BASED APPLICATION LAUNCH ON A SMART WATCH, the whole contents and disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, and may initiate other applications\/actions\/events by physical touching of certain Wrist Watch display areas. In one embodiment, the touch sensitive screen panel is provided with a four (4) position touch screen. For instance, forward and back navigation for Wrist Watch displays is enabled by physically touching certain areas of the touch sensitive panel. The roller wheel mechanism  may be rolled up or down (i.e., clockwise or anticlockwise) to simulate a display cursor scrolling function for text and graphics. For example, in the context of the present invention, the roller wheel mechanism  generates signals that are A\/D converted for receipt by the processor to enable movement of the Wrist Watch display cursor, and more particularly, movement of displayed minute hand and hour hand indicators for setting of various alarms and time-keeping functions provided by the Wrist Watch system. Preferably, when the wheel mechanism moves by more than a predetermined amount e.g. 20\u00b0 degrees, the wheel generates a signal as a mouse device would when rolled. If a user rolls the wheel continuously, the wheel generates a signal for every 20 degrees of rotation (hereinafter \u201crotation event(s)\u201d), with the event generated including an indication specifying whether the wheel was turned clockwise or anticlockwise. In this manner, the direction of the roller wheel, and consequently, the direction of cursor movement through a particular display, is tracked by the processor. The roller wheel mechanism additionally may be pushed or depressed to generate a signal (hereinafter \u201cwheel click event(s)\u201d), akin to a keypress or mouse click event, for activating a selected application, hyperlink or a menu item. In an alternate embodiment, the roller device may comprise a bezel which may be rotated and depressed for generating rotation and wheel click events respectively, such as described in commonly-owned co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/607,594 entitled BEZEL BASED USER INTERFACE FOR A SMART WATCH, the whole contents and disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. It is understood that other types of scroll device maybe implemented to provide cursor movement, e.g., a slider. Moreover, a standard button may be implemented for providing selection functions.","As further shown in , various Analog to Digital converters (ADC)  support an interface with the touch screen display panel , and an interface with the jog encoder or button for the roller wheel mechanism . An interface  is provided for a unit  housing a high resolution (VGA equivalent) emissive Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) high contrast display . Further, the main card  for the basic shell interfaces to a buzzer  controlled directly by the CPU  using its buzzer interface and timer counters. To detect the posture of the watch, a mechanical four-way tilt sensor  is further provided comprising mechanical switches (for detecting degree of tilt) producing signals which may be detected by the CPU. This sensor may be used for the various purposes such as power management, display control, etc. In a preferred embodiment, additional sensors may be attached to the Wrist Watch device over an interface. Examples may include additional tilt and motion (velocity, direction, speed) sensors, environment sensors such as thermal sensors, pressure sensors, health monitoring sensors such as blood pressure, etc. The Wrist Watch accordingly provides the display for the sensor and may also analyze the data collected from the sensors.","With more particularity, the high contrast display  of  does not need a backlight to make the display visible. Thus, the power consumed by the display is proportional to the number of pixels that are turned on in the display. Since the pixels preferably comprise light emitting diodes, the display is automatically visible at night and a user does not need to press any buttons to see the display. Moreover, the OLED display  may be viewed clearly at a wide variety of angles with the brightness of these displays being controlled by limiting the amount of current supplied to the diodes. In one embodiment, the OLED chip  is a high-resolution pixel addressable display, e.g., 640\u00d7480, for enabling the display of various textual and graphical items on the watch face, similar to what may be displayed on a computer screen or a Palm Pilot\u00ae. For example, the time may be represented by drawing the hour and minute hands on a watchface display. Further, the hands of the watchface display may be erased when, at some other time, a display of a photograph is desired to be displayed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["200","10","210","212","214","216","218","220","222","224","226","228","229","230","240","250","255","260","250","270","270"]},"As further shown in , the Wrist Watch device  is equipped with Wrist Watch shell application software  provided on top of the basic graphics, communication and synchronization subsystems. One key application supported is the microbrowser which enables access to a WAP supporting Web site and receives Web-based communications written in, for example, the Wireless Markup Language (\u201cWML\u201d) using the XML standard. WML particularly is designed to optimize Internet text data for delivery over limited-bandwidth wireless networks and onto small device screens, and particularly, is devised to support navigation with limited input mechanisms, e.g., buttons. Details regarding the implementation of WML in the Wrist Watch device may be found in commonly-owned, co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/608,042 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD EMPLOYING WML ANNOTATIONS FOR USER INTERFACE CONTROL OF A WEARABLE APPLIANCE the contents and disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Other supported applications include Personal Information Management (PIM) applications software .  illustrates an example system display  providing a main menu  comprising selectable icons for launching the following PIM applications: an icon  for launching an application directed to displaying\/maintaining \u201cto do\u201d lists, an icon  for launching an application directed to displaying\/maintaining calendars and appointments, an icon  for launching an application directed to retrieving\/storing\/displaying e-mail messages, an icon  for launching an application directed to retrieving\/storing\/displaying digital photographs and bit-mapped images, an icon  for launching an application directed to retrieving\/storing (displaying phone lists, an icon  for launching an application directed to setting of time and alarms which is shown highlighted and indicated by the displayed text \u201cSET ALARMS\u201d, an icon  for launching an application directed to retrieving\/storing\/displaying comic images such as Dilbert\u00a9 United Feature Syndicate, Inc., and, an icon  for launching an application directed to providing stop watch and elapsed time features. Other applications may include those enabling the receipt of excerpts of personalized data, such as traffic information, weather reports, school closings, stock reports, sports scores, etc., from the world wide web. These excerpts may be received as notifications or alarms on the Wrist Watch system . Inter-device interaction software applications are included to permit the watch display to become the display for another device such as a GPS located in a concealed location, (e.g., a bag), or a thermostat on the wall, etc. Thus, this application software enables communication between the other device and the Wrist Watch by receiving\/displaying the data and transmitting back information sent from the Wrist Watch. As a further example, caller Id information may be displayed on the Wrist Watch display when the cell phone that belongs to that person rings.","Typically, multiple persons are congregated in a room and carry their cell phones in a hand bag or wear them on their belts, have a hard time determining which cell phone is ringing when a ringing tone is heard in a room. This results in every person in the room pulling out his\/her cell phone out of their handbag or belt to check if it is the one that is ringing. The caller Id display feature of the Wrist Watch device is particularly advantageous as each wearer may simply glance at the watch and would immediately know if the ringing phone belonged to him\/her, in addition, to determining who the calling party is facilitating the decision of whether or not he\/she should answer the phone. In a further example, this application software may allow the data from the Wrist Watch storage subsystem  to be viewed on another device such as on a PDA, PC, and other community viewing devices. In the preferred embodiment, middleware such as Tcl\/Tk, Javascript, Perl, or the like etc., may run on top of the operating system, graphics and communication manager APIs for facilitating rapid development of these applications the Wrist Watch device .","As discussed above, the roller wheel may be manipulated either clockwise or anti clockwise, for cursor movement within a Wrist Watch text or graphic display generating either rotation events, or wheel click events when depressed. The present invention is directed to the manner in which the rotation events and wheel click events are interpreted so as to reduce the number of events required to accomplish tasks on the Wrist Watch via the interface.","One task that the user may need to perform on the watch is to set the hour and minute hands to a particular value; for example, to set an alarm for a particular time. ) and () illustrates a Wrist Watch user interface  providing an alarm setting feature as described in detail in commonly-owned, co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/608,043 entitled ALARM INTERFACE FOR SMART WATCH, the whole contents and disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. As shown in ) and () there is provided the Wrist Watch display  comprising a watch face  having indicators ,  corresponding to hour hand  and minute hand , respectively, for setting an alarm notification time in hours and minutes via control of the Wrist Watch roller wheel device. The problem addressed by the present invention is to enable precise control for setting the alarm (as shown via watch indicators , ) to a particular value (for example, to 12:53 PM) but avoid having to continuously turn the roller wheel so that it generates a large number of rotation events (for example, 53 events to set the minute hand to 53).","The methodology of the present invention is to dynamically vary the number of minutes the minute hand moves forward per rotation event while tracking the latest direction in which the roller wheel is moving. If the current direction is the same as the previous direction and the minute hand is positioned so that the current minute indicated is a multiple of a predetermined number, e.g., five (5), the minute hand moves forward or back by five (5) minutes (depending on the direction of rolling). When the direction changes, the minute hand moves by single or (1) minute increments instead of five (5) minute increments, for example. Thus, in an example of setting watch hands ,  to a value of 6:43 AM, in order to move the minute hand from 0 to 43, from a position where the minute hand is currently at a twelve o'clock position, the user will first roll the wheel clockwise for five (5) clicks to go from 0 to 1 to 2 so on till five (5). Then, in the same direction, the user will roll the wheel clockwise for eight (8) more clicks to get the minute hand to forty-five (45), and then back (anti-clockwise) two (2) clicks to get to forty-three (43).","It is understood that variants of this method are possible. For example, instead of just using increments of 1 and 5, the steps may be dynamically increased, for instance, using steps of 1, 5 and 15. In this case, given the present example, the user will first roll for five (5) clicks to get to five (5). Then, in the same direction, the user will roll the wheel clockwise for two (2) more clicks in the same direction to get to fifteen (15) and then two (2) more clicks to get to forty-five (45). Then two clicks anti-clockwise to get to forty-three (43). In other words, when the rolling direction is unchanged and the minute hand hits a 15 minute boundary, the hand advances by 15 minutes; if it hits a 5 minute boundary (but not a 15 minute boundary), it advances by 5 minutes.","A related idea is to independently control the hour and minute hands and to switch the control of the roller from one to the other on a wheel click event. To set the time to 6:43 AM, the roller could first be controlling the hour hand, with each click moving the hand by 1 hour. Once the hour hand has been set to 6 AM, a roller wheel click event fixes the hour hand and now controls the minute hand which is set as described above with the dynamically varying interpretation of the roller clicks.","The detailed algorithm for providing dynamic speed scrolling of the minute hand in order to reduce the amount of user manipulation of the scroller to get to a particular position that the user wants to reach while retaining fine-grain control over positioning without needing excessive scroller manipulation, is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Forward Click"]},{"entry":[{},"if { (lastdir == fwd) && (minute % 5) == 0 } {"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"minute = minute + 5"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"} else {"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"minute = minute + 1"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"}"]},{"entry":[{},"if { minute >= 60 } {"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"minute = minute \u2212 60"]},{"entry":[{},"hour = (hour + 1) % 24"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"}"]},{"entry":[{},"lastdir = fwd"]},{"entry":[{},"Reverse Click"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"if { (lastdir == rev) && (minute % 5) == 0 } {"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"minute = minute \u2212 5"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"} else {"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"minute = minute \u2212 1"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"}"]},{"entry":[{},"if { minute < 0 } {"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"154pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"minute = minute + 60"]},{"entry":[{},"hour = (hour \u2212 1 + 24) % 24"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"}"]},{"entry":[{},"lastdir = rev"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"It is understood that the present invention may be used for other forms of scrolling where one needs fine control over a wide range. Dynamic scrolling may be used in any situation which benefits from fast movement and where any overshoot may be corrected quickly with small reverse steps. So this applies to scrolling through text, scrolling through horizontal time lines, spread sheets, moving past TV program listings, months in a calendar, etc.","Accordingly, a generalized version of the algorithm is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"A: if (wheel_forward signal) {"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"if (last_wheel_signal = reverse) forward_movements = 0;"]},{"entry":[{},"forward_movements = forward_movements + 1;"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"last_wheel_signal = forward;"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["B:","if (forward_movements > high_forward_threshold)"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"scroll forward by high_forward_increment;"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["C:","else scroll forward by low_forward_increment;"]},{"entry":["D:","} else if (wheel_reverse_signal) {"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"if (last_wheel_signal = forward) reverse_movements = 0;"]},{"entry":[{},"reverse_movements = reverse_movements + 1;"]},{"entry":[{},"last_wheel_signal = reverse;"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":["E:","if (reverse_movements > high_reverse_threshold)"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"\u2002scroll reverse by high_reverse_increment;"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["F:","else scroll reverse by low_reverse_increment;"]},{"entry":[{},"}"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"It is not necessary that the high_forward_increment equal the low_forward_increment though it may be desired to keep these values symmetric.","While the invention has been particularly shown and described with respect to illustrative and preformed embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing and other changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be limited only by the scope of the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Further features, aspects and advantages of the apparatus and methods of the present invention will become better understood with regard to the following description, appended claims, and accompanying drawings where:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["200","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"300"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 5(","i":["a","b"],"b":["5","350"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
