---
title: Detection of biological warfare agents
abstract: Methods and devices are provided for the detection of bacterial agents such agents as and with high sensitivity and selectivity. More specifically, methods and devices are based on a phosphorescence-emission detection system using chelate-stabilized lanthanides (e.g, Eu(III), Tb(III), and Sm(III)) to detect various spore-specific small organic molecules (e.g., dipicolinic acid, diaminopimelic acid, n-acetlymuramic acid, and the like). By careful selection of the chelating agent or ligand coordinated to the lanthanide, both high specificity and selectivity can be obtained. Examples of suitable and preferred sensor systems include N-(2-hydroxyethyl)ethylenediaminetriacetic acid (HEDTA) and N-(2-hydroxyethyl)iminodiacetic acid (HEIDA) combined with europium (III) and/or terbium (III). The chelate-stabilized lanthanides react with the spore-specific “target” molecules to form a characteristically phosphorescent product which can then be detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06838292&OS=06838292&RS=06838292
owner: Alion Science and Technology Corporation
number: 06838292
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20000414
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is based on, and claims benefit of, U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/130,009 filed on Apr. 19, 1999.","This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. MDA 972-97-C0021 (Defense Advanced Research Project Agency, Biological Warfare Defense). The Government has certain rights in the invention.","This invention relates to methods for the detection of biological agents, especially biological warfare agents, using a spore-specific phosphorescence approach. More specifically, the methods of this invention allow the detection of the spores of biological warfare agents such as and at very high sensitivity (generally at levels of about 500 to 1000 spores or even lower) combined with high selectivity and ease of use. The methods of the present invention are especially adapted for use in the field (e.g., in terrorist or combat scenarios) by personnel at risk of exposure to such agents. A simple, single-person, hand-held or worn biological detector for field use is provided.","Weapons of mass destruction are, unfortunately, a fact of life as we approach the 21Century. Of grave concern are bacterial agents, such as and , that could be used by rogue or aggressor countries and\/or international terrorists. Such biological agents could be easily dispersed in urban and\/or battlefield areas using a multitude of delivery devices. Just the threat of such an attack can cause considerable harm to the threatened population or area as well as national security. Moreover, the risk of such threats and attacks will likely increase as it becomes increasingly easy to prepare, use, and\/or deliver such biological agents anywhere in the world. Thus, highly sensitive and selective detection methods are vital to our national security both at home and abroad.","The detection methods currently available generally lack the desired sensitivity, selectivity, and\/or speed for such bacterial agents as and . Currently available detection methods include, for example, PCR with fluorescence detection, fluorescent antibody staining techniques (FAST), partichrome analyzers, bioluminescence-based systems, electrochemiluminescence-based systems, and stimulated induced fluorescence techniques for on-site and remote detection. Some of these techniques (e.g., PCR with fluorescence detection, ELISA, and FAST), although having high specificity, have relatively low sensitivity (minimum of 10to 10spores for detection) and are time consuming (generally requiring 0.5 to 6 hours for results). See, e.g., Redkar et al., \u201cRapid Detection of Select Pathogenic Bacteria by Real Time PCR,\u201d Abstract, Scientific Conference on Chemical and Biological Defense Research, Aberdeen Proving Ground (1998); Ibrahim, \u201cDetection of Biological Agents Using Probe-Based PCR Assay,\u201d Abstract, Scientific. Conference on Chemical and Biological Defense Research, Aberdeen Proving Ground (1998); Gatto-Menking et al., \u201cRapid Post PCR Protection Using IGEN's Origen Analyzer,\u201d Abstract, Scientific Conference on Chemical and Biological Defense Research, Aberdeen Proving Ground (1998); Bruno et al., \u201cDevelopment of Selex DNA Aptamers for the Detection of Anthrax Spores,\u201d Abstract, Scientific Conference on Chemical and Biological Defense Research, Aberdeen Proving Ground (1998); and Nagata et al., \u201cDevelopment of Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) to Anthrax for the Persian Gulf,\u201d Defense Information System Agency, ADA297350 (1995). Bioluminescence- and electrochemiluminescence-based systems, although having increased sensitivity (minimum of about 200 spores for detection) and being somewhat faster, suffer because of reduced specificity. See, e.g., Gatto-Menking et al., \u201cRapid Post PCR Protection Using IGEN's Origen Analyzer,\u201d Abstract, Scientific Conference on Chemical and Biological Defense Research, Aberdeen Proving Ground (1998); and Bartoszcze et al., \u201cThe Sensitivity of the Bioluminescence Method Regarding Microbiological Detection in Contaminated Water and on Surfaces,\u201d Abstract, Scientific Conference on Chemical and Biological Defense Research, Aberdeen Proving Ground (1998). Additionally, stimulated induced fluorescence methods have be used to detect or target the amino acid tryptophan. However, since tryptophan is common to most biological materials, techniques relying on its detection have very poor selectivity.","There remains, therefore, a need for simple detection methods and devices for bacterial agents such agents as and . Moreover, there remains a need for such detection methods and devices having high sensitivity and high selectivity and which can provide real-time data. There remains a need for such detection methods and devices which can be carried by personnel who may be exposed to such bacterial agents and provide warning so that protective measures can be taken to avoid or minimize exposure to such bacterial agents. There also remains a need for such detection methods and devices which have low rates of false positives. This invention provides such methods and devices for the detection of bacterial agents such as and . This invention also provides such methods and devices for the detection of viable spores of and . Moreover, these and other advantages and benefits of the present methods and devices will be apparent from a consideration of the present specification.","This invention provides methods and devices for the detection of bacterial agents such as and , including viable spores and , with high sensitivity and selectivity. More specifically, the present invention provides a phosphorescence-based detection system using chelated lanthanides (e.g, Eu(III), Tb(III), and Sm(III)) as the sensor component to detect various spore-specific small organic molecules (e.g., dipicolinic acid, diaminopimelic acid, n-acetlymuramic acid, and the like). By careful selection of the polydendate chelating agent or ligand attached to the lanthanide, sensor compounds having stability over a wide range of pH values can be obtained. This pH stability allows for the use of optimum pH values for specific \u201ctarget\u201d compounds associated with, and specific for, the bacterial spores. Thus, this stability allows for both high specificity and selectivity in the methods of this invention. Examples of suitable and preferred sensor systems include N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-ethylenediaminetriacetic acid (HEDTA) and\/or N-(2-hydroxyethyl)iminodiacetic acid (HEIDA) bound with europium (III) and\/or terbium (III). The chelated lanthanides (e.g., Eu(III)-HEDTA, Tb(III)-HEDTA, Eu(III)-HEIDA) and Tb(III)-HEIDA) react with the spore-specific \u201ctarget\u201d molecules to form a characteristically phosphorescent product which can then be detected and, if desired, quantified.","One object of the present invention is a device for the detection of biological warfare agent spores, said device comprising (1) a matrix with a chelated lanthanide compound immobilized therein, wherein the chelated lanthanide compound can react with spore-specific target compounds derived from the biological warfare agent spores to produce a reaction product that is capable of producing a characteristic phosphorescent emission; (2) a means for exciting the reaction compound to produce the characteristic phosphorescent emission; and (3) a means for detecting the characteristic phosphorescent emission; wherein the spore-specific target compounds are selected from the group consisting of dipicolinic acid, diaminopimelic acid, n-acetylmuramic acid, sulfolactic acid, and phosphoglyceric acid. Preferably, the chelated lanthanide compounds are N-(2-hydroxyethyl) ethylenediaminetriacetic acid or N-(2-hydroxyethyl)iminodiacetic acid chelates of the lanthanide ions europium (III), terbium (III), or samarium (III) wherein the lanthanide ions are partially chelated and have at least two coordination sites available for reaction with the spore-specific target compounds. More preferred are the europium (III) and\/or terbium (III) chelates. Preferred target compounds include dipicolinic acid, diaminopimelic acid, and n-acetylmuramic acid. Preferably, the device also has an alarm mechanism which is activated if the characteristic phosphorescent emission is detected.","Another object of the present invention is a method for the detection of biological warfare agent spores in a sample, said method comprising: (1) providing a matrix containing an immobilized partially chelated lanthanide compound which can react with spore-specific target compounds derived from the biological warfare agent spores to produce a reaction product that is capable of producing a characteristic phosphorescent emission; (2) contacting at least a portion of the matrix with the sample; (3) irradiating the portion of the matrix with exciting radiation to produce the characteristic phosphorescent emission; and (4) detecting the characteristic phosphorescent emission; wherein the detection of the characteristic phosphorescent emission indicates the presence of biological warfare agent spores in the sample. Preferably, the partially chelated lanthanide compounds are N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-ethylenediaminetriacetic acid or N-hydroxyethyliminodiacetic acid chelates of the lanthanide ions europium (III), terbium (III), or samarium (III) wherein the lanthanide ions have at least two coordination sites available for reaction with the spore-specific target compounds. More preferred are the europium (III) and\/or terbium (III) chelates. Preferably, the method also includes the activation of an alarm if the characteristic phosphorescent emission is detected.","These and other objectives and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the present specification and appended claims.","The present invention provide methods and devices for the detection of biological warfare agents, especially and , using spore-specific phosphorescence. More specifically, the present invention provide methods and devices for the detection of spores of and using spore-specific. phosphorescence. The present methods and devices are based on the reaction of specific spore-derived small target molecules with sensor compounds to produce a reaction products having unique phosphorescence characteristics. The general reaction scheme can be illustrated by the following equations:","\u2003Sensor+Target-Spore\u21c4Reaction Product+Residual Spore","and\n\nReaction Product+hv\u2192Phosphorescent Product\u2192Light Emission (hv)\n\nwhere the exciting frequence v, is typically in the range of about 270 to 280 nm and emission frequency is typically in the range of about 500 to 650 nm. The phosphorescent reaction product, if formed, indicates the presence of spores of the biological warfare agent. The phosphorescent reaction product (i.e., sensor-target moiety) should have a characteristic phosphorescence for detection purposes. This reaction scheme is also illustrated in  using an immobilized Eu-HEDTA sensor and a spore having dipicolinic acid (DPA) in or associated with its cortex. As can be seen in , DPA is chelated to europium to form the phosphorescent product (i.e., Eu(III)-HEDTA-DPA chelate). The Eu(III)-HEDTA-DPA chelate, when excited at the appropriate wavelength (i.e., about 271 nm), will exhibit a characteristic phosphorescence emission. Generally, the target compounds are more readily released from spores at acidic pHs (generally about 2 to about 4); thus, sampling is preferably carried out at low pH values. To obtain high phosphorescence sensitivity, however, it is preferred that the matrix containing the sensor compounds, once chelated with the target compounds during the sampling period, is adjusted to basic conditions (generally about 10-12). Thus, it is generally preferred that the methods and devices of this invention have the ability to adjust the pH form relative low values during sampling to maximize release of target compounds and then to relative high values to maximize the phosphorescent reactions. The sensor compounds of the present invention are stable over this relatively broad range of pH values.\n","Suitable sensor compounds are chelated lanthanides wherein at least one, and preferably at least two, coordination sites on the lanthanide ion are available for reaction with the target compounds. Suitable lanthanides include, for example, europium, terbium, samarium, and mixtures thereof. Generally the preferred lanthanides are Eu(III) and Tb(III). Non-spore related bidentate or other multi-dentate chelating agents or ligands can be used to stabilize the lanthanide ions. Examples of preferred ligands, each having four or more potential binding sites for the lanthanide metal ions, include N-(2-hydroxyethyl)ethylened iaminetriacetic acid (H EDTA), N-(2-hydroxyethyl)iminodiacetic acid (HEIDA), and mixtures thereof. Preferred chelated sensor compounds include Eu(III)-(HEDTA), Eu(III)-(HEIDA), Tb(III)-(HEDTA), Tb(III)-(HEIDA), Sm(III)-(HEDTA), and Sm(III)-(HEIDA), where x is from 1 to 2, inclusive. Generally, sensor compounds where x is 2 are preferred. Especially preferred chelated sensor compounds include Eu-(HEDTA), Eu(III)-(HEIDA), Tb(III)-(HEDTA), and Tb(III)-(HEIDA)where the molar ratio of lanthanide to ligand is 1:2. Compounds having 1:2 ratio of lanthanide to chelate still have at least two potential binding sites available since, because of steric hindrance, the lanthanide is only partially chelated. Of course, other ligands may be used so long as they can immobilize and stabilize the sensor compound and the sensor compound, when reacted with target compounds from the spore, provides the necessary phosphorescent complex. Other such ligands include, for example, nitrilotriacetic acid, iminodiacetic acid, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, and the like. As noted above, the release of target compounds from spores is enhanced at low pH values while the phosphorescence reactions are enhanced at high pH values. Thus, it is preferred that the lanthanide chelate sensor compounds are stable over this broad pH range.","The lanthanide chelate sensor compounds of this invention must have at least one coordination site open or available for binding with the target compounds from the spores. Preferably, the lanthanide chelate sensor compounds have at least two coordination sites open or available for binding with the target compounds from the spores. Generally, it is preferred that the lanthanide chelate sensor compounds have two coordination sites available for binding. General idealized structures of such lanthanide chelate sensor compounds having two and four coordination sites, respectively, available for binding with target compounds are as follows: \n\n\nwhere Ln is the lanthanide ion and dark curved lines represent a quadra-dentate and a bidentate ligand, respectively. Examples of such multi-dentate ligands include HEDTA and HEIDA: \n\n\nwhere dotted lines represent potential binding sites. Of course, as those skilled in the art will realize, such multi-dentate ligands may not use all of their binding sites to attach to the lanthanide ions. Indeed, some of these binding sites will remain unbound due steric constraints.\n","The target molecules used for the methods and devices of this invention are spore-specific and are generally relatively small molecules. Suitable target molecules, derived from the spores of and , include dipicolinic acid, diaminopimelic acid, n-acetylmuramic acid, sulfolactic acid, and phosphoglyceric acid. Preferred target molecules include dipicolinic acid, diaminopimelic acid, and n-acetylmuramic acid. Dipicolinic acid is a significant component of ; diaminopimelic acid and n-acetylmuramic acid are significant components of . Moreover, n-acetylmuramic acid is normally associated with the spore mucopeptide. Structures of the target compounds dipicolinic acid, diaminopimelic acid, showing their potential binding sites to the lanthanide ion, are as follows: \n\n","The phosphorescence exciting and emission wavelengths of the sensor compound will vary depending on the specific lanthanide and ligand used (i.e., the specific sensor system) and the target species. For example, the maximum excitation phosphorescence is observed near 270 nm for the Eu(III) and Tb(III) sensor compounds bound to dipicolinic acid. The maximum phosphorescence emission is at about 545 nm for Tb(III) sensor compounds and at about 625 nm for Eu(III) sensor compounds. Generally, sensor compounds having a molar ratio of lanthanide to ligand between about 1 to 1 and about 1 to 2 are preferred. More preferred molar ratios for the lanthanide and ligand are about 1 to 2. Using appropriate sensor compounds, the phosphorescence emission characteristics of the sensor-target compound reaction product can be varied dramatically.","In practice, the sensor compounds are preferably contained in an acivated matrix. Suitable matrices include, for example, organic polymer gels (e.g., agarose), sol-gels, or films, inert inorganic oxides, filter papers, and cellulose or other fiberous materials. Although the matrix is preferably porous (i.e., air samples can be readily drawn or passed through the matrix), impervious films or laminates may be used if coated with a layer containing the sensor compounds. Generally, near real time monitoring (i.e., approximately 5 to 15 minutes or less cycling times) can be achieved with the methods and devices of this invention. Sensitivity will depend on sampling rate, sampling time, and the detection limit of the detector used. Detection limits of less than about 500 spores (colony forming units) with near real time sampling are possible with this invention.","The present methods and devices are designed to detect spores of bacterial warfare agents such as and , using spore-specific phosphorescence. If desired, quantitative data can be obtained with the methods of the present invention. Generally the methods and devices of the present invention can be adapted to various types of samples, including, for example, gas (e.g., air), liquid, aerosols, and solid samples. As those of ordinary art will realize, the specific sensor devices illustrated in the various figures can be modified depending on the specific type of sample to be tested. Although the designs in  are generally designed for gas or aerosol sampling, they could easily be modified to accommodate other sampling procedures. For example, these devices could easily be modified to accept liquid samples; such devices would be especially suitable for automatically monitoring water from reservoirs and\/or water treatment plants.","Sensors devices containing the above-described sensor compounds are provided in  to . The sensor device illustrated in  to  is generally designed for placement in a fixed location such as, for example, around the perimeter of a secured area. The device is contained in an appropriate housing  with a sample entry port . Air flow through entry port  is illustrated by large arrows . Upon entering port , the sample will first contact a screen or filter  to remove larger particles or dust in the general vicinity of the sampler. Although not shown, the device may also have a top or chimney-type cap placed directly above the entry port  and raised above the outside of housing  to help prevent settling dust particles from entering the system; the air would pass around the cap to enter port . Indeed, a screen material (also not shown) could be placed between the top cap and the container to further reject relatively large particles (e.g., dirt clots thrown up by passing vehicles). Other external modifications (e.g., directional windvanes or size selective screens) can be made with regard to the inlet geometry to reduce or minimize background interference.","After passing the filter , the air flow is directed through the focusing opening or impactor jet  in order to contact sampling area or portion  of matrix  housed in matrix holding assembly  (presented in more detail in FIG. ). The matrix holding assembly  includes a porous matrix  containing the lanthanide sensor compound which rests upon, and is supported by, rotating plate  mounted on rotating shaft . The plate  has a plurality of openings  and a single sample area or opening (which can be in the form of screens to better support porous matrix) which align, when rotated into the proper position with focusing opening  (best seen in FIG. ). (The opening is the one directly under the focusing device ; as the porous matrix  is rotated, the new opening underneath the focusing opening  will become opening ). Air directed through focusing opening  impinges on the portion  of the porous matrix  directly underneath focusing opening  and passes through the porous matrix , through the associated opening , and then out exit  (as indicated by arrow ). If desired, the flow of air can be assisted using a vacuum pump or other air moving equipment (not shown) attached to exit port .","Channel or reservoir  of matrix holding assembly  can contain various solvents and\/or reagents to maintain the porous matrix  in the appropriate condition to obtain the desired high selectivity and sensitivity. Preferably, two reservoirs (not shown) are provided. Preferably, the first reservoir contains an acidic aqueous solution having a pH of about 2 to 4 and other conditioning reagents; and the second, a basic aqueous solution having a pH of about 10 to 11. The acid solution will generally be used or activated during sample collection as low pH facilitates the release of target compounds such as DPA and DAP from the bacterial spores. The basic solution will generally be used or activated after a predetermined sampling time in order to facilitate production of the phosphorescent product. The matrix  can be \u201cwetted\u201d with the reagents contained in reservoir or reservoirs using, for example, wicking action. Alternatively, such reagents could, for example, be contained in a separate containers or reservoirs (not shown) in housing  and then sprayed on the sampling area just prior to collection of the sample. Or, in a still further alternative, such reagents could be contained within the porous matrix  itself. In an even further alternative, the plate upon which the matrix  could itself be porous thereby allowing the necessary reagents to enter into the matrix directly. Spores in the air sample will react with the sensor compound contained in porous matrix  to form the phosphorescent reaction product.","The phosphorescent emission of the reaction product, if formed (i.e., if spores are contained in the air sample), can be detected using light source unit  and detector unit . Light source unit  provides the light energy to form the phosphorescent product from the target compound-chelated lanthanide reaction product and detector unit  provides the means to detect the light emission from the phosphorescent product (see FIG. ). As shown in more detail in , light source unit  is contained in housing  and contains a fixed focus lens , wavelength or bandpass filter , and light source . The light source unit  provides the exciting energy to generate the phosphorescent reaction product. One or more bandpass filters  can be used to filter out non-relevant wavelengths, and especially wavelengths at or near the emission frequencies expected to be given off by the phosphorescent reaction product. Light source  can be any light source or lamp that can fit within the device and which provides light at the required frequency (i.e., at the exciting frequency of the sensor compound). One such preferred light source is a deuterium lamp (FiberLight) from Heraeus Amersil Inc. (Duluth, Ga.) which can, when used with the appropriate filters , provide the appropriate excitation energy (i.e., about 270 to 280 nm) for the sensor-spore reaction product. The detector unit  is contained in housing  and contains a fixed-focused lens , wavelength or bandpass filter , and detector . One or more bandpass filters could be used to filter out non-relevant wavelengths (i.e., wavelengths not specific to the phosphorescent reaction products expected when spores of the biological warfare agents are present). Detector  is preferably one or more photocells or photomultipliers.","Moreover, the photocell could be coupled to a capacitor to require a minium voltage in a predetermined time period. Such a system would be expected to reduce the number of false positives and, therefore, minimize the problem associated with the \u201cboy who cried wolf too often\u201d syndrom. Human nature being as it is, the higher the rate of false positives, the greater risk of personnel delaying action when an alarm sounds or even ignoring the warning entirely; such delay in the case of an actual attack or release could be fatal. Thus, warning systems in which the number of false positives are significantly reduced without impairing the desired high sensitivity and selectivity are preferred In addition, a plurality of such detectors units  can be used where each such detector unit  is designed to detect a specific characteristic phosphorescence emission. Such a multi-detector system would preferably be used with several different sensors compounds (with each having its characteristic phosphorescence emission). Likewise, a series of detector\/matrix combinations could be combined to obtain even more detailed information; in same cases, this combination may be preferred since each separate system could be individually optimized for maximum sensitivity and\/or selectivity.","As suggested in , the light unit  and detector unit  can be located at different locations within the housing . Although not shown, one or both of the light unit  or detector unit  could incorporate optical fibers, thus allowing them to be located at locations within the housing  which are not in direct sight lines with sampling portion  of matrix . Such an optical fiber could be used to provide the required exciting light energy from the light unit  to the sensor compound within area  on the porous matrix . Likewise, such an optical fiber could be used to collect the light emission from the phosphorescent product in the same area  and provide it to the detector unit . Using such optical fibers, the light unit  and\/or detector unit  could be located in portions of housing  remote from porous matrix . Such optical fibers could easily be focused on the area  of the porous matrix  and could allow a higher density of sampling sites on porous matrix . As noted, the use of such optical fibers would also reduce \u201ccrowding\u201d around the area in which the same impinges on area  of the porous matrix. Moreover, the use of such optical fibers would allow construction of warning devices having two or more matrixes containing different lanthanide sensor compounds to provide even greater warning capabilities.","If spores are detected, an appropriate warning or signal should be generated. Such signaling or warning devices (not shown) are well known in the art. For example, the detector  could be used to activate a visual and\/or auditory warning. The detector  could also be used to activate a radio signal to activate a remote warning signal or device. Such a radio activation system could be used to good effect, for example, for remote warning systems. Indeed, such remote sensors mounted around the perimeter of an area could provide early warning of an attack using (or accidental release of) biological warfare agents; if the various sensors are equipped with detectors operating at different frequencies, directional information regarding the attack or release could also be generated.","After a sampling cycle is complete, the matrix holding assembly  can be rotated and indexed to a new position to expose a new (i.e., fresh or unexposed) area of the matrix  to the flow of air. Although only eight sampling areas or positions  are shown in , those skilled in the art will realize that many more such sampling sites (as well as different shaped sampling sites) could be used. If desired, a protective cover (not shown) could be used to cover and\/or protect portions of the matrix  that are not currently being used for detection (i.e., all areas of matrix  except the portion  under focusing device ). Such a protective, non-rotating cover could be fitted over assembly  such that only the sampling area is exposed to the air sample. Such a protective cover must allow, of course, monitoring of the sampling area using detector . Once all appropriate areas of the matrix  have been used, the matrix can be removed and a new matrix inserted using access door . Generally, in high risk situations, the specific sampling areas  of matrix  would only be used once before replacement. In other, lower risk cases, the specific sampling areas  may be used more than once (i.e., more than one complete rotation of assemble ). Replacement protocols could be based on number of exposures of the sample areas or on time of use. Of course, once the matrix  has been exposed to bacterial spores (i.e., such spores have been detected), the matrix  should be replaced as soon as conditions warrant.","As detailed above, a porous matrix  mounted in the matrix holding assembly  can be used. Of course, other configurations or designs may be used. For example, the matrix  could be a non-porous plastic film with the appropriate reagents, including the lanthanide sensor compounds, coated thereon. In such an embodiment, the air stream or flow  would be directed to an appropriate area of the film to contact the reagents; the air flow would then pass around assembly  and then through exit . In such a system, the openings  and would not be needed in the matrix holding assembly .","Another embodiment of the sensor device of this invention is shown in FIG. . This embodiment could be used by an individual in the field. The sensor housing  has a clip or other fastener  for attachment to, for example, a shirt pocket, other clothing, or equipment. The porous matrix  containing the lanthanide sensor compounds is exposed to the air (an appropriate porous film, not shown, can be mounted over the matrix  for protection if desired). Using appropriate detectors (similar to those used in sensor  above), a warning device  can be activated if spores are detected. Warning device  can be, for example, a light, buzzer, or the like. Of course, sensors designed for combat type situations would preferably have a warning device that would not be observable by opposing forces; in such cases, a vibrating warning signal or an ear plug device could be used. In addition, such a personal warning device could also contain a radio signal, beacon, or other such device to pass the warning onto others, thus, providing them even earlier warning (i.e., before their personal devices are even exposed to the bacterial spores).","Preferably, the sensor is equipped with at least dual-selectivity and sensitivity settings . By providing at least two different lanthanide sensor compounds which, when exposed to the appropriate spores, form different phosphorescence reaction products emitting at different frequencies, the number of false positives (and, again, the \u201cboy who cried wolf too often\u201d syndrom) can be substantially reduced. During normal operational activities (i.e., where the risk of exposure is low), the device could be set to require at least two positive signals (i.e., from each of at least two different emission frequencies) to activate the alarm. However, in circumstances where the risk of exposure is high (e.g., where opposing forces have used biological warfare agents in the past and\/or where intelligence indicates that their use is a real possibility), the device could be set to activate the alarm when any one positive signal is detected. In former case, the incident of false positives will be reduced; in the later case, sensitivity would be maximized. Although not shown, such a dual activation system could be implemented in the sensors illustrated in FIG. . In the case of such remote sensors, the switch to high sensitivity could be implemented from an appropriate radio or other signal from command posts or headquarters when conditions warrant or automatically when any one sensor (operating at the lower sensitivity) detects exposure to such biological warfare agents.","The sensor devices of the present invention can be powered by any conventional energy source. For example, the present sensor can use conventional alternating current, when available, with, as appropriate, step-down transformers, or self contained batteries, photovoltaic systems, and the like as well as combinations thereof. For example, a sensor directly wired or a sensor equipped with a photovoltaic system could also, and in many cases preferably would, be equipped with a back-up battery system. The electronic systems, including timing circuits, transmitters, and the like used to implement the present sensors are generally commercially available and well known to those in the art and, thus, do not need to be describe here."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00012","num":"00012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00013","num":"00013"},"figref":"FIG. 2","i":["Bacillus anthracis ","Clostridium botulinum. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00014","num":"00014"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00015","num":"00015"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00016","num":"00016"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":["Bacillus anthracis ","Clostridium botulinum "]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
