---
title: Mobile agent system and method for controlling a mobile agent system
abstract: The present invention relates to a mobile agent system () for a communication unit () of a communication system, with at least one mobile agent () comprising an allocated agent policy (), in which migration parameters of the respective mobile agent () are defined, migration control means () for controlling the migration behavior of a mobile agent () in the communication system on the basis of a current migration policy of the mobile agent () and current parameters of the communication system. The present invention further relates to a method for controlling such a mobile agent system () and allows a flexible way of controlling the migration behavior of mobile agents () depending on system parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06915129&OS=06915129&RS=06915129
owner: Sony International (Europe) GmbH
number: 06915129
owner_city: Cologne
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20000128
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"p":["The present invention relates to a mobile agent system for a communication unit of a communication system. The present invention further relates to a method for controlling a mobile agent system in a communication unit of a communication system. Particularly, the communication system can be a wireless telecommunication system and\/or a mobile computing system.","Mobile communication, such as wireless telecommunication or mobile computing, is concerned with providing networked services over wireless networks to mobile users. Mobile agents are a computing paradigm enabling the transfer of an executing piece of code or software from one node of the computer\/communication network to another node. In the U.S. Pat. No. 5,603,031, a basic approach to mobile agents is described. The basic operation of mobile agent systems is schematically shown in FIG. . An agent system  which is implemented in a node of a communication system, e. g. a mobile station or a base station of a wireless telecommunication system or a notebook of a mobile computing system, offers mobile agents  an execution environment, which is called a place . Mobile agents  are pieces of executing software, which can migrate from one agent system  to another agent system . On all places  of the different agent systems , the mobile agents  can access local services offered by a so-called system agent , which is a local piece of executing software.","In the current state of the art mobile agents are migrating between computing nodes of the internet. Because the communication costs in the internet are very low and the available bandwidth is sufficient, the migration step does not cause any problems and as many migration steps as necessary can be performed without significant limitation. However, the communication costs over wireless communication links are high and the available bandwidth is low. The future communication systems will consist of combinations of wireless telecommunication, mobile computing and so on, so that the available quality of service will vary on a large scale as users will move back and forth between high-speed wireless networks and costly low-speed cellular networks.","The object of the present invention is therefore to provide a mobile agent system for a communication unit of a communication system and a method for controlling a mobile agent system in a communication unit of a communication system, which enable to control the migration of mobile agents in an effective and flexible way.","This object is solved by a mobile agent system for a communication unit of a communication system, with at least one mobile agent comprising an allocated agent policy, in which migration parameters of the respective mobile agent are defined, and migration control means for controlling the migration behavior of a mobile agent in the communication system on the basis of a current migration policy of the mobile agent and current parameters of the communication system.","The above object is further solved by a method for controlling a mobile agent system in a communication unit of a communication system, whereby the mobile agent system includes at least one mobile agent comprising an allocated agent policy, in which migration parameters of the respective mobile agent are defined, and the migration behavior of a mobile agent in the communication system is controlled on the basis of a current migration policy of the mobile agent and current parameters of the communication system.","The communication unit might e. g. be a base station or a mobile station of a wireless telecommunication system, a network server or a personal computer of a computing. system. The current parameters of the communication system are e. g. the quality of service information of the current network. The mobile agent migration is controlled so that the mobile agents only migrate if the available current parameters of the communication system match the requirements of the current migration policy of the mobile agent wishing to migrate. The present invention enables a control of the mobile agent migration, which is flexible and adaptable to different requirements.","Advantageously, the mobile agent system according to the present invention further comprises policy managing means for storing a system policy, in which migration behavior parameters for mobile agents of the mobile agent system are defined and policy control means for selecting the current migration policy of a mobile agent on the basis of the allocated agent policy of the mobile agent and the system policy. The system policy can be stored in a system policy data base. Advantageously, the data base comprises a default system policy, in which default migration behavior parameters for all agents in the mobile agent system are defined, and one or more agent type specific policies, whereby the system policy is selected from the default system policy and the corresponding agent type specific policies. Further, the agent policy allocated to a mobile agent can be selected from a default agent policy and a per-migration policy.","Advantageously, the policy control means selects the current migration policy of a mobile agent depending on the type of the provided policies. The provided policies are thereby the allocated agent policy, the system policy and\/or the corresponding agent type specific policy. Alternatively, the policy control means selects the current migration policy of a mobile agent depending on additional priority parameters of the provided policies. In an further alternative, the policy control means selects the current migration policy of a mobile agent depending on weighted parameters of the provided policies. Further, a combination of the three above-described ways of selecting the current migration policy can be used.","The mobile agent system according to the present invention can further comprise user input means for inputting a migration policy which is taken as the current migration policy for a mobile agent, overwriting the current migration policy determined by the policy control means. After performing a migration on the basis of the user defined policy, said policy control means always returns to a normal mode for the next migration policy to be selected. Thus, in case that a migration policy is input, this input migration policy overrules the allocated policy, the system policy and\/or the agent type specific policy. Alternatively or in combination thereto, the user input means can be provided for inputting a migration mode for the mobile agent system, whereby said input migration mode defines a particular migration policy which is kept by said policy control means until a new migration mode is input.","The mobile agent system according to the present invention can further comprise user operation means for changing the allocated agent policy of a mobile agent, the system policy and\/or an agent type specific policy. Further, an application programming interface connected to the migration control means retrieves the communication system parameters, as e. g. the quality of service information.","The migration control means advantageously decides on the basis of a comparison of the current migration policy of a mobile agent and the current parameters of the communication system, if the migration of the mobile agent is allowed, suspended or rejected.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["1","4","3","4","4","1","3","1","1","4","3","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["5","6","7","7","6","5","6","1","5","6","7"]},"In the migration process, e. g. if a mobile agent  is migrating from a mobile device  to a base station , the mobile agent is serialized on the respective place , and the state and the code of the mobile agent  are transferred to the base station . There the mobile agent  is recreated from the state and the code. Thereafter, the execution of the mobile agent  can continue.","The migration process is thereby controlled on the basis of a current migration policy of a mobile agent . The current migration policy thereby defines the way the agent system  checks the current network parameters and determines the migration behavior of a mobile agent . In , the way of defining and computing a current migration policy of a mobile agent  is shown. The behavior of a migrating mobile agent  is influenced by different principals. The system administrator defines the system policy , which can be a default system policy  or an agent type policy . The default system policy  comprises the default behavior parameters for all mobile agents  of the agent system . In case that the mobile agents  used in an agent system  can be classified into different agent types, an agent type policy  can be defined, in which different type specific policies for the different specific types of mobile agents are defined. In this case, the agent type policy  normally overrules the default system policy . With the agent type policies, different system behaviors can be associated. For example, most agent systems  only differentiate between mobile and stationary agents. Mobile agents are allowed to roam in the network and are tightly controlled. Stationary agents are supplied by the agent system and might access local system resources. Provision of agent type specific policies  allows classifying a mobile agent  not only according to its basic characteristics, which are defined in the default system policy , but also according to other properties and enables thus a more flexible and adaptable control of the migration process of a mobile agent .","During the policy determination, the agent system computes the system policy  valid for the mobile agent  who wants to migrate on the basis of the default system policy  and the agent type policy .","Every mobile agent  has an allocated agent policy , which is either a default agent policy  or a Per-Migration policy . The Per-Migration policy  is only valid for the next migration step. A migrating mobile agent  always carries its allocated agent policy . The agent policy  defines parameters of the appropriate mobile agent properties in the agent system . Usually, the Per-Migration policy  overrules the default agent policy  in the next migration step. The conflict resolution required to decide, which of the competing system policy  and agent policy  are selected to become the current migration policy can be solved in different ways, which are explained below.","Further, the current user can input user commands  to influence the current migration policy. Either the policy resulting from the conflict resolution between the system policy  and the agent policy  or the user command determines the migration behavior , which is defined by the current migration policy. Usually, a user command defining the current migration policy directly overrules the policy emerging from the conflict resolution between the system policy  and the agent policy .","In , a system policy data base is shown, which is defined by an system administrator and stored in the agent system. The system policy data base comprises a default system policy  and agent type policies , from which the system policy  is chosen. In , an agent system  with an agent place  is shown. A mobile agent  in the place  has its allocated agent policy  stored in the agent properties. The parameters describing the properties of the respective mobile agent  are e. g. its owner, its resource constraints etc. The properties can thereby be stored in an agent property data base of the agent system . One of the properties stored in the agent property data base can be the agent policy .","In case that the mobile agent  migrates to another agent system , it takes its agent properties along to the other agent system. The agent policy  being a part of the agent properties can be changed by a set operation performed e. g. by an operator. A set operation is performed by a mobile agent  during execution to retrieve parameters needed for processing.","A policy is described through its type, its name and its set of parameters (<policySpec>) defining the intended behavior of the system. The <policySpec> defines a set of policy parameters, that will be checked when the migration of the mobile agent  shall actually be performed.","<policy> ::=\u201cPOLICY\u201d<policyType>\u201c:\u201d<policyName>\u201c(\u201c<policySpec>\u201d)\u201d.","<policyType> ::=STRING.","<policyName>::=STRING.","<policySpec>::=\u201c(\u201c<parameterName><parameterValue>\u201d)\u201d.","<parameterName> ::=STRING.","<parameterValue> ::=STRING.","The parameters of the policies are key\/value pairs. The parameters can e. g. be divided into several classes, namely threshold parameters, action parameters and preference parameters. The threshold parameters define limits on the current parameters of the communication system, e. g. network quality of service parameters, which the communication system must meet to allow a migration of a mobile agent . The action parameters define parameters for certain actions which the agent system  might perform to enforce this particular policy, e. g. action parameters define the timeout values if the mobile agent  has to wait for migration, allow the agent system  to dial, etc. The preference parameters define preferences of the user in certain situations, e. g. when to decide between different options. The following table gives an example of possible policy parameters:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Name of Parameter","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["MinNetworkSpeed","Minimum Speed of the Network required to allow"]},{"entry":[{},"migration."]},{"entry":["MaxTransferTime","Maximum Time for Transferring the Agent"]},{"entry":["MaxCostPerMin","Maximum Cost of the Network usage per minute"]},{"entry":[{},"(in the case of connection oriented networks)"]},{"entry":["MaxCostPerByte","Maximum Cost per Byte"]},{"entry":[{},"(in the case of packet oriented networks)"]},{"entry":["SuspendTimeout","Timeout value in case the agent will be suspended"]},{"entry":["doNotSuspend","If the migration policy does not allow the agent"]},{"entry":[{},"to migrate, the agent will not be suspended,"]},{"entry":[{},"but the attempt will be rejected."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In , the detailed configuration of an agent system  according to the present invention is shown. The agent system  is implemented in a node of a communication system and comprises a place , which is an execution environment for mobile agents . The agent system  comprises a migration control means  connected to a migration means  and a suspend means . The migration control means  is further connected to a policy control means  and to an application programming interface . The policy control means  is connected to a policy managing means . The agent policy  of a mobile agent  of the agent system I is e. g. stored together with other agent properties in the policy control means . In the policy managing means , the system policy data base for the system policy  is stored. The system policy.  in the policy managing means  can be changed by a user through a user operation means  connected to the policy managing means .","The migration control means  controls the migration behavior of a mobile agent  on the basis of a current migration policy of the mobile agent  and current parameters of the communication system retrieved over the application programming interface . Thereby, the current migration policy of the mobile agent  is determined on the basis of the agent policy  of the mobile agent  and the system policy  stored in the policy managing means . The policy control means  thereby performs a conflict processing to select a respective system policy  or agent policy  as the current migration policy. This selected current migration policy can be overruled by a direct input from a user over the user input means  connected to the policy control means . Over the user input means , either a migration policy which is taken as the current migration policy for the mobile agent  or a migration mode for the mobile agent system  can be input. In case that a migration policy as the current migration policy is input through the user input means , the policy control means  always returns to a normal mode for the next migration policy to be selected, whereas, in case that a migration mode is input, the migration mode is kept by said policy control means  until a new migration mode is determined.","The selected current migration policy is supplied from the policy control means  to the migration control means , which executes the resulting migration behavior by comparing the respective parameters of the resulting current migration policy with the current parameters of the communication system to determine, if a mobile agent  may migrate or not. If the mobile agent  is allowed to migrate, the migration means  transfers the mobile agent  to another agent system . If the mobile agent  is not or not yet allowed to migrate, the suspend means  suspends the migration. In case that the migration control means  rejects the migration attempt, the mobile agent  is restarted and the failure is signaled to the mobile agent . In case that the mobile agent  is allowed to migrate, the migration means  might dial into the communication system and set up a connection for the transmission of the mobile agent , e. g. from a mobile device  to a base station  as shown in FIG. .","In the following, different mechanisms for the conflict resolution upon the selection of a current policy from the system policy  or the agent policy  in the policy control means  is described. Since the different policies are defined by several entities, e. g. a current user, a system administrator or the mobile agent  itself, a conflict resolution scheme is required if two policies are conflicting. This conflict resolution is performed in the policy control means , which takes the conflicting policies, e. g. the system policy  from the policy managing means  and the agent policy  from the mobile agent , and determines the resulting policy. For the conflict resolution, different schemes are possible. Firstly, the policy control means  can select the current migration policy depending on the type of the provided policies. In this so-called source emphasis strategy, the policy control means  will simply emphasize a specific source of the policy, e. g. the agent policy  or the system policy . Secondly, the policy control means  may select the current migration policy depending on additional priority parameters of the provided policies. In this so-called priority strategy, the different policies comprise additional priority parameters defining the respective priority of the policy. The policy control means  determines the current policy according to the defined priorities. Thirdly, the policy control means  can select the current migration policy depending on weighting parameters of the provided policies. In this case, all possible settings of the policies are weighted. The policy control means  selects the policy with the highest weight. The weighting function can be computed such that e. g. more cost-effective strategies gain higher weights. Further, the policy control means  can combine several policies by combining the policy parameters of the conflicting policies. In this case, a conflict resolution must be performed for each individual parameter.","By means of the user input means  connected to the policy control means , a current user might overrule the current policy selected by the policy control means  by defining the particular actions or switching to a specific modus. Actions defer from setting a modus in the sense that an action is performed and the agent system returns to the normal modus after the action, namely the migration of a particular mobile agent , is terminated. If a user selects a specific modus, the modus will remain selected until the user switches to another modus. Actions will always terminate a special modus and thereafter, the policy control means  returns to the normal modus.","Possible actions are e. g. an allow migration action, a stop migration action or an enforce migration action. At an allow migration action, all waiting mobile agents  are migrated to the corresponding remote nodes. Further agent migration attempts will be handled using the current migration policy determined by the policy control means . At a stop migration action, all migrations are stopped and no other migrations are performed during a predetermined time period. At an enforce migration action, all mobile agents  are forced to leave the current agent system , which will be enforced by the policy control means  and the migration control means .","Possible modus settings are e. g. a normal modus, a NoMigration modus, an AllowMigration modus, an AllowDialIn modus or an UseUnusedResources modus. The normal modus is the modus in which the agent system  returns, when a normal migration policy is enforced. In the NoMigration modus, ongoing migrations are stopped and no further: migrations are attempted. This state continues until the user makes a corresponding input to return to the normal modus. In the AllowMigration modus, a mobile agent  might migrate anytime if the communication unit is connected to the communication system. In the AllowDialIn modus, a mobile agent  is allowed to migrate anytime. The migrate command will result in a dial-in operation if required. In the UseUnusedResources modus, a mobile agent  might migrate, if unused bandwidth is available.","As example, a mobile agent  is assumed, which has an allocated default system policy  comprising the parameters of a minimum network speed of 9,6 Kbit, maximum costs per minute of 1,-DM and suspension of timeout of 30 minutes. In this case, the migration control means  will check if the network speed of the current available network is equal or higher than 9,6 Kbit (which is enough for GSM), and if the costs per minute are not higher than 1,-DM per minute (which is usually the case after 6 p.m.). If one or both of the requirements cannot be achieved, the agent will be suspended. During this time, the conditions will be reevaluated over the application program interface  regularly until the agent is allowed to migrate. The suspension of time-out parameter defines that the mobile agent  will only be suspended for 30 minutes. After that period the migration attempt is rejected.","The present invention therefore provides a mobile agent system, which can adapt the migration operation to the current parameters of the communication system, thus saving expensive communication costs particularly over wireless networks. Further, the proposed policy mechanism allows a flexible specification of the migration behavior. The proposed policy determination and conflict resolution mechanism allow a definition and enforcement of policies by the system administrator and the mobile agent itself. Further, the proposed overruling mechanism allows a current user of the communication unit to overrule the current migration policy settings, thus giving him full control over the behavior of the agent system."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"p":["The present invention is described in the following by means of a preferred embodiment relating to the enclosed drawings, in which",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
