---
title: Data delivery in set-top box
abstract: A method and apparatus for managing ATM formatted MPEG SI data in a television set-top box. A virtual channel indicator (VCI) is used to associate a segment of SI data with a virtual channel. An ATM processor receives a stream of ATM packets containing SI data from an out-of-band tuner. The ATM packets include the VCI in a header thereof. The ATM processor stores the SI data in a buffer memory associated with the VCI for retrieval by the ATM processor at the request of the STB system processor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07023858&OS=07023858&RS=07023858
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 07023858
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010316
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED DOCUMENTS","COPYRIGHT NOTICE","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is related to and claims priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7 119(e) or 35 U.S.C. \u00a7 120 of Provisional Patent Application 60\/197,848, filed Apr. 14, 2000, and entitled \u201cUser Interface for a Set-Top Box\u201d, Provisional Patent Application 60\/197,308, filed Apr. 14, 2000, and entitled \u201cMethod for VOD\u201d, Provisional Patent Application 60\/197,233, filed Apr. 14, 2000, and entitled \u201cCable Modem Set Top Box\u201d, Provisional Patent Application 60\/197,234, filed Apr. 14, 2000, and entitled \u201cWeb Based EPG Support\u201d, and Provisional Patent Application 60\/197,310, filed Apr. 14, 2000, and entitled \u201cSupport for tuning while viewing a Web Based EPG\u201d, and is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/775,692 filed Feb. 2, 2001 entitled \u201cWeb Browser Plug in for TV\u201d to Kimble et al. which are each hereby incorporated by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/473,625, filed Dec. 29, 1999, entitled \u201cImproved Internet Set-Top Box Having and In-Band Tuner and Cable Modem\u201d is also hereby incorporated herein by reference.","A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","This invention relates generally to the field of television and television set-top boxes. More particularly, this invention relates to a method and apparatus for handling MPEG (Moving Pictures Expert Group) and other SI (Service Information) data formatted in ATM packets.","MPEG SI data are conventionally time multiplexed into an MPEG transport stream for use in the decoding process. The SI data are conventionally demultiplexed from the transport stream and filtered for use by a system processor as needed. This is generally accomplished by use of the Packet Identifier (PID) in the transport stream packet with further filtering done using a Table ID, section number, version number, etc. once it has been reformatted as MPEG section data. However, in certain applications, the SI data may not be time multiplexed with the video data. In such cases, there should be some mechanism to ultimately get the SI data to a system processor in an efficient manner that neither overloads the system processor nor places undue performance requirements on the system processor.","Further information regarding SI data and the conventional demultiplexing thereof can be found in DVB-SI Specification EN300 468, MPEG System Specification ISO\/IEC 13818-01 which are hereby incorporated by reference.","The present invention relates generally to handling MPEG SI data formatted in ATM packets. Objects, advantages and features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of the invention.","In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention a method and apparatus for managing ATM formatted MPEG or other SI data in a television set-top box is provided. A virtual channel indicator (VCI) is used to associate a segment of SI data with a virtual channel. An ATM processor receives a stream of ATM packets containing SI data from an out-of-band tuner. The ATM packets include the VCI in a header thereof. The ATM processor stores the SI data in a buffer memory associated with the VCI for retrieval by the ATM processor at the request of the STB system processor.","A method of managing MPEG (Moving Pictures Expert Group) SI (Service Information) data according to another exemplary embodiment includes receiving an Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) packet containing SI data, the ATM packet having a virtual channel indicator (VCI) in a header thereof associating the SI data in the packet with a virtual channel; storing the SI information in a memory associated with the VCI; and retrieving the SI information from the memory upon request of a system processor.","A television or television set-top box consistent with an embodiment of the invention has a receiver receiving a video data stream including MPEG (Moving Pictures Expert Group) video data and converting the MPEG video data to a video signal. An ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode) interface, receives a stream of ATM packets frequency multiplexed with the video data stream, the ATM packets carrying MPEG or other SI (Service Information) data and having a header carrying a virtual channel indicator (VCI), the VCI associating the SI data with a virtual channel. The ATM interface includes an ATM processor and a plurality of buffer memories, one buffer memory for each of a plurality of virtual channels. Upon receipt of an ATM packet, the ATM processor reads the ATM packet's VCI and stores SI information associated with that VCI in the buffer memory for the virtual channel indicated by the VCI.","In another embodiment consistent with the present invention, a method of supplying MPEG (Moving Pictures Expert Group) or other SI (Service Information) data over a cable network includes associating an SI data segment with a virtual channel identifier (VCI); packaging the SI data segment in a data area of an ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode) packet; placing the VCI in a header of the ATM packet; and transmitting the packet over the cable network.","The above summaries are intended to illustrate exemplary embodiments of the invention, which will be best understood in conjunction with the detailed description to follow, and are not intended to limit the scope of the appended claims.","While this invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms, there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail specific embodiments, with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an example of the principles of the invention and not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments shown and described. In the description below, like reference numerals are used to describe the same, similar or corresponding parts in the several views of the drawings.","Referring to , a block diagram for an exemplary interactive cable or satellite television (TV) system  is shown. The system  includes, at a head end of the service provider , a media server  for providing, on demand, movies and other programming obtained from a media database . The media server  might also provide additional content such as interviews with the actors, games, advertisements, available merchandise, associated Web pages, interactive games and other related content. The system  also includes an electronic programming guide (EPG) server  and a program listing database  for generating an EPG. Set-top box  can generally provide for bidirectional communication over a transmission medium  in the case of a cable STB . In other embodiments, bidirectional communication can be effected using asymmetrical communication techniques possibly using dual communication media\u2014one for the uplink and one for the downlink. In any event, the STB  can have its own Universal Resource Locator (URL) or IP address or other unique identifier assigned thereto to provide for addressability by the head end and users of the Internet.","The media server  and EPG server  are operatively coupled by transmission medium  to a set-top box (STB) . The transmission medium  may include, for example, a conventional coaxial cable network, a fiber optic cable network, telephone system, twisted pair, a satellite communication system, a radio frequency (RF) system, a microwave system, other wireless systems, a combination of wired and wireless systems or any of a variety of known electronic transmission mediums. In the case of a cable television network, transmission medium  is commonly realized at the subscriber's premises as a coaxial cable that is connected to a suitable cable connector at the rear panel of the STB . In the case of a Direct Satellite System (DSS), the STB  is often referred to as an Integrated Receiver Decoder (IRD). In the case of a DSS system, the transmission medium is a satellite transmission at an appropriate microwave band. Such transmissions are typically received by a satellite dish antenna with an integral Low Noise Block (LNB) that serves as a down-converter to convert the signal to a lower frequency for processing by the STB .","The exemplary system  further includes a TV , such as a digital television, having a display  for displaying programming, an EPG, etc. The STB  may be coupled to the TV  and various other audio\/visual devices  (such as audio systems, Personal Video Recorders (PVRs), Video Tape Recorders (VTRs), Video Cassette Recorders (VCRs) and the like), storage devices (e.g., hard disc drives) and Internet Appliances  (such as email devices, home appliances, storage devices, network devices, and other Internet Enabled Appliances) by an appropriate interface , which can be any suitable analog or digital interface. In one embodiment, interface  conforms to an interface standard such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1394 standard, but could also be wholly or partially supported by a DVI interface (Digital Visual Interface-Digital Display Working Group, www.ddwg.org) or other suitable interface.","The STB  may include a central processing unit (CPU) such as a microprocessor and memory such as Random Access Memory (RAM), Read Only Memory (ROM), flash memory, mass storage such as a hard disc drive, floppy disc drive, optical disc drive or may accommodate other electronic storage media, etc. Such memory and storage media is suitable for storing data as well as instructions for programmed processes for execution on the CPU, as will be discussed later. Information and programs stored on the electronic storage media or memory may also be transported over any suitable transmission medium such as that illustrated as . STB  may include circuitry suitable for audio decoding and processing, the decoding of video data compressed in accordance with a compression standard such as the Motion Pictures Experts Group (MPEG) standard and other processing to form a controller or central hub. Alternatively, components of the STB  may be incorporated into the TV  itself, thus eliminating the STB . Further, a computer having a tuner device and modem may be equivalently substituted for the TV  and STB .","By way of example, the STB  may be coupled to devices such as a personal computer, video cassette recorder, camcorder, digital camera, personal digital assistant and other audio\/visual or Internet related devices. In addition, a data transport architecture, such as that set forth by an industry group which includes Sony Corporation and known as the Home Audio-Video Interoperability (HAVi) architecture may be utilized to enable interoperability among devices on a network regardless of the manufacturer of the device. This forms a home network system wherein electronic devices and Internet appliances are compatible with each other. The STB  runs an operating system suitable for a home network system such as Sony Corporation's Aperios\u2122 real time operating system. Other operating systems could also be used.","The STB  includes an infrared (IR) receiver  for receiving IR signals from an input device such as remote control . Alternatively, it is noted that many other control communication methods may be utilized besides IR, such as wired or wireless radio frequency, etc. In addition, it can be readily appreciated that the input device  may be any device suitable for controlling the STB  such as a remote control, personal digital assistant, laptop computer, keyboard or computer mouse. In addition, an input device in the form of a control panel located on the TV  or the STB  can be provided.","The STB  may also be coupled to an independent service provider (ISP) host  by a suitable connection including dial-up connections, DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) or the same transmission medium  described above (e.g., using a cable modem) to, thus, provide access to services and content from the ISP and the Internet. The ISP host  provides various content to the user that is obtained from a content database . STB  may also be used as an Internet access device to obtain information and content from remote servers such as remote server  via the Internet  using host  operating as an Internet portal, for example. In certain satellite STB environments, the data can be downloaded at very high speed from a satellite link, with asymmetrical upload speed from the set-top box provided via a dial-up or DSL connection.","While the arrangement illustrated in  shows a plurality of servers and databases depicted as independent devices, any one or more of the servers can operate as server software residing on a single computer. Moreover, although not explicitly illustrated, the servers may operate in a coordinated manner under centralized or distributed control to provide multiple services as a Multiple Service Operator (MSO) in a known manner. Additionally, the services provided by the servers shown in  may actually reside in other locations, but from the perspective of the user of STB , the service provider  serves as a portal to the services shown. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the illustration of  represents a simplified depiction of a cable system configuration shown simply as service provider . The actual configuration of the service provider's equipment is more likely to follow a configuration defined by the CableLabs OpenCable\u2122 specification. The simplified illustration shown is intended to simplify the discussion of the service provider 's operation without unnecessarily burdening the discussion with architectural details that will be evident to those skilled in the art. Those details can be found in the publicly available CableLabs OpenCable\u2122 specification or in the text \u201cOpenCable Architecture (Fundamentals)\u201d by Michael Adams, Cisco Press, November 1999.","Referring now to , a typical system configuration for a digital set-top box  is illustrated. In this exemplary set-top box, the transmission medium , such as a coaxial cable, is coupled by a suitable interface through a diplexer  to an in-band tuner . Tuner  may, for example, include a broadcast in-band tuner for receiving video content. An out-of-band (OOB) tuner  is provided for receiving data transmissions, including ATM formatted SI data. A return path through diplexer  provides an OOB return path for outbound data (destined for example for the head end). A separate tuner (not shown) may be provided to receive conventional RF broadcast television channels. Modulated information formatted, for example, as MPEG-2 information is then demodulated at a demodulator . The demodulated information at the output of demodulator  is provided to a demultiplexer and descrambler circuit  where the information is separated into discrete channels of programming. The programming is divided into packets, each packet bearing an identifier called a Packet ID (PID) that identifies the packet as containing a particular type of data (e.g., audio, video, data). The demodulator and descrambler circuit  also decrypts encrypted information in accordance with a decryption algorithm to prevent unauthorized access to programming content, for example.","Audio packets from the demultiplexer  (those identified with an audio PID) are decrypted and forwarded to an audio decoder  where they may be converted to analog audio to drive a speaker system (e.g., stereo or home theater multiple channel audio systems) or other audio system  (e.g., stereo or home theater multiple channel amplifier and speaker systems) or may simply provide decoded audio out at . Video packets from the demultiplexer  (those identified with a video PID) are decrypted and forwarded to a video decoder . In a similar manner, data packets from the demultiplexer  (those identified with a data PID) are decrypted and forwarded to a data decoder .","Decoded data packets from data decoder  are sent to the set-top box's computer system via the system bus . A central processing unit (CPU)  can thus access the decoded data from data decoder  via the system bus . Video data decoded by video decoder  is passed to a graphics processor , which is a computer optimized to processes graphics information rapidly. Graphics processor  is particularly useful in processing graphics intensive data associated with Internet browsing, gaming and multimedia applications such as those associated with MHEG (Multimedia and Hypermedia information coding Experts Group) set-top box applications. It should be noted, however, that the function of graphics processor  may be unnecessary in some set-top box designs having lower capabilities, and the function of the graphics processor  may be handled by the CPU  in some applications where the decoded video is passed directly from the demultiplexer  to a video encoder. Graphics processor  is also coupled to the system bus  and operates under the control of CPU .","Many set-top boxes such as STB  may incorporate a smart card reader  for communicating with a so called \u201csmart card,\u201d often serving as a Conditional Access Module (CAM). The CAM typically includes a central processor unit (CPU) of its own along with associated RAM and ROM memory. Smart card reader  is used to couple the system bus of STB  to the smart card serving as a CAM (not shown). Such smart card based CAMs are conventionally utilized for authentication of the user and authentication of transactions carried out by the user as well as authorization of services and storage of authorized cryptography keys. For example, the CAM can be used to provide the key for decoding incoming cryptographic data for content that the CAM determines the user is authorized to receive.","STB  can operate in a bidirectional communication mode so that data and other information can be transmitted not only from the system's head end to the end user, or from a service provider to the end user of the STB , but also, from the end user upstream using an out-of-band channel. In one embodiment, such data passes through the system bus  to a modulator  through the diplexer  and out through the transmission medium . This capability is used to provide a mechanism for the STB  and\/or its user to send information to the head end (e.g., service requests or changes, registration information, etc.) as well as to provide fast outbound communication with the Internet or other services provided at the head end to the end user.","Set-top box  may include any of a plurality of I\/O (Input\/Output) interfaces represented by I\/O interfaces  that permit interconnection of I\/O devices to the set-top box . By way of example, and not limitation, a serial RS-232 port  can be provided to enable interconnection to any suitable serial device supported by the STB 's internal software. Similarly, communication with appropriately compatible devices can be provided via an Ethernet port , a USB (Universal Serial Bus) port , an IEEE 1394 (so-called firewire\u2122 or i-link\u2122) or IEEE 1394 wide port , S-video port  or infrared port . Such interfaces can be utilized to interconnect the STB  with any of a variety of accessory devices such as storage devices, audio\/visual devices , gaming devices (not shown), Internet Appliances , etc.","I\/O interfaces  can include a modem (be it dial-up, cable, DSL or other technology modem) having a modem port  to facilitate high speed or alternative access to the Internet or other data communication functions. In one preferred embodiment, modem port  is that of a DOCSIS (Data Over Cable System Interface Specification) cable modem to facilitate high speed network access over a cable system, and port  is appropriately coupled to the transmission medium  embodied as a coaxial cable. Thus, the STB  can carry out bidirectional communication via the DOCSIS cable modem with the STB  being identified by a unique IP address. The DOCSIS specification is publically available.","A PS\/2 or other keyboard\/mouse\/joystick interface such as  can be provided to permit ease of data entry to the STB . Such inputs provide the user with the ability to easily enter data and\/or navigate using pointing devices. Pointing devices such as a mouse or joystick may be used in gaming applications.","Of course, STB  also may incorporate basic video outputs  that can be used for direct connection to a television set such as  instead of (or in addition to) an IEEE 1394 connection such as that illustrated as . In one embodiment, Video output  can provide composite video formatted as NTSC (National Television System Committee) video. In some embodiments, the video output  can be provided by a direct connection to the graphics processor  or the demultiplexer\/descrambler  rather than passing through the system bus  as illustrated in the exemplary block diagram. S-Video signals from output  can be similarly provided without passing through the system bus  if desired in other embodiments.","The infrared port  can be embodied as an infrared receiver  as illustrated in , to receive commands from an infrared remote control , infrared keyboard or other infrared control device. Although not explicitly shown, front panel controls may be used in some embodiments to directly control the operation of the STB  through a front panel control interface as one of interfaces . Selected interfaces such as those described above and others can be provided in STB  in various combinations as required or desired.","STB  will more commonly, as time goes on, include a disc drive interface  and disc drive mass storage  for user storage of content and data as well as providing storage of programs operating on CPU . STB  may also include floppy disc drives, CD ROM drives, CD R\/W drives, DVD drives, etc. CPU , in order to operate as a computer, is coupled through the system bus  (or through a multiple bus architecture) to memory . Memory  may include a combination any suitable memory technology including Random Access Memory (RAM), Read Only Memory (ROM), Flash memory, Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM), etc.","While the above exemplary system including STB  is illustrative of the basic components of a digital set-top box suitable for use with the present invention, the architecture shown should not be considered limiting since many variations of the hardware configuration are possible without departing from the present invention. The present invention could, for example, also be implemented in more advanced architectures such as that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/473,625, filed Dec. 29, 1999, Docket No. SONY-50N3508 entitled \u201cImproved Internet Set-Top Box Having and In-Band Tuner and Cable Modem\u201d to Jun Maruo and Atsushi Kagami. This application describes a set-top box using a multiple bus architecture with a high level of encryption between components for added security. This application is hereby incorporated by reference as though disclosed fully herein.","In general, during operation of the STB , an appropriate operating system  such as, for example, Sony Corporation's Aperios\u2122 real time operating system is loaded into, or is permanently stored in, active memory along with the appropriate drivers for communication with the various interfaces. In other embodiments, other operating systems such as Microsoft Corporation's Windows CE\u2122 could be used without departing from the present invention. Along with the operating system and associated drivers, the STB  usually operates using browser software  in active memory or may permanently reside in ROM, EEPROM or Flash memory, for example. The browser software  typically operates as the mechanism for viewing not only web pages on the Internet, but also serves as the mechanism for viewing an Electronic Program Guide (EPG) formatted as an HTML document. The browser  can also provide the mechanism for viewing normal programming (wherein normal programming is viewed as an HTML video window\u2014often occupying the entire area of screen ).","STB software architectures vary depending upon the operating system. However, in general, all such architectures generally include, at the lowest layer, various hardware interface layers. Next is an operating system layer as previously described. The software architectures of modern STB have generally evolved to include a next layer referred to as \u201cmiddleware.\u201d Such middleware permits applications to run on multiple platforms with little regard for the actual operating system in place. Middleware standards are still evolving at this writing, but are commonly based upon Javascript and HTML (hypertext Markup Language) virtual machines. At the top layer is the application layer where user applications and the like reside (e.g., browsing, email, EPG, Video On Demand (VOD), rich multimedia applications, pay per view, etc.). The current invention can be utilized with any suitable set-top box software and hardware architecture.","In the present embodiment, the OOB tuner  receives ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode) packets which are DAVIC\u2122 (Digital Audio Video Counsel) compliant. These packets are formatted as illustrated in  to provide SI data to an ATM interface . The ATM interface  provides the SI data as required to the CPU  as will be described in greater detail.","As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, MPEG or other SI data are provided as a part of a digital data stream (the transport stream) carrying the video data in many applications. For example, in satellite systems, the SI data are multiplexed with the MPEG video data to provide a single data transport stream. The receiver demultiplexes this data stream according to a packet identifier (PID) and filters the SI data (e.g., by Table ID, section number, version number, etc.) once it has been reformatted as MPEG section data, to provide the central processor with only the SI data needed.","SI data provides the STB  with several types of information. Some of the information changes very slowly, such as channel mappings and service descriptions. Other information changes comparatively rapidly, such as time and synchronization information. However, the constant stream of information should generally be filtered before it is sent to the central processor to avoid overloading the processor. The demultiplexing function provided in satellite STBs carries out this function.","However, in accordance with cable television data provided using the DAVIC\u2122 specification, the video data and the SI data are provided as separate frequency multiplexed data streams. Certain of the SI data (NIT, BAT, TOT, SDT) along with EMM (not SI data, but formatted the same in the present embodiment) are provided over the OOB channel formatted as ATM packets while the MPEG video data are transmitted inband for receipt by the inband tuner . Since the data are not time multiplexed with the video and formatted as MPEG transport stream packets, the demultiplexing function common in satellite STBs cannot be used. However, the persistent flow of SI data could similarly overload the CPU  (or require a more powerful and thus more expensive CPU) unless the problem is addressed.","The specifics of the data tables described above can be found in the European Telecommunications Standard Institute document EN 300 468 V1.3.1 (1998\u201302), at www.etsi.fr, or F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France. But generally, the tables used in the preferred embodiment are as follows:","NIT\u2014Network Information Table. This table provides frequency allocation and mapping information to identify which channel is broadcast on a specified frequency along with its Transport ID, etc.","SDT\u2014Service Description Table. This table provides information about channels (called \u201cservices\u201d in MPEG). Descriptions include service ID, service name, service description, etc.","TOT\u2014Time Offset Table. This table provides current time information with time zones and daylight savings time information used to synchronize the STB clock with a head-end clock.","BAT\u2014Boquet Association Table. A bouquet is basically a set of services (channels) offered to a certain group of STBs with the same bouquet ID. This table is used to assign differing channel mappings to STBs served by a common head end.","EMM\u2014Entitlement Management Message. This is not a standard MPEG SI table but is widely used to facilitate conditional access and has a format similar to SI tables. This table tells the STB which channels a user or account has access to (i.e., which channels have been subscribed to).","While the above tables are the tables preferred in the present embodiment, they are not to be considered limiting. For purposes of this document, any MPEG standard SI tables or non-standard tables that can be dealt with in the same manner as an SI table are equivalent and can be considered an SI table.","In order to address this problem, the ATM packet  of  is formatted with a Virtual Channel Identifier(VCI) in the header  as illustrated with the SI data in the payload portion  of the packet . The VCI is a channel number that is associated with the SI data in  and is used to replace the functionality of the Packet ID and Table ID filtering using in an inband demultiplexer based system (section and version checking are done using the system processor in the present embodiment, but this is not to be limiting). The VCI and SI data are inserted in the ATM packet at the cable head end . The VCI serves a function similar to the PID in the satellite system to permit demultiplexing in the cable set-top box. That is, the OOB data are a stream of multiplexed SI data packets formatted as ATM data with the VCI providing the key to demultiplexing the data.","The VCI is a unique numerical tag (16 bits) in the ATM cell header. It identifies the virtual channel over which the cell is to travel. By assigning unique VCI values to every type of SI data (SI table), a similar function to the demultiplexer in the satellite systems, which identifies SI tables by their packet IDs and Table IDs. can be achieved.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["188","188","408","188","412","420","422","424","408","130","132","22","420","422","424"]},"In operation, a constant stream of ATM packets carrying SI data associated with a VCI is received from the OOB tuner  by the ATM interface processor . The processor receives these packets, reads the VCI and stores the SI data in the buffer memory associated with the VCI. The CPU  can obtain the SI data any time it is required by making a request of the ATM interface processor . This can be in the form of a message requesting the information or in the form of an interrupt directed to the ATM interface processor  or any other desired communication technique. In the embodiment shown, a request is placed on bus  by the CPU  and received by processor . The processor  then retrieves the appropriate information and places it on the bus  to CPU .","The processes outlined above are illustrated in connection with process  of  and process  of . Process  starts af  and awaits receipt of a new ATM packet from OOB tuner  at . When a packet is received at , the VCI is read from the packet header at  and the SI data are stored in the appropriate buffer, as determined by the VCI, at . Control then passes to  where a determination is made as to receipt of a request from the STB processor CPU . If no request has been made at , control returns to . If a request has been made, the CPU  's request is serviced at  before control is returned to . Many variations of this process are possible. For example, requests from CPU  can be stored in a separate buffer that is periodically checked or an interrupt can be used to provide immediate service to either CPU  or to data from the OOB tuner . Moreover, data from the OOB tuner  can be cached for retrieval by processor  to avoid loss of data. Other variations will occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the present invention.","The process  of retrieving SI data at the STB CPU  shown in  starts at . When the CPU  needs SI data at , a request is sent from the CPU  to the ATM interface processor  at . The ATM interface processor  then retrieves the most recent SI data requested () and sends the data to CPU . The CPU  receives this data at  and control returns to .","By use of the present invention as described, the CPU  is spared the burden of being constantly bombarded with SI data in the form of ATM packets. Managing the ATM packets is handled by a separate processor that can be optimized for this purpose to provide the most recent SI data to the CPU . The buffer memories can be configured in various ways without departing from the invention. Additionally, ATM formatting of SI tables can be applied to both MPEG SI tables and other tables resembling MPEG SI tables so long as they provide system type information and can be similarly formatted within the ATM packets.","Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments based upon use of a programmed processor. However, the invention should not be so limited, since the present invention could be implemented using hardware component equivalents such as special purpose hardware and\/or dedicated processors which are equivalents to the invention as described and claimed. Similarly, general purpose computers, microprocessor based computers, micro-controllers, optical computers, analog computers, dedicated processors and\/or dedicated hard wired logic may be used to construct alternative equivalent embodiments of the present invention.","Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the program steps used to implement the embodiments described above can be implemented using disc storage as well as other forms of storage including Read Only Memory (ROM) devices, Random Access Memory (RAM) devices; optical storage elements, magnetic storage elements, magneto-optical storage elements, flash memory, core memory and\/or other equivalent storage technologies without departing from the present invention. Such alternative storage devices should be considered equivalents.","The present invention is preferably implemented using a programmed processor executing programming instructions that are broadly described above in flow chart form and can be stored as instructions on any suitable electronic storage medium. However, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the processes described above can be implemented in any number of variations and in many suitable programming languages without departing from the present invention. For example, the order of certain operations carried out can often be varied, and additional operations can be added without departing from the invention. Error trapping can be added and\/or enhanced and variations can be made in user interface and information presentation without departing from the present invention. Such variations are contemplated and considered equivalent.","While the invention has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications, permutations and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing description. Accordingly, it is intended that the present invention embrace all such alternatives, modifications and variations as fall within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features of the invention believed to be novel are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. The invention itself however, both as to organization and method of operation, together with objects and advantages thereof, may be best understood by reference to the following detailed description of the invention, which describes certain exemplary embodiments of the invention, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"188"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":"188"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["132","188"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
