---
title: Combination analog and digital modem
abstract: A combination modem including at least one line connector that is configured for coupling to a transmission medium, analog modem logic that is capable of performing analog modem communications via the transmission medium, digital modem logic that is capable of performing digital modem communications via the transmission medium, a bus interface that enables communication with a computer via an expansion bus of the computer, and processing logic. In this manner a single modem expansion card supports both analog and digital modem technologies using only one slot of an expansion bus of the computer. The analog modem logic may support 56K technologies, such as K56Flex™, V.90, etc., or any combination thereof. The digital modem logic may be according to any type of xDSL, such as ADSL, or U-ADSL, etc. The modem may operate as an analog modem, a digital modem, or as both at the same time with or without a POTS splitter. A single digital signal processor (DSP) located on the modem card may be used to support either the analog or the digital modem communications at any given time or both at the same time. The modem card may be configured as a PCI card for plugging into a PCI bus of the computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06868502&OS=06868502&RS=06868502
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 06868502
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010906
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/173,232, filed Oct. 15, 1998, entitled \u201cA Combination Analog and Digital Modem\u201d by Wei Du, et al, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The present invention relates to a combination modem that supports both analog and digital modem formats.","Many personal computer systems (PC's) are sold with, or have the ability to add, a communication device such as a digital or analog modem or the like that enables communication with an external network via telephone wires from the home. The most common external network is the Internet, although other networks including broadband networks, public networks and wide area networks (WANs) are contemplated. Dial-up modem analog modem technology is relatively easy to install and comfortable for the end user to use and currently operates up to a common data rate of approximately 56K bits per second (bps). Current 56K technologies include the K56Flex\u2122 Standard and the ITU (International Telecommunications Union) V.90 Standard. A 56K bps dial-up modem provides a significant increase in speed as compared to a 14.4K bps modem and is faster than a 28.8K bps modem, although the actual modem speed achieved is directly proportional to the quality of the channel characteristics of the voice band signal in a given home location. At the present time, few, if any, of the Internet Service Providers (ISP) are guaranteeing the actual rate for the end user.","In spite of advances in dial-up technology, the explosive popularity of the Internet has caused consumers to become frustrated by the relatively slow speed of their connection using analog modems. The Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) service has been used at some home sites and small businesses and offers somewhat higher speed access. However, access charges for ISDN are still high for the average consumer and it is not available everywhere. Also, each customer's loop must first be qualified in order to be connected.","Digital Subscriber Loop (DSL) technology, particularly the asymmetrical DSL (ADSL), is beginning to emerge as the technology of choice to provide broadband access to consumers. A digital class of modems supporting ADSL provides significantly higher speed than either analog modems or ISDN devices. Furthermore, ADSL does not require a different type of transmission media such as an ISDN line or the like. Full rate ADSL is described in the proposed T1.413 issue 2 standard by ANSI (American National Standards Institute, Inc.) for telecommunications. The Universal ADSL (UAWG) is an organization of telecommunications and computer companies that are advocating and supporting the use of an alternative ADSL standard referred to as Universal ADSL (U-ADSL) or ADSL \u201cLite\u201d technology that operates at approximately 1.5 megabits per second (Mbps). ITU is proposing an international standard referred to as \u201cG.Lite\u201d that is substantially similar to U-ADSL.","Digital and analog modems have typically been treated as two different communication devices and thus have been designed on separate platforms. While analog modems are currently the primary supported platform, ADSL is becoming more prominent and may soon be the platform of choice for data connections. An analog modem is still desired to maintain certain types of communications, such as facsimile communications. Many consumers will require, therefore, that both platforms coexist inside their personal computers (PCs). In order to support both platforms, two separate expansion cards have been necessary requiring two separate slots in the PC. This reduces PC expandability, increases the overall cost and wastes valuable PC resources.","It is desired to provide a combined solution to offer both analog and digital modem communications using an efficient form factor without wasting PC resources.","A combination modem according to the present invention includes at least one line connector that is configured for coupling to a transmission medium, analog modem logic coupled to the line connector that is capable of performing analog modem communications via the transmission medium, digital modem logic coupled to the line connector that is capable of performing digital modem communications via the transmission medium, a bus interface that enables communication with a computer via an expansion bus of the computer, and processing logic coupled to the analog modem logic, the digital modem logic and the bus interface. In this manner a single modem supports both analog and digital modem technologies. This is particularly desirable in an expansion card format where both technologies are supported on the same expansion card using only one slot of an expansion bus.","The analog modem logic may include a data access arrangement (DAA) coupled to the line connector and an analog modem codec coupled to the DAA and the processing logic. In one embodiment, the DAA and the analog modem codec operate up to approximately 56 kilobits per second (56K bps). For example, the analog portion may operate according to any analog modem standard, such as the K56Flex\u2122 Standard or the ITU (International Telecommunications Union) V.90 Standard or any combination of these standards.","The digital modem logic may comprise an analog front end (AFE) coupled to the line connector and a digital modem codec coupled to the AFE and the processing logic. The AFE, also referred to as a transceiver, may further comprise a line driver, a receiver and hybrid echo rejection circuitry. In embodiments described herein, the AFE and the digital modem codec operate according to any type of digital subscriber loop (xDSL) technology. For example, the digital portion may operate according to asymmetrical digital subscriber loop (ADSL) or the universal asymmetrical digital subscriber loop (U-ADSL) technology.","The expansion bus is preferably a peripheral component interconnect (PCI) bus where the bus interface operates according to a PCI standard. It is noted that a PCI bus is generally capable of handling 56K analog modem communications or ADSL modem communications. Further, the PCI bus is capable of handling both 56K analog and ADSL modem communications simultaneously. The processing logic may comprise a digital signal processor (DSP) or the like. In a particular embodiment described herein, a DSP is chosen that incorporates the bus interface. The DSP may be of any type that is capable of handling either 56K analog or ADSL modem communications. In this manner, the modem may operate as either an analog modem or a digital modem. The DSP may also be of any type that is capable of simultaneously handling both 56K and ADSL modem communications.","The modem may be used in a home location with or without a POTS splitter installed. The line connector may include at least two different connectors including a first line connector coupled to the analog modem logic and a second line connector coupled to the digital modem logic. Further, a switch or like may be provided and coupled between the first and second line connectors that operates to couple the first and second line connectors together when closed and that operates to isolate the first and second line connectors when opened. In this manner, the modem may be used at a home location including a POTS splitter that separates the transmission medium into a first line for analog communications and a second line for digital communications. For example, the first line may be a POTS line used for the analog modem portion, such as 56Kbps, while the second line may be used for the digital modem portion, such as according to ADSL. The switch is opened to electrically isolate (and\/or physically separate) the analog and digital portions. Alternatively, the modem may be used at a splitterless home location (without a POTS splitter) where analog and digital modem communications coexist or are otherwise combined on the same physical line. In this latter case, the switch is closed so that the combined communications are provided to both the analog and digital portions.","A combination modem according to the present invention is preferably configured as an expansion card for plugging into a slot of an expansion bus of a computer system. The computer system includes a bus system including the expansion bus, a processor and a memory system. The combination modem is configured in a similar manner as described above. The expansion bus is preferably a PCI bus, where the modem is configured as a PCI card for plugging into a PCI slot of the PCI bus. The computer system preferably includes analog modem driver software, executed by the processor from the memory system, that cooperates with the analog modem logic to perform the analog modem communications. Further, the computer system includes digital modem driver software, executed by the processor from the memory system, that cooperates with the digital modem logic to perform the digital modem communications.","It is now appreciated that a combined modem solution according to the present invention offers both analog and digital modem communications using an efficient form factor without wasting PC resources. Depending upon the configuration of the modem and the computer software, the modem may operate as an analog modem, a digital modem, or as both at the same time. A user may use the combination modem to access broadband networks or WANs using the faster ADSL technology and may use the same modem to access narrowband networks, such as via the public switched telephone network (PSTN) or the like, using the traditional analog technology. An example of a desired use of an analog modem is to send and receive facsimiles using the computer or PC.","Referring now to , a block diagram is shown of a communication system  including a combination modem  implemented according to the present invention. A home location  is wired with a transmission medium , such as standard four wire twisted-pair telephone lines commonly used in homes throughout the United States. In the embodiment shown, the transmission medium  comprises telephone wires routed from a central office  of the telephone company (Telco) to the home site  establishing an unbroken metallic path. Other transmission media are contemplated, such as coaxial cables, various types of twisted-pair wire configurations, fiber optic cables, etc. and may also include one or more wireless connections as desired.","The transmission medium  enters the home location  via a standard network interface device demarcation (D)  and then is routed throughout the home location . A plurality of phone line connectors  are provided, each for enabling extension of the transmission medium  for connection to a network device via a compatible connector. For example, the transmission medium  may be routed to standard RJ-11 telephone plugs installed throughout the home location  to connect computers and telephones using corresponding RJ-11 plugs. Each connector  refers to the plug, the jack or both. One or more standard telephones  are coupled to the transmission medium  within the home location , each via a corresponding connector . The modem  includes at least one port or connector C for coupling to the transmission medium  via a connector . The connector C may also conform to the RJ-11 standard, although any type of suitable connector is contemplated. A computer system or personal computer (PC)  is also provided and coupled to the modem  in a standard manner. The modem  may comprise an external modem or an internal modem configured as a plug in expansion card. The modem  includes an analog modem portion (AM) and a digital modem portion (DM) as further described below. The communication system  illustrates a splitterless embodiment in which the home location  does not include a Plain Old Telephone Service (POTS) splitter. In this manner, the modem  and the telephones  communicate on the same transmission medium or physical wires.","The central office  is remotely located relative to the home location  but coupled to the same transmission medium . The central office  includes a POTS splitter  coupled to the transmission medium  and a digital modem interface (DM I\/F)  coupled to the POTS splitter . Although not shown, the POTS splitter  includes a high pass filter (HPF) coupled to the DM I\/F  and a low pass filter (LPF) coupled to a POTS line card . In this manner, the DM portion of the modem  of the home location  may establish a communication link with the DM I\/F  at the central office  via the transmission medium  on both sides of the demarcation . The DM I\/F  at the central office  may further be coupled to a broadband network , which comprises any external network system, such as the Internet or the like. An appropriate Internet Service Provider (ISP) and network router (not shown) could be provided to establish a communication link with the broadband network . In this manner, the user at the home location  has access to the broadband network  via the modem , the transmission medium  and the DM I\/F  of the central office .","The POTS line card , such as a Subscriber Line Interface Circuit (SLIC) device or the like, is coupled to the POTS splitter  at the central office  for establishing telephonic communications with any of the telephones  at the home location . Alternatively, the POTS splitter  enables telephonic communications with the AM portion of the modem  if desired. The POTS line card  is coupled to a narrowband network  via the public switched telephone network (PSTN). The AM portion of the modem  may be used in any manner as is common for analog modems. For example, the AM portion of the modem  could be used for sending and receiving facsimiles (faxes) with the appropriate software. It is noted that the AM portion of the modem  may also be used to connect to the Internet or the like via the narrowband network  via standard analog modem communications. However, if the central office  of the telephone company includes the DM I\/F , then it is preferred to use the DM portion of the modem  for establishing data communications with the Internet or other such data networks via the broadband network  since it is significantly faster. The AM portion of the modem  and the narrowband network  are sufficient for fax communications. In this manner, the modem  supports both analog and digital communications. In one embodiment, the AM and DM portions of the modem  are used in the alternative and not at the same time. However, the modem  and the PC  may be configured to allow the AM and DM portions to be used simultaneously.","In a more specific embodiment, the DM portion of the modem  operates according to Digital Subscriber Loop (DSL) technology, and more particularly to asymmetrical DSL (ADSL). For example, the DM portion of the modem  comprises a Remote ADSL Termination Unit (ATU-R) and the DM I\/F  at the central office  comprises a Central office ADSL Termination Unit (ATU-C). Although a full rate ADSL system may be used, another standard is the Universal ADSL (U-ADSL) based on modifications to the current standard document T1.413 Issue 2. The modulation method may be Discrete Multitone (DMT) using up to 128 tones for U-ADSL as compared to up to 256 tones for full rate. It is noted that any other of the various DSL technologies (xDSL) is also contemplated to establish the communication link. Also, the AM portion of the modem  operates as a 56K modem, such as according to the K56Flex\u2122 Standard or the ITU V.90 Standard. K56Flex\u2122 is the PCM modem modulation scheme that offers data rates of up to 56K bits per second (bps) downstream (host to client) and data rates of up to 31.2K bps using V.34 upstream. V.90 is the ITU (International Telecommunications Union) standard for PCM data modems for synchronous data signaling rates in the downstream direction from 28K to 56K bps in increments of 1333 bps. Of course, any other type of analog modem protocol may be supported, including any of the standards known to those skilled in the art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00031","num":"00031"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","216","200","100","216","116","216","216","116","216","116","200","204","216","104","204","202","204","102","202","102","102","202","102","102","102"],"i":["a ","b","a ","b. "]},"The lower frequency transmission medium is coupled to the telephones  and to a first connector C of the modem  via respective connectors . The higher frequency transmission medium is coupled to a second connector C of the modem  via a connector . The connectors C and C may conform to the RJ-11 standard, although any type of suitable connector is contemplated. The connector C is internally coupled to the AM portion of the modem  and the connector C is internally coupled to the DM portion of the modem . In this manner, the AM portion of the modem  operates via the transmission medium and the DM portion of the modem  operates via the transmission medium . In this manner, the DM portion of the modem  is isolated from the POTS portion thereby reducing or otherwise eliminating adverse affects of the POTS wiring and communication devices. The modem  may also include a switch S, such as a single pole, double throw slide switch or the like, that is coupled between the connector C and the AM portion and the connector C and the DM portion of the modem . The switch S is figuratively shown in the open position to achieve isolation between the connectors C and C and thus between the AM and DM portions. If the switch S is in the closed position, the connectors C and C are effectively connected together, so that the modem  effectively operates in a similar manner as the modem  where either connector C or C may serve as a single connector C.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00033","num":"00033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["216","104","102","1","112","2","216","216","202","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00034","num":"00034"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["114","216","114","402","114","404","402","404","404","406","406","402","406","404","114","408","402","408"]},"Any one or more of the bus(es) of the bus system  conforms to any one or more bus standards, such as the Extended integrated system architecture (EISA) standard, the microchannel architecture (MCA) standard, the peripheral component interconnect (PCI) standard, etc. For example, the bus system  includes at least one I\/O or expansion bus  with one or more slots (S) for receiving and coupling corresponding compatible expansion cards. As shown, the modem  is coupled to or otherwise plugged into one of the slots S of the expansion bus . In one embodiment, the expansion bus  operates according to the PCI standard and the modem  is implemented as a PCI card. It is noted, however, that the present invention is not limited to any particular bus standard or configuration and that any appropriate bus that supports the analog and\/or digital communication data rate may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00036","num":"00036"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["216","506","1","502","1","502","504","506","2","508","2","508","1","2","1","2","508","510","506","510","506","512","514","514","410","114","516","410","516"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00037","num":"00037"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["216","520","524","520","524","522","526","520","524","506","520","524","410","528"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00038","num":"00038"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["216","606","410","630","602","1","604","604","606","608","2","610","606","610","606","1","2","1","2","614","622","606","620","624"]},"Separate line interfaces and codecs are provided for both the analog and digital modem communications, and thus may be operated at the same time. Separate DSPs, such as the DSPs  and  are capable of being operated at the same time. The DSP of the modem , such as the DSP  or the DSP , may be selected to operate either the analog modem portion or the digital modem portion at any given time. Alternatively, the DSP may be capable of supporting both the analog and digital modem communications at the same time. In this latter embodiment, the bus I\/F  or the DSP  and the expansion bus  must also be capable of handling both analog and digital modem communications simultaneously. A PCI bus and corresponding PCI interfaces are more than adequate for handling 56Kbps analog modem communications and ADSL communications simultaneously.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00040","num":"00040"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","216","216","216","216","702","410","702","704","708","706","702"]},"A port open request may also come from a TAPI (Telephony API) application  and TAPI  through a Unimodem Telephony Service Provider (TSP)  and a Unimodem V\u00d7D , which interfaces the VCOMM V\u00d7D . After a successful port open operation, further requests, such as port configuration, sending and receiving data etc., can be handled by the modem V\u00d7D . The port is closed upon end of modem use, hanging up a call, or disconnecting.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00042","num":"00042"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","216","708","710","216","712","714","704","702","700","708","710","704","802","804","216","806","808","810","814","812","812","814"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00043","num":"00043"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["814","902","904","906","908","910","216","10"]},"Other software architectures are contemplated for the digital portion functions of the modem . For example,  is a functional block diagram of a PPP-Over-ATM software architecture  through current Windows Dial-up-Networking. In this case, there is no native support for an ATM medium so that the miniport provides NDISWAN and telephonic services. Internet applications  interface the modem  via Winsock NetBIOS , a Transport Device Interface , TCP\/IP or NetBEUI or IPX\/SPX (Internet Packet Exchange\/Sequenced Packet Exchange) protocol(s) , and NDISWAN  and WAN miniport drivers  via an NDIS wrapper . The WAN miniport drivers  interface the NDIS wrapper  via data flow connections  and . The Internet Applications  interface Dial-Up Networking  via a data flow connection  and Dial-Up Networking  interfaces Remote Access Services (RAS) API and PPP Control Protocols  via a data flow connection . TAPI  interfaces the RAS API and PPP Control Protocols  via a data flow connection . NDISTAPI  interfaces TAPI  via interface  and NDISWAN  via interface . Remaining interfaces are IP\/LAN interfaces. Of note, NetBIOS is a transport protocol by IBM\u00ae Corp. and NetBEUI (Network Basic Extended User Interface) is an extension of NetBIOS that communicates through NDIS.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00045","num":"00045"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"],"b":["1100","1002","216","1004","1006","1008","1008","1104","1106","1112","1106","1112","1108","1110"]},"Since not all telephone companies currently have the infrastructure for PPP-Over-ATM support, and a few telephone companies currently have an end-to-end architecture based on an IP-Ethernet-Over-ATM model, the ADSL miniport driver may need to be flexible enough to also provide support for this scenario.  is a functional block diagram illustrating an IP-Over-Ethernet-Over-ATM software architecture  for use with NDIS version 4.0. Internet applications  interface the modem  via Winsock NetBIOS , the Transport Device Interface , TCP\/IP or NetBEUI or IPX\/SPX protocol(s) , and ADSL miniport drivers  via NDIS wrapper . In this case, the ADSL miniport drivers  include a layer for protocol translation to bridge Ethernet to ATM.","It is now appreciated that a combined modem solution according to the present invention offers both analog and digital modem communications using an efficient form factor without wasting PC resources. Depending upon the configuration of the modem and the computer software, the modem may operate as an analog modem, a digital modem, or as both at the same time. A user may use the combination modem to access broadband networks or WANs using the faster ADSL technology and may use the same modem to access narrowband networks, such as via the public switched telephone network (PSTN) or the like, using the traditional analog technology. An example of a desired use of an analog modem is to send and receive facsimiles using the computer or PC.","Although the system and method of the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiment, it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein, but on the contrary, it is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications, and equivalents, as can be reasonably included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A better understanding of the present invention can be obtained when the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment is considered in conjunction with the following drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":"FIGS. 8-12","b":"2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
