---
title: System and method for providing print preview/media selection
abstract: This invention relates to a Web-based imaging system that provides a print preview. Such systems of this type, generally, allow the user to preview the print job prior to printing of the print job. In particular, if the media to be printed upon is non-white, the system will provide the user with a view of how the print job will look on the non-white media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06943903&OS=06943903&RS=06943903
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 06943903
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010323
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This invention relates to a Web-based imaging system that provides a print preview. Such systems of this type, generally, allow the user to preview the print job prior to printing of the print job. In particular, if the media to be printed upon is non-white, the system will provide the user with a view of how the print job will look on the non-white media.","It is known, in the printing arts, to employ print preview technologies. These systems are utilized in order to eliminate trial and error to determine how the print job will look prior to printing. Exemplary of such prior is U.S. Pat. No. 5,640,580 ('580) to G. C. Slayden et al., entitled \u201cMethod and System for Previewing Computer Output,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 5,652,901 ('901) to G. C. Slayden et al., entitled \u201cMethod and System for Previewing Computer Output,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 5,680,629 ('629) to G. C. Slayden et al., entitled \u201cMethod and System for Previewing Computer Output,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 5,682,541 ('541) to M. M. Martin, entitled \u201cPreview System for Printed Documents,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 6,108,009 ('009) to N. Nishikawa, entitled \u201cImage Processing Method and Apparatus for Previewing Color Images,\u201d U.S. Pat. No. 6,134,568 ('568) to R. Tonkin, entitled \u201cPreviewing an Assembled Document,\u201d and commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6,157,439 ('439) to P. Rousseau et al., entitled \u201cCopy System with Document Previewing.\u201d While these references employ print preview technologies, they are not utilized in Web-based Imaging and they do not eliminate the trial and error technique of determining how the print job will look on the desired print media prior to printing. This is especially important if the print media is non-white.","It is apparent from the above that there exists a need in the art for a Web-based Imaging system that provides a print preview that allows the user to see how the print job will look on the media to be printed prior to printing, especially if the print media is non-white. It is a purpose of this invention to fulfill this and other needs in the art in a manner more apparent to the skilled artisan once given the following disclosure.","Generally speaking, this invention fulfills these needs by providing a method for print preview, comprising the steps of: selecting a document to be printed; accessing a Web imaging home page; selecting a target printer; viewing an image of the document on target printer home page; selecting a media upon which the document is to be printed; determining if the target printer can print the document on the media; and printing the document on the media.","In certain preferred embodiments, the document or portions of the document can be prepared by the user just prior to printing or the user can download the document or portions of the document from the Internet. Also, the Web imaging home page is located in the Web-based Imaging system. Finally, the determination step includes the steps of having the target printer send information to the target printer home page regarding the printer's capabilities and the media loaded in that printer.","In another further preferred embodiment, the print preview system allows the user to see how the print job will look on the media to be printed upon prior to the actual printing. This is particularly useful if the media to be printed upon is non-white.","The preferred print preview system, according to the present invention, offers the following advantages: ease of use; excellent print preview characteristics; ability to use a variety of print media; and excellent economy. In fact, in many of the preferred embodiments, these factors of print preview characteristics, use of a variety of print media, and economy are optimized to an extent that is considerably higher than heretofore achieved in prior, known print preview systems.","The above and other features of the present invention, which will become more apparent as the description proceeds, are best understood by considering the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like characters represent like parts throughout the several views and in which:","As set forth in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/712,336 to S. Simpson et al., entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Processing Data in a Distributed Environment\u201d, which was filed on Nov. 13, 2000 and is incorporated entirely by reference, to facilitate a complete understanding of the invention the following terms and acronyms are used throughout the detailed description:","Client-Server. A model of interaction in a distributed system in which a program at one site sends a request to a program at another site and waits for a response. The requesting program is called the \u201cclient,\u201d and the program that responds to the request is called the \u201cserver.\u201d In the context of the World Wide Web (discussed below), the client is a \u201cWeb browser\u201d (or simply \u201cbrowser\u201d) which runs on a computer of a user; the program which responds to browser requests by serving Web pages, or other types of Web content, is commonly referred to as a \u201cWeb server.\u201d","Content. A set of executable instructions that is served by a server to a client and which is intended to be executed by the client so as to provide the client with certain functionality. Web content refers to content that is meant to be executed by operation of a Web browser. Web content, therefore, may include (the following is a non-exhaustive list) one or more of the following: HTML code, Java script\u2122, Java Program(s) and C-\u201cSharp\u201d code Hyperlink. A navigational link is from one document to another, from one portion (or component) of a document to another, or to a Web resource, such as a Java applet. Typically, a hyperlink is displayed as a highlighted word or phrase that can be selected by clicking on it using a mouse to jump to the associated document or document portion or to retrieve a particular resource.","Hypertext System. A computer-based informational system in which documents (and possibly other types of data entities) are linked together via hyperlinks to form a user-navigable \u201cWeb.\u201d","Internet. A collection of interconnected (public and\/or private) networks that are linked together by a set of standard protocols (such as TCP\/IP and HTTP) to form a global, distributed network. (While this term is intended to refer to what is now commonly known as the Internet, it is also intended to encompass variations that may be made in the future, including changes and additions to existing standard protocols.)","World Wide Web (\u201cWeb\u201d). Used herein to refer generally to both (i) a distributed collection of interlinked, user-viewable Hypertext documents (commonly referred to as Web documents or Web pages) that are accessible via the Internet, and (ii) the client and server software components which provide user access to such documents using standardized Internet protocols. Currently, the primary standard protocol for allowing applications to locate and acquire Web documents is HTTP, and the Web pages are encoded using HTML.","However, the terms \u201cWeb\u201d and \u201cWorld Wide Web\u201d are intended to encompass future markup languages and transport protocols that may be used in place of (or in addition to) HTML and HTTP.","Web Site. A computer system that serves informational content over a network using the standard protocols of the World Wide Web. Typically, a Web site corresponds to a particular Internet domain name, such as \u201cHP.com,\u201d and includes the content associated with a particular organization. As used herein, the term is generally intended to encompass both (i) the hardware\/software server components that serve the informational content over the network, and (ii) the \u201cback end\u201d hardware\/software components, including any non-standard or specialized components, that interact with the server components to perform services for Web site users. Importantly, a Web Site can have additional functionality, For example, a Web site may have the ability to print documents, scan documents, etc.","HTML (HyperText Markup Language ). A standard coding convention and set of codes for attaching presentation and linking attributes to informational content within documents. (HTML 2.0 is currently the primary standard used for generating Web documents.) During a document authoring stage, the HTML codes (referred to as \u201ctags\u201d) are embedded within the informational content of the document. When the Web document (or HTML document) is subsequently transferred from a Web server to a browser, the codes are interpreted by the browser and used to display the document. Additionally in specifying how the Web browser is to display the document, HTML tags can be used to create links to other Web documents (commonly referred to as \u201chyperlinks\u201d). For more information on HTML, see Ian S. Graham, The HTML Source Book, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1995 (ISBN 0471-11894-4).","HTTP (HyperText Transport Protocol). The standard World Wide Web client-server protocol used for the exchange of information (such as HTML documents, and client requests for such documents) between a browser and a Web server. HTTP includes a number of different types of messages that can be sent from the client to the server to request different types of server actions. For example, a \u201cGET\u201d message, which has the format GET <URL>, causes the server to return the document or file located at the specified URL.","URL (Uniform Resource Locator . . . A unique address which fully specifies the location of a file or other resource on the Internet or a network. The general format of a URL is protocol:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["702","702","704","706","708","710","710"]},"All the devices depicted in  are able to communicate over a communication link . Furthermore, the communication link  may represent a network, a series of networks, a wireless network(s), the Internet, or any combination thereof.","The personal computer  may be any type of computing device that allows a user to interactively browse Web Sites and to perform the functions that are described below. For example, the personal computer  may be a personal computer that runs a local operating system, such as a version of MICROSOFT WINDOWS, NT, UNIX or Linux, etc. As shown, the personal computer  includes a user interface . The user interface  includes a display monitor  and a user input device(s)  for allowing the user to provide input to the computer . In this example, the input devices  include a keyboard and a mouse. For purposes of the later discussion, it is noted that personal computer  is used by multiple users, each having their own user profile. Two of these users, a first user , and a second user  are depicted. It is assumed that each one of these users has his\/her own user profile information and identifier (i.e., user name) stored in the personal computer .","For purposes of the later discussion, a user presently logged in to the personal computer  at any point in time is referred to herein as the \u201cactive user\u201d. Thus, if the first user  is presently logged into the personal computer , that user is presently the \u201cactive user\u201d.","It is important to note that the devices depicted in  are all in accordance with a system wide standard. Accordingly, this standard specifies a set of generic access requests that are intended to cause an executing computer to access a set of target data describing a target image. In this case, however, each user can have his\/her own target image. The target data accessed in response to these requests at any point in time is the target data that is associated with the active user.  are used to illustrate this concept further.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["704","720","724","704","802","704"]},"Next, it is assumed that the active user provides input that he\/she wishes a particular image to be a \u201ctarget image\u201d. The computer  receives this input at step . In response, the computer  responds by identifying the data describing the image as \u201ctarget data\u201d (step ). In addition, the computer  operates to link the target data to the identifier assigned to the active user  (step ). In this manner, the target data becomes associated with the active user.","Now consider .  is an abstract drawing of the personal computer  under the following scenario. First, it is assumed that the first user  has previously interacted with the personal computer to identify a first target image (target image #). As a result, the data representing this image has been identified, by the personal computer , as target data (target data #). Additionally, the target data # is linked to the identifier assigned to the first user .","It is further assumed that the second user  has also previously interacted with the personal computer  and has identified a second target image (target image #). As a result, the data describing this image is also identified as target data (target data #). This second set of data, however, is linked to the identifier assigned to the second user .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["704","3","704","1002","704","1004","704","1006"]},"Thus, if the first user  had logged into the personal computer  at step , the personal computer  would respond to the generic access instruction by accessing the target data #. Conversely, if the second user  had logged into the personal computer  at step , the personal computer  would respond to the same generic access instruction in a different manner. That is, the personal computer  would access the target data #.","Lets now consider some of the hardware and software components in each one of the devices depicted in FIG. .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["708","708","1102","1104","1106","1108","1106","708","712","1102","1110","1104"]},"Also stored in the memory  is a first Web page  and \u201cdocument creation Web content\u201d . Both the first Web page  and the document creation Web content  are assigned a URL.","As will be described in greater detail below, the document creation Web content  is used to provide a \u201cdocument creation service\u201d to external devices. Importantly for this discussion, this content includes generic access instructions that are in accordance with the system wide standard. When executed, these instructions result in generic access requests being generated in order to access a set of target data. As mentioned above, generic access instructions are instructions that do not include the location of the target data itself. The \u201cgeneric access requests\u201d generated from these instructions also do not include the location of the target data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["710","710","1202","1204","1206","1208","1210","1206","710","712","1208"]},"The processor  is used to execute the print Web Server  and the printer control program  that is shown stored in the memory . Also stored in the memory  is a Web page  and \u201cDocument Print Web content\u201d . Both the Web page  and the Document print Web content  are assigned a URL.","As will be described in detail below, the document print content is used to provide a document printing service to external devices. Importantly for this discussion, this content includes generic access instructions that are also in accordance with the system wide standard. When executed, these instructions results in generic access requests being generated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["706","706","1302","1304","1306","1308","1306","1306","712"]},"The processor  is used to execute the Server  shown stored in the memory . As will be discussed in greater detail below, the memory  includes a reserved storage area  for storing target data that is associated with users of the personal computer .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["704","704","1402","1404","1408","1410","1408","706","712"]},"As shown, the memory  includes a reserved storage area  and a Web Browser . The Web Browser  includes an extension component (extension) . The processor  is used to execute the Web Browser .","Importantly, the extension  is configured to respond to generic access requests (generated by downloaded Web Content) by accessing the set of target data that is linked to the current active user. It will be clear to a person skilled in the art that the extension  may be an application programming interface (API) and the generic access requests can be API function calls. It is important to note, however, that the there are other ways to implement the functionality provided by the extension . The present invention is not limited to any one way.","It is also noted that in each of the computers just described, the memory shown may include both volatile and nonvolatile components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data upon loss of power. Non-volatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power.","Thus, each of the memories shown in  may comprise, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), hard disk drives, floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive, compact disk(s) accessed via a compact disk drive, magnet tape(s) accessed via an appropriate tape drive, and\/or other memory components (currently known in the art, or yet to be developed), or a combination of any two or more memory components.","In addition, it is also noted that in each of the devices just described, the processor shown may include one or more than one microprocessors. Furthermore, the local interface in each device may include, for example, one or more data buses and accompanying control buses.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["712","704","1504","1504","704","1504","704"]},"The firewall , however, includes a conventional proxy server (hereafter \u201cfirewall proxy\u201d) that allows the personal computer  to pass HTTP requests to the Web server , the Server  and the Web server . As will be seen, by using the HTTP protocol to traverse the firewall  in this manner, the personal computer  is able to make use of the services provided by the first Web site  and the printer . In addition, the personal computer  is able to store target data in the memory  located in the second computer . It is important to note that in other embodiments of the invention other communication protocols (either now existing or yet to be developed) can be used.","In response to user input, the Web browser  can request the first Web page  as well as the Document creation Web content  by transmitting appropriate HTTP requests (via the proxy) to the Web server . Similarly, the Web browser , can request the printer Web page  as well as the document print Web content  received from the Web server . The Web browser  can also communicate one or more sets of data (via the proxy) to the server  and can retrieve this data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 10-12","b":["704","708"]},"Referring first to , a user logs into the personal computer  and begins a user session (step ). In this manner, the user becomes an active user.","Next, the user inputs an appropriate URL for the First Web page . The Web Browser  receives this input at step  and in response transmits (via the firewall proxy) an appropriate request for the page to the Web server  (step ).","The Web server  receives the request and responds by transmitting the first Web page  to the Web Browser  (via the firewall proxy).","The Web Browser  receives this response from the Web server  at step  and displays the received first Web page  at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["1112","1412","1112","1704","1706","1704","708","1706","1412","1110","1114","1112"]},"Referring again to , it is assumed the user selects the get document service hyperlink  and the browser  receives this input at step . In response to this input, the browser  transmits an appropriate request to the Web Sever  (via the firewall proxy) for the Document creation Web content  (step ). The browser  receives and begins executing the Web content  at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["1114","1612","1114","716","1802","714"]},"The Web content  receives these inputs at step  and creates a set of data describing the image (step ). In this example, the data is created in a file format that is device independent. That is to say, the data represents the image in a manner that is independent of the Web content, the local operating system and hardware used to generate it. One example of such a format is the format known as \u201cPDF\u201d (Portable Document Format).","Next, the Web content  provides a means for the user to indicate whether he\/she wishes the image defined at step  to be saved as a \u201ctarget image\u201d (step ). For example, the user interface displayed at step  may include one or more selectable options or a pull down menu for providing a user a means to indicate this desire.","The Web content  is assumed to receive this indication at step . In response to this input, the Web content  generates generic access requests in order to cause the data generated at step  to be stored (step ). The Extension  is responsible for responding to these requests.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["1414","1822","1414","1902","1414","1806","1312","706","1904","1414","712","1310","1414","1504"]},"The server  responds by storing the target data in the reserved storage area . It will be assumed that the first target data  represents this target data.","In addition to communicating the target data  to the server , the extension  (preferably) also stores the location of the first target data  so that the data can later be accessed (step ) and links this location to the active user's identifier (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0088"},"figref":["FIGS. 14-22","FIG. 14"],"b":["704","710"]},"As indicated in , the first user  has made use of the document creation service to identify a target image (target image #). The data (target data #) that describes this image is stored in the internal memory of the second computer . Furthermore, the second user  has also made use of the document creation service to define a target image (target image #). The data (target data #) that describes this second image that is also stored in the internal memory of the second computer .","Referring now to , one of the two users logs into the personal computer  (step ) and executes the Web browser . The user is then assumed to provide the URL of the printer Web page . The Web browser  receives this input at step .","In response to this input, the Browser  transmits an appropriate request to the Web Server  for the Printer Web page .","The Web server  receives this input and responds by transmitting the printer Web page  to the Web Browser .","The Web Browser  receives and displays the printer Web page  at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 16"],"b":["1216","1216","2104","2106","2104","710","2106","1412","1212","1220","1216"]},"Referring again to , it is assumed that the user selects the get print service hyperlink. The Web Browser  receives this input at step  and in response transmits a request for the Web content  to the Web server .","The Web server  receives this input and responds by transmitting the Document Print Web content  to the Web browser .","The Web Browser  receives the print Web content  and begins executing it at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIGS. 17 and 18","b":["1220","2014","1220","2202"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 19"],"b":["1414","2202","1414","2302","1414","2304"]},"It can be seen that, for example, if the first user  is presently logged into the personal computer , the extension  responds by retrieving target data # (stored in the second computer ). This is accomplished by transmitting appropriate HTTP requests for this data to the server . The server  responds by transmitting this data to the extension . Conversely, if the second user  is presently logged into the personal computer , the extension  responds by retrieving the set of target data #.","The extension  then operates to provide the retrieved target data to the Document Print Web Content  in an appropriate manner (step ).","Referring again to , the Web content  receives the retrieved target data (from the extension ) at step . In response, the Web content  causes the personal computer  to display a print dialog box with a print preview image (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 20","b":["2402","704","2206","2402","2404","2402"]},"Importantly, these options are based upon the capabilities of the printer . The print preview image that is displayed is based, in part, upon the retrieved target image (i.e., the target image # or the target image #) as well as the options selected.","Referring again to , the Web content  is assumed to receive the user input indicating that certain settings have been selected at step  and updates the dialog box  accordingly.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0106","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["2402","2502"]},"Referring once again to , it is assumed that Web content  receives input indicating the user has selected the print button . The Web content  responds to this input by generating a print job and by transmitting the print job to the Web server  (steps  and ). The print job includes the target data and also includes commands that cause the printer  to print the image according to the inputted settings.","The Web server  receives the print job and provides the print job to the printer control program . The printer control program  commands the print engine  to print the target image according to the settings described by the print job.","After the print job is transmitted to the printer, the Web content  displays a \u201cprint status page\u201d that shows the status of the print job in a dynamic fashion (step ). This is accomplished by the Web content  obtaining certain status information from the printer  regarding the printing of the print job (step ).","It is noted that the step  may be accomplished by using a number of techniques. For example, PML (Peripheral Management Language) polling may be used. Optionally, the techniques taught in the pending application entitled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Providing Print Job Status, may be used. That application is assigned the Ser. No. 09\/702,766 and was filed Nov. 1, 2000. That application is incorporated herein entirely by reference.","As the status information is received (step ) back from the printer , the Web content  updates the status page so as to reflect the updated information (step ). This process continues until the print job is completed (step ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0112"},"figref":"FIG. 22","b":["2602","2218","2602","2604","2606","2608","2604","2604"]},"The third field  describes certain problems with the current print job encountered during printing. For example, if the printer  reports that a paper jam has occurred, this information can be displayed in this third field.","Additionally, the status page  includes a pause button  and a continue button . If the pause button  is selected, the Web content  sends an appropriate message to the Web server  indicating that the printing of the present job should be paused.","The Web server  receives this message and communicates it to the printer control program . The control program  responds by pausing the printing of the present print job.","After the pause button  has been selected and the printing of the present print job has been paused, a user can then select the continue button . When the continue button is selected, the Doc. Print Web content  sends an appropriate message to the Web server  indicating printing should be resumed.","The Web server  receives this message and communicates it to the printer control program . The control program  responds by causing the printing of the present print job to resume.","With respect to , there is illustrated a more detailed example of an Internet imaging home page or print dialog box  that is displayed by a personal computer  () and is responsible for helping the user locate various other Web-based imaging devices and services, such as printer  () and services and options section . As shown, home page  displays a print preview image  that allows the user to preview the print image.","Also, document information section  is illustrated. Section  includes, but is not limited to, document selector menu (), document name (), document length (), and a document page shuttle controls (). Shuttle controls  allow the user to shuttle back and forth through the document by activating the page number control . The particular page number shown in section  is illustrated by display .","With respect to the services and options section , various services and options can be made available to the user. Included in section  under document services is a document assembly service. In this manner, the user can send the document to be printed to an outside document assembly service if, for example, the document is too large for in-house equipment.","With respect to the printers and printing services, the user may be able to select the choices of finding the local printers, finding print services, adding a printer manually to the list  of favorites, and clearing the favorites list . These would be very helpful services if, for example, the user does not have access to a printer which is capable of printing the document on the desired print media.","Finally, with respect to the options portion of the services and options section , this option would allow the user to interact with client-server system previously described.","It is to be understood that the various services and options shown in dialog box  are for illustrative purposes only. Those skilled in the art would recognize that many other services and options could be shown in dialog box  and, therefore, would be able to be utilized by the user.","After the user has reviewed the document or print preview image , the user can select a printer  to print the document. This is done by selecting a printer (left clicking a mouse conventionally connected to computer  (FIG.)). In this manner, browser  () of computer  interacts with server  () of printer , as previously discussed. Conventional sensors (not shown) connected to various parts of printer  conventionally provide feedback to server  to tell browser  and, ultimately the user, about the operating characteristics of printer . For example, the sensors could provide information as to the type and quantity of print media available in printer . Also, the sensors could tell the user if the printer is a monochrome or a color printer. The sensors could tell the user how much toner or other consumables are left in the printer. In short, the sensors could tell the user if the document to be printed, as shown in the print preview image , can actually be printed by printer  or should the user select another printer and determine if that other printer can print the document, as desired. If the user selects another printer, printing device or printing service, browser  interacts with the server of the other printer, printing device or printing service in the same manner, as discussed above. The server connected to that printer, printing device or printing service will relate information to the user regarding the capabilities of that other printer, printing device or printing service.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0125","num":"0125"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["2718","710","2718","2404","2704","2704","2708","2710","2713","2713","2714"]},"An illustration  of the type of printer to be used is provided. In this case, printer  is illustrated. A section  is provided that includes, but is not limited to, the number of copies to be made (), the paper source (), duplexing capabilities (), color printing (), and a print button (). Section  allows the user to select the number of copies to be printed at  by conventionally typing in and\/or scrolling the mouse of computer  () (for example) to the desired number of copies. Also, the paper source  can be selecting by scrolling the mouse (for example) to the desired paper source. Also, the user can opt for having the document duplexed by scrolling the mouse (for example) at . Also, the user can choose to have the document to be printed in color by clicking the mouse (for example) on the box at . It is to be understood that some of the various options on home page  will only be shown if the sensors on printer  detect that these features, print media, print color and the like are available on printer . Once the user is satisfied with the print preview, as evidenced by print preview image  and the capabilities of printer  to complete the print job, the user merely clicks the mouse (for example) on button  and the document will be printed by printer .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0127"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["2750","2750","2752","2754","2756","2758","2760","2762","2762","2410","2764"]},"Once given the above disclosure, many other features, modifications or improvements will become apparent to the skilled artisan. Such features, modifications or improvements are, therefore, considered to be a part of this invention, the scope of which is to be determined by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 25"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
