---
title: Multi-functional portable folding rocking chair
abstract: A rocking chair having an elongate flexible seat supported at opposite ends by a pair of oppositely inclined, diagonally disposed frames. Each frame includes a U-shaped tube interconnected connected by a plurality of cross members and is pivotally interconnected with the other at the sides of each intermediate the ends by pairs of upper and of lower siderails. The frames nest one within the other such that the chair may be folded into a compact unit for storage. A fold-out footrest nests within the other frames to act as a back support when the chair is used without the footrest deployed. A pair of wheels can be mounted to the front legs on reversible axles such that when the chair is pinned in the upright position the chair functions as a wheelchair. When the chair is in the folded position with the footrest deployed, the chair acts as a wheeled cart.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06843527&OS=06843527&RS=06843527
owner: 
number: 06843527
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20010301
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/014,062 filed Jan. 27, 1998 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6,354,657 on Mar. 12, 2002.","1. Field","The invention is in the field of portable collapsing or folding rocking chairs and chaise lounges for use indoors and outdoors such as for camping and which chair may also function as a backpack, cart, wheelchair, or cot.","2. State of the Art","Portable collapsing rocking chairs of the type which have a flexible rectangular seat supported at opposite ends by oppositely inclined, diagonally disposed frames interconnected by a pair of upper and lower chains are well known. The frames of these chairs each typically have a pair of parallel elongate side members interconnected and held in a spaced relationship by at least one cross member, one frame nesting within the other. The pairs of upper and lower chains interconnect the respective side members intermediate the ends thereof to form what is called a saddle hinge which allows the chair to be oscillated or rocked since there is no fixed pivot between the respective frames. Likewise, wheeled carts, and wheeled chairs are well known.","In U.S. Pat. No. 4,118,064 issued to Robeson is disclosed a wooden rocking chair wherein the upper ends of the elongate side members and the ends of cross members of each frame are held together by means of interfitting wedge and groove connections which allow disassembly of the frames so as to form a compact bundle for transport or storage. A stool of similar construction is also disclosed.","In U.S. Pat. No. 1,969,313 issued to C. E. Meeker is disclosed a wooden rocking chair wherein the elongate side members and the cross members of each frame are held together by means of the upper end of each side member being tapered to mate with tubular sockets at the ends of the upper cross members. One frame also has a lower cross member pivotally and releasibly connected at respective ends thereof to the lower portion of one frame such that the chair can be disassembled and the lower cross member folded to form a compact bundle for transport or storage.","In U.S. Pat. No. 4,733,905 issued to Buickerood et al. is disclosed a two-wheeled, non-rocking chair which has four U-shaped tubular metal frame members which form a folding frame. The individual frame members pivot relative to one another so as to additionally form a wheeled cart with elevated handle, a carrier for elongate objects, or be collapsed into a more compact unit for storage.","In U.S. Pat. No. 4,487,345 issued to Pierce et al. is disclosed a backpack having a wooden frame, a pack, and shoulder straps, wherein the frame unfolds to form a reclining chair which also functions as a stand for holding the pack in an upright position. The chair does not oscillate nor rock and has fixed reclining positions.","In U.S. Pat. No. 3,828,992 issued to Cerchione is disclosed a backpack having a tubular metal folding frame, a pack, and shoulder straps, wherein the frame unfolds to form a sleeping cot with the pack stowed there below. The frame has two elongate sections hingedly connected together by a short section with a flexible sleeping surface stretched therebetween. When used as a backpack one elongate section to which the shoulder straps are connected fits against the back of the user with the other long section to which the pack is attached spaced from and parallel thereto, the two being interconnected by the short section over the top of the pack.","Various types of chaise lounges having a single elongate seat which supports person head to foot are also known but none having the construction and features of the present invention.","In accordance with the invention, a folding rocking chair and chaise lounge of the type having a pair of oppositely inclined, diagonally disposed frames, one frame being of such width as to nest one within the other with the frames interconnected at the sides thereof by a pair of upper and lower siderails. Each frame has a pair of elongate side members held in a fixed, spaced relationship by one or more cross members. A rectangular, longitudinally flexible seat extends between and is connected at opposite ends thereof to cross members at the upper ends of the respective frames. A folding footrest may also be provided which likewise nests within the frames and which forms a chaise lounge when an extra-long seat is utilized. The footrest can be of adjustable length to accommodate persons of differing heights. The nesting of the frames allows the chair to be folded into a compact rectangular unit about two and one half inches thick for storage or transport, with the unit being maintained in the folded position by pins which fit into corresponding apertures in the respective frames.","The first frame, or backrest frame, comprises a pair of elongate side members laterally connected by one or more cross members, typically both upper and lower cross members, the upper portion of the backrest frame being adapted for receiving and supporting a user's back in conjunction with the flexible seat, and a lower portion which functions as the front legs of the chair. The second frame, or seat frame, comprises a pair of elongate side members laterally connected by one or more cross members, typically both upper and lower cross members, the upper portion of the seat frame being adapted for receiving and supporting a user's buttocks and legs in conjunction with the flexible seat, and a lower portion which function as the rear legs of the chair. The backrest frame and the seat frame are typically constructed from naturally finished or unfinished wood, particularly hardwoods such as oak or maple for strength and rigidity. The members of each frame are joined together such as by corrosion resistant stainless steel or zinc plated metal screws and may also be glued together for added strength. The frames may alternatively be made from metal, plastic, composites, or other similarly rigid types of material available in solid or tubular sections. The frames can also each be made from metal tubing or bar stock bent into a U-shape such that the side members and one or more cross members are integral therewith.","The backrest frame and seat frame are maintained in the oppositely inclined, diagonally disposed orientation by means of a pair of upper and a pair of lower siderails. The siderails are typically substantially rigid wooden members constructed from naturally finished or unfinished wood, particularly hardwoods such as oak or maple though metal, plastics, and composite materials may also be used. Each upper siderail is connected such as by using bolts and nuts or sleeved rivets, at one end to an upper portion of the respective backrest frame side member and at the opposite end to an upper portion of the respective seat frame side member. Each lower siderail is connected such as by using bolts and nuts or sleeved rivets, at one end to a lower portion of the respective backrest frame side member and at the opposite end to a lower portion of the respective seat frame side member. The substantially rigid upper and lower siderails are typically all the same length with their connection points to the respective frame side members in the same longitudinal position on the side members of the respective frames for the pair of upper siderails and for the pair of lower siderails. This configuration allows the chair to fold properly into a compact unit. While substantially rigid siderails are preferable, flexible siderails such as metal chains, nylon rope, and cables may be used, though the chair will not fold as easily and extra retaining pins may be necessary to hold the chair in the folded position. When flexible siderails are used such as chains, the effective length thereof can easily be changed such by attachment the desired number of links of the chain between a pair of hook connections attached to the respective frame side members. This allows the various chair positions to be achieved without having the multiple alternate attachment points for the siderails.","Since the backrest frame and the seat frame are not pivotally connected at a fixed point such as where the frames cross, a saddle hinge is formed wherein the effective pivot point can move relative to the frames so as to allow an oscillating or rocking motion to be effected by a user of the chair. As the chair is rocked from a forward position rearward, the angle of the respective backrest frame and the seat frame change from a relatively upright chair with a generally more vertical backrest frame and a generally more horizontal seat frame to a rearward reclining position with the backrest frame in a generally more horizontal position with the seat frame in a generally more vertical position. The chair can be held in one or more predetermined positions so as to not rock by providing apertures in the respective backrest frame and seat frame side members, which apertures are positioned so as to align when the chair is in the desired position such that a pin can be inserted into each pair of apertures. While the chair can be pinned in any functional position thereof including when the seat is horizontal, typically there are provided apertures in the respective side members for the chair to have at least a forward chair position, an intermediate chair position, and a reclining chair position.","The chair can be equipped to be rocking or fixed type chair with foot support by utilizing a fold-out footrest of fixed or adjustable length to which the seat is not attached and which nests within the backrest and seat frame and which is pinned in place such that when the chair is in the folded position it forms the same compact unit for storage and transport. The chair can be equipped to be a chaise lounge by using an extra-long seat which attaches to the foot support on the footrest rather than to the seat frame. The reclining chair may be used with the footrest in a deployed position wherein a padded foot support member pivotally adjusts to support a user's feet in the various chair positions or in a pinned and folded or stowed position wherein the foot support member serves as a padded back support for the user. The footrest has two versions primarily for aesthetic appeal, one with a generally rectangular frame and a second having a T-shaped frame both of which essentially function the same as a foot rest. The footrest frames may be made from wood or alternatively from metal, plastic, composites, or other similarly rigid types of material available in solid or tubular sections. The footrest frames can also each be made from metal tubing or bar stock bent into a U-shape such that the side members and one or more cross members or the foot support are integral therewith.","Either footrest may be maintained in an elevated position relative to the floor surface or ground by attaching one of the cross members of the backrest frame in such a position as to contact the footrest frame when the foot support of the footrest is at a comfortable user height for the majority of the chair positions. Multiple vertical positions may be attained by providing removably attached cross members with multiple positions therefor such that the footrest frame contacts the cross members when at different angles, depending on the position of the cross members. The cross members might be in one position when the chair is reclined, and the cross members moved to another position when in the forward chair position. Rubber or plastic pads are typically attached to the footrest frame or the backrest frame so as to act as a cushion between and prevent damage to the frames when the footrest is being lowered.","One or two support legs pivotally connected to the footrest, at a point along the length thereof may likewise be used to maintain the footrest in an elevated position. The support legs contact the floor to help to prevent the chair from tipping over as a person enters or exits the chair. This is a safety feature which works even when the support legs are at a shorter length than required for the particular chair position since as the person enters or exits the chair the legs are still able to touch the ground before an unstable position is reached. On the first version of the footrest, two support legs are used, one on each footrest frame side member, and on the second version one center support leg located between the longitudinal members is used. The support legs may span between the footrest frame completely to the ground to maintain the footrest at a given height above the ground in a particular chair position or may span only partially to act as an anti-tipping device. The support legs can be pivoted to a retracted position substantially parallel to the ground and held there such as by friction at the pivot, a clip, or a pin. The support legs may be of fixed length or of adjustable length with an extendible lower leg with a ground contacting pad such as to be capable of contacting the ground in multiple chair positions.","There are four versions of the rectangular, longitudinally flexible seat on which a user sits, the first three of which are typically made of cloth such as canvas or nylon and the fourth made of substantially rigid slats. Each of the versions of the seat are longitudinally flexible so as to form a comfortable seat which conforms to the back, legs, and buttocks of a user seated therein. The cloth version seats typically have a sheet of resilient foam core sandwiched between one folded-over or a pair of canvas sheets with a sewn seam around the perimeter thereof so as to completely encase the foam core. Alternatively, the seat may be constructed using a thicker open-cell type foam core and made airtight such as by using plastic coated cloth with a glued or heat-sealed perimeter seam and sealing air valve to form an air mattress such as the well known THERMOREST type air mattresses manufactured by several different companies. Air can be admitted or exhausted from the foam in such air mattress seat so as to customize the feel thereof. Also, a separate THERMOREST or other type of air mattress may be laid on top of any of the seat versions for added comfort and may be fixed or removably attached thereto such as by using VELCRO or other type of fastening means.","In the first version of the seat, the ends of the cloth seat are attached to one or more upper cross members of each frame such as by wrapping an end portion of the seat around the respective upper cross member and sewing it back to the seat so as to envelope the respective cross member. The respective cross members may be made to be removably attached such as by bolts and wingnuts to the respective side members so as to allow removal of the seat from the rest of the chair such as for laundering.","The second version of the seat is of substantially the same construction as the first version thereof, but has doubled-over cuff portions at each end thereof of sufficient width as to fit over the upper portion of the backrest and the seat frames including the respective upper cross members and the upper portion of the respective side members. This version of the seat is securely held in place by the cuffs yet may be easily removed by sliding the cuffs off the upper portions of the respective frames without necessitating the removal of any cross members.","The third version of the seat converts the rocking chair with footrest into a chaise lounge. This version of the seat is generally rectangular in shape but of longer length so as to extend from the backrest upper cross members to the footrest. The attachment of the seat to the respective upper cross members and footrest such as by using VELCRO loop pads glued to the upper cross members and to the footrest and VELCRO loop pads sewn or riveted to the footrest, though other methods of attachment to the upper backrest can be utilized such as described above and those same methods adapted to fit on the footrest.","The fourth version of the seat comprises a plurality of substantially rigid, laterally extending bars or slats, typically rectangular in cross-section and made of wood. The slats each have at least a pair of lateral apertures therethrough, one near each end thereof, which extend longitudinally relative to the frames. A flexible member, typically a nylon rope, extends through each aperture at one side of the slats with a pair of knots tied therebetween each, with a second flexible member extending through each aperture at the opposite end thereof with a pair of knots therebetween, the ends of each flexible member tied or otherwise connected to the respective backrest and seat upper cross members. The knots maintain the slats evenly spaced along the flexible member and allow greater flexibility of the seat. Other types of spacers may be used in place of the knots such as tubular spacers made of wood, metal, or plastic.","The chair may be equipped with a pair of wheels pivotally connected to the lower portion of the backrest frame on individual axles and which axles may be reversed so as to not extend from the chair when wheels are not required. The wheels are the rubber pneumatic type or the wooden type for more decorative use such as poolside, though most any type wheel including the plastic and solid rubber types will work.","The wheeled chair has four main uses, the first of which is to allow easier transport of the chair both in the folded position and when in the chair position. In the folded position a user merely grasps the upper portions of the folded backrest and seat frames, tilts the folded chair and pushes or pulls the chair to a new location. The lower portion of the backrest frame, or front legs thereof, may be made of such length as to extend beyond the outer diameter of the wheel when the folded chair is in a vertical position such that in such position the chair will rest on the front legs with the wheels off the ground so as to not inadvertently roll, and will roll only when tipped at a sufficient angle off of vertical for the wheels to touch the ground. When in the chair position, the wheels allow the chair to easily be moved by grasping and lifting the backrest frame such that the lower portion of the seat frame, or the rear legs, lift from the ground such that only the wheels contact the ground. After the chair is moved, the backrest frame is lowered such that the rear legs again contact the ground. If the support legs are deployed they along with a pair of straps connecting the backrest and seat frames help prevent the chair from tipping too far forward to a position wherein the chair might roll backwards on the wheels or tip. Also, the lower ends of the backrest frame side members touch the ground when the chair is tipped forward sufficiently so as to help prevent rolling of the chair on the wheels.","The second main use of the wheels is to allow the chair to be used as a wheeled hauler for carrying equipment and as a wheelchair for moving a person. The chair with wheels can be used to haul equipment placed on the seat or footrest thereof in any position. A wheelchair position is achieved by tilting the backrest frame forward into the upright chair position and locking it there by inserting a pair of locking pins into the apertures in the backrest and seat frame side members. As such, a person can be wheeled around quite easily with little effort.","The third main use of the wheels is to allow the chair, when equipped with the first version of the footrest, to be used as a cart such as to move heavy items. The cart position is achieved by opening or unfolding only the footrest while the backrest frame and the seat frame remain in a closed or folded position. A load is supported on the upper portion of the footrest frame with the aid of one or more removable flexible or rigid bands which may be placed laterally around the footrest frame so as to help support the load in those areas of the footrest frame which lack cross members. Substantially rigid cross members may also be built into the footrest frame if desired. The cart is tilted like a standard hand cart so as to lift the load onto the wheels for transport. If the first version of the adjustable position footrest mechanism is used, either position may be utilized depending on the desired angle between the backrest and seat frames with the footrest frame in the cart position. Optional short folding legs may be used at the ends of each footrest frame longitudinal member to prevent the footrest frame from touching and possibly being abraded by the ground.","The chair can also be equipped for hiking and camping by attaching a removable pack to the rear of the chair with removable shoulder straps which attach to an upper cross member of the seat frame and to a lower cross member of the backrest frame. A removable belt can also be attached to the backrest frame lower cross member to further secure the frames to the user. The pack is typically removably attached to the bottom surface of the seat by means such as VELCRO hook and loop pads to the bottom surface of the seat and the pack. The pack can be attached adjacent the area of the seat behind a person's back and shoulders when used as a chair or a backpack, or below a person's buttocks when used as a chair for easy access such as to beverages or other items held therein. The pack may also be removably attached to the top surface of the seat if desired. The pack may be used to hold such items as an umbrella, a mist bottle, water bottles, etc. An optional configuration especially for camping and hiking allows the frames and the siderails to telescope and collapse such that the overall length of the folded chair shortens and extends by up to about twelve inches or more.","Both wooden and tubular metal chairs can be constructed which utilize upper siderails which are of adjustable length relative to the backrest and seat frames. The tubular metal chair preferably utilizes U-shaped tubular members which integrally include the respective side members and one respective cross member for each of the backrest, seat, and footrest frames, along with another cross member connected across the open end of the respective U-shaped member. The upper siderails of the tubular metal chair is preferably of adjustable length relative to the backrest and seat frames by means of being of adjustable length, comprising first and second end portions which are longitudinally movable relative to each other such as by being tubes which closely telescope together, and being lockable in a fixed position relative to each other using an adjustment mechanism such as a spring clip disposed within an innermost of the first and second portions which includes a head that extends into a hole through a wall of the innermost of the first and second end portions which is selectively engageable through the hole into each of a plurality of linearly disposed holes of a wall of an outermost of the first and second portions to releasibly lock the first and second end portions in a plurality of linear positions.","On the wooden chair, the upper siderails are preferably of adjustable length relative to the backrest and seat frames by means of corresponding end portions of each upper siderail being of adjustable mounting position on one of the backrest and seat frames, preferably the backrest frame, using ratchet plates. A pair of elongate armrests can be being pivotally connected to the respective upper siderail at one end adjacent the backrest frame, and at the other end using a respective support mechanism, preferably a folding brace connected to the upper siderail to selectively retain the end of the respective armrest in an elevated and a lowered position.","Both the tubular metal and the wooden chairs preferably include a footrest, the tubular metal footrest typically comprising a U-shaped tubular member with a foot support pivotally connected across the open end thereof. The footrest can also be made of three telescoping tubular members comprising two tubular side members and a truncated U-shaped tubular cross member which interconnects the side members. The footrest is retained at the desired height of a plurality thereof by means of a pair of variable incline ratchet assemblies including a ratchet plate connecting the footrest to the backrest frame. A pivotally mounted U-shaped release plate allows release of the ratchet plate without necessitating gripping in hand the ratchet plate directly. The wooden embodiment utilizes a wooden footrest and similar variable incline ratchet assemblies.","While the chair shown herein accommodates a single user, the respective frames and seat can be made wider and stronger such as to accommodate larger persons as well as two or more persons sitting in the chair at the same time. Likewise, multiple chairs can be linked together side-by-side or otherwise so as to provide seating for multiple persons.","The overall structure of the folding rocking chair and chaise lounge first embodiment is best seen in  wherein is shown a backrest frame , a seat frame , and a footrest frame .","Backrest frame  comprises a pair of elongate side members  and , a pair of upper cross members  and , and a pair of lower cross members  and . All of the members of backrest frame  are typically made from hardwood, and are attached together such as by screws , except for cross members  and  which are removably attached such as by bolts  and wingnuts  inserted through a plurality of apertures either  and  or  and , and either  and  or  and  (FIG. ), to maintain footrest frame  at one or the other of two elevational heights as will be explained subsequently. The lower portion of each of side members  and  comprise front legs  and , respectively.","Seat frame  comprises a pair of elongate side members  and , a pair of upper cross members  and , and a lower cross member . All of the members of seat frame  are typically made from hardwood, and are attached together such as by screws . The lower portion of each of side members  and  comprise rear legs  and , respectively.","Footrest frame  comprises a pair of elongate side members  and , a pair of lower cross members  and . All of the members of footrest frame  are typically made from hardwood, and are attached together such as by screws . A foot support  is pivotally attached to footrest frame side members  and  as by screws  and washers  (FIG. ). Foot support  is held in a stowed position parallel to side members  and  while not in use by a pair of conventional spring-loaded plungers  one each fitted into apertures  and  of footrest side members  and , respectively, which selectively mate with one or the other pair of matching detentes  or  in foot support  (FIG. ). A pair of recessed apertures  and  extend through footrest side members  and . A pair of elongate footrest legs  selectively support footrest frame , each having an upper aperture  and which are pivotally attached to footrest side members  and  by means of bolts  extending through the respective apertures  and  or  and  and removably secured by wingnuts . A pair of rubber or plastic pads  are attached to each of footrest side members  and  so as to cushion the contact with the backrest lower cross member  in each of two positions (FIG. ).","Backrest frame  and seat frame  are connected together so as to form the basic rocking chair by a pair of upper siderails  and a pair of lower siderails . Upper and lower siderails  and  are typically substantially rigid members. Each of upper siderails  have a recessed aperture  which aligns with an aperture  or  in seat frame side members  and , respectively, with a washer  therebetween, and through which a bolt  is disposed and removably held in place by a wingnut . Each of upper siderails  also have a recessed aperture  which aligns with a recessed aperture  or  in backrest frame side members  and , respectively, with an end of a retaining strap  having a aperture (not shown) therebetween and through which a bolt  is disposed and held in place by a nut  (FIG. ).","Each of lower siderails  have a recessed aperture  which aligns with a recessed aperture  or  in seat frame side members  and , respectively, with the opposite end of retaining strap  therebetween, and through which a bolt  is disposed and removably held in place by a nut . Each of lower siderails  also have an axle aperture  which aligns with an axle aperture  and  in backrest frame side members  and , respectively, and with axle apertures  and  in footrest frame side members  and , and through which a sleeve or bushing  and a bolt or threaded axle  is disposed (FIG. ). A pair of wheels , typically of the rubber pneumatic type, are disposed on threaded axles  with washers  and retained thereon by wingnuts . Wheels  are used in certain chair configurations and may be removed for storage and threaded axles  may be reversed such that they do not protrude from the sides of the chair (FIG. ).","When upper and lower siderails  and  are substantially rigid members, the placement of the connections thereof to the respective side members must be designed such that the chair folds properly and opens to the desired positions. In such case, typically the attachment points of the pair of upper siderails  and the pair of lower siderails  to the respective backrest frame and seat frames  and  are substantially the same on each side of the chair such that the respective pairs of siderails are parallel. Likewise, the distance between apertures  and  of upper siderails  and between apertures  and  of lower siderails  will typically be substantially equal, with upper and lower siderails  and  being generally parallel to the ground in the chair position to allow the chair to fold up properly. Other configurations wherein the backrest frame  and seat frame  properly fold and nest together with upper and lower siderails  and  are also possible.","Once the chair is folded, a pair of pins such as ring handled, spring ball bearing pins  are inserted through the respective apertures  and  of seat frame  side members  and , apertures  of lower siderails , apertures  and  of backrest frame  side members  and , apertures  and  of footrest frame , and apertures  of footrest legs  so as to retain the chair in the closed or stowed position (FIG. ). By removing pins  the chair can be easily be unfolded, especially when the upper and lower siderails  and  are substantially rigid. If upper siderails  and\/or lower siderails  are flexible, an additional pin or pair of pins (not shown) inserted into additional coaxial apertures (not shown) through the respective frames , , and  and spaced therefrom may be needed to maintain the same in the proper folded position. Each of the various apertures wherein members pivot relative to one another or wherein pins may be inserted may be made larger such that a metal or plastic bushing (not shown) may be pressfit or glued therein so as to provide a more precise fit and eliminate wear to the respective member, particularly when the members are wooden.","Referring to , a rectangular, longitudinally flexible seat  has a head end , a foot end , and typically has a canvas top layer  and a canvas bottom layer  which surround a padded core  such as sheet foam, which extends for most of the length thereof. Head end  is retained in place by a portion thereof  which contains no padded core  and which is partially wrapped around backrest frame upper cross member , completely wrapped around cross member , and retained such as by a riveted or sewn seam . Foot end  is retained in place by a portion thereof , part of which contains padded core , which is partially wrapped around seat frame upper cross member , with padded core  acting to cushion a user's legs, completely wrapped around cross member , and retained such as by a riveted or sewn seam . Seat  is typically of such a length as to conform to a person's sitting posture in a chair position. Seat  is typically of such a width as to span most of the distance between backrest frame side members  and  so as to provide a comfortable width seat. An airtight version of the seat (not shown) can be made similarly for use with the chair such as by using plastic coated cloth such as canvas with a glued or heat-sealed perimeter seam and sealing air valve to selectively add or exhaust air. A resilient, thicker open-cell foam is preferable for such use since air is admitted through the air valve by the foam core expanding. Likewise, air is exhausted therefrom by compressing the foam core to expel excess air. This allows the user thereof to customize the feel of the seat with less air providing a more flexible seat and with more air providing a stiffer seat.","Referring to , there is shown the unfolded chair with footrest frame  extended and with the relative motions of backrest frame , seat frame , footrest frame , upper siderails , and lower siderails  shown as the chair rocks from a rear position (solid lines) to a forward position (dotted lines). Straps , shown in a relaxed position, limit the forward travel of backrest  to help prevent the chair from tipping over in the forward direction. Foot support  is shown in a horizontal position with spring-loaded plungers  disengaged from detentes  where it would normally be stored with pad  against seat surface  and footrest frame pinned in place so as to provide back support to the user. In the stored position foot support member  can also be stored with ball plungers  engaging detentes  which positions pad  away from the seat surface.","Referring to , each of the side members  and  have a plurality of lateral apertures therethrough. The apertures closest to the seat frame upper cross members are apertures  and  to which upper siderails  are typically connected. The chair seat frame  typically also has three other pairs of coaxial apertures  and ,  and , and  and  through seat frame side members  and , respectively (FIG. ). The preferred backrest frame  also has two other pairs of coaxial apertures  and , and  and  through backrest frame side members  and , respectively, with all of the these apertures which allow positioning of the chair in various operational positions.","The chair is shown in  in the cot position such as for sleeping, wherein the end of each of upper siderails  are moved from apertures  and , respectively, to apertures  and . In such a position seat  is typically substantially taut so as to function as a generally horizontal sleeping surface. The tautness thereof can be adjusted by providing a lengthened or shortened seat . The chair may be pinned in the cot position by providing suitable apertures (not shown) in backrest frame side members  and  and in seat frame side members  and . When the chair is used as a cot, footrest frame  may be deployed and tilted appropriately to support the user's legs as shown so as to form a full length cot or it may be stowed within the backrest frame  so as to form a three-quarter length cot. In the cot position, footrest frame  is typically at the lower of the two elevational heights so as to be at substantially the same vertical height as is seat  for comfort reasons. Adjustable legs  () or fixed length legs  () may be deployed when in the full cot position for added stability though such deployment is not necessary.","Referring to , therein is shown the means by which footrest frame  is angled up or down so as to change the vertical height of footrest frame  and foot support . In the raised position of footrest frame , backrest frame lower cross member  is secured by bolts  in apertures  and  while backrest lower cross member  is secured by bolts  in apertures  and  of backrest side members  and , respectively, such that footrest lower cross member  contacts backrest frame lower cross member  and the lower pair of pads  on footrest frame side members  and  contact backrest cross member  to distribute the load therebetween and hold footrest frame  in an upper vertical position (FIG. ). In the lower position of footrest frame , backrest frame lower cross member  is secured by bolts  in apertures  and  while backrest lower cross member  is secured by bolts  in apertures  and  such that footrest lower cross member  contacts backrest frame lower cross member  and the upper pair of pads  on footrest frame side members  and  contact backrest cross member  to distribute the load therebetween to hold footrest frame  in a lower vertical position (FIG. ). Such change in the position of backrest frame cross member  is easily made by removing wingnuts , removing bolts , and reattaching cross member . The length of footrest frame  may also be changed by moving axles  from apertures  and  of footrest side members  and , respectively, to either apertures  and  or apertures  and  so as to accommodate shorter people and children.","In all of the positions shown the chair has an oscillating or rocking function. In some instances, it might be desired to restrain the rocking. In such cases spring ball bearing pins  () may be inserted into pairs of apertures in backrest frame side members  and  and seat frame side members  and .  illustrates the chair as restrained in a semi-reclining position wherein pins  are disposed in the pair of apertures  and , and the pair of apertures  and  of seat frame  and backrest frame , respectively. In  is illustrated a full reclining position wherein spring ball bearing pins  are disposed in the pair of apertures  and , and the pair of apertures  and  of seat frame  and backrest frame , respectively. Likewise, the cot position of  may be restrained from rocking by adding additional apertures (not shown) positioned appropriately in side members , , , and  and pinning using spring ball bearing pins . Foot support  may be used as a small table to hold a food plate or other articles thereon, particularly useful when the chair is pinned in an upright position such as in FIG. .","Footrest frame  is relatively rigid in its unfolded or deployed state as supported on pads  by cross member  (FIGS.  and ). There may, however, be cases wherein greater footrest rigidity is desired. In such cases, the use of fixed length legs  () can be used to add such rigidity. However, such legs  only work if they are of such a length that which corresponds with the particular chair position desired. However,  illustrate how the length of legs required can vary drastically between the various chair positions. In such cases, adjustable length legs may be used to remedy the situation.","Referring to , an adjustable length leg  comprises an outer member  with an upper aperture , which outer member  is typically pivotally and removably attached to footrest frame outer members  and  such as by a bolt  and wingnut  as fixed length legs  (FIGS.  and ). A cylindrical aperture  extends for at least a portion of the length of outer member  with an internally threaded insert  pressfit therein. An inner leg  having an externally threaded rod  and a ground contacting floor pad , is threaded into insert  in outer member . The effective length of leg  can be adjusted by threading rod  further into or out of outer member .","Alternately, an adjustable length leg  as illustrated in  may be used. Leg  has an outer member  with an upper aperture , which outer member  is typically mounted to footrest frame  in the same manner as outer member . An aperture  extends for at least a portion of the length of outer member . An inner leg  having a rod  of such size as to closely pass through aperture  and a ground contacting floor pad , is slidably disposed within aperture . A plurality of crosswise apertures  extend through rod  each of which are selectively positionable in alignment with coaxial apertures  and  in the lower part of outer member . A pin such as ring handle, spring ball bearing pin  is inserted therethrough so as to change the effective length of leg .","When the chair is equipped with wheels () there are several special uses for the chair. For example, in  the chair configured as a wheel chair such as for providing ease of moving the chair. Legs  and  of backrest frame side members  and  contact the ground as the chair is tipped forward to help prevent the chair from rolling backwards when the chair is tipped forward such as when entering or exiting the chair. The chair equipped with wheels can be used for moving a person injured such as while backpacking, an elderly person, or overly exhausted person in need of assistance moving about. In this configuration the chair also functions as a wheeled hauler to transport gear placed on seat . This is the same chair position as in  wherein the chair is restrained by pinning a non-rocking, semi-reclining position except for the stowed footrest and the addition of pneumatic rubber wheels. Typically wide pneumatic rubber tires are used so as to enable easier transport through soft surfaces such as sand without getting bogged-down therein. When backpacking the wheels are typically removed and the axles reversed so as not to protrude from the frame (FIG. ). The tires may be tied to a chair frame and the pins  packed such that the wheel chair is available should the need arise while backpacking.","The chair with wheels can also function as a hand truck or cart such as for hauling camping equipment from an automobile to the camp site which cart is illustrated in FIG. . In such a position, backrest frame  and seat rest frame  are in the folded position with footrest frame  in the deployed position and legs  are in the stowed position. A pair of elongate flexible bands , typically having VELCRO hook and loop pads (not shown) attached to the respective ends thereof, are wrapped around footrest frame . Bands  can be positioned where needed on footrest frame  to help support the load carried on the footrest frame . A pair of end support legs  may be pivotally attached to footrest frame side members  and  opposite wheels  so as to maintain footrest frame  off the ground so as to help prevent unsightly scuffing thereof which may be especially visible in other chair positions. Each of end support legs  has a center aperture  and is pivotally mounted to the respective footrest frame side members  and  such as by bolts  disposed in apertures  and  of footrest side members  and , respectively. Each of end support legs  may be placed in a deployed, ground-contacting position (dotted lines) or in a stowed position (solid lines) by means of wingnuts . A pair of safety pins (not shown) such as the type pins  () may be inserted one in each of apertures  and  through footrest frame side members  and  after footrest  is deployed so as to prevent backrest frame  and seat frame  from falling from the vertical position and injuring someone. The safety pins bear against backrest frame side members  and  and possibly also against lower siderails  to prevent such falling. The cart is used by loosening wingnuts , pivoting end support legs  into the vertical operational position, and tightening wingnuts . After adjusting bands  to support a load, the load such as camping gear is placed on footrest frame . Soft gear such as blankets and towels or hard gear such as tent posts can be carried within the loop  formed by seat  while in the cart position or while in any of the non-chair positions including the completely folded position with wheels and in the backpack position without wheels. The cart is then tilted backwards off of legs  and  of backrest frame side members  and  by holding the cart with one of the user's feet and pivoted by pulling on backrest frame  such that the load is supported on wheels  and wheeled to its destination. Once the load has been transported to its destination, the reverse procedure is used to unload the cart. As the cart is tipped forward to unload, legs  and  again contact the ground and lift the wheels  off of the ground so as to stop rolling of the cart. This function serves as a safety feature to prevent unwanted rolling of the cart during loading and unloading of the cart.","The angle between the backrest frame  and footrest frame  can be set at two positions if such feature is included in the chair function.  illustrates a first angular position for footrest frame  corresponding to FIG. .  illustrates a second angular position for footrest frame  corresponding to , showing the angle between backrest frame  and footrest frame  increased by moving footrest cross member  to the lower position. This alternate angular position may be more comfortable for a shorter person to transport a load using the cart.","There are several alternate versions of some chair components from those previously described, the first of which is the seat. The seat as illustrated in  wraps around backrest frame cross members  and , and likewise around seat frame cross members  and , all of which cross members are attached such as by screws . Thus, if it is desired to remove seat  such as for laundering, the aforementioned cross members, or at least cross members  and  must be unscrewed from their respective backrest and seat frames  and  to remove them from seat  which process is time consuming. Alternatively, those same cross members may be attached by bolts and wingnuts (not shown) which would expedite the process.","As another alternative, a second version seat  is illustrated in , , and . Seat  is rectangular, longitudinally extending cloth seat similar to seat  (FIG. ), with a head end , a foot end , and similar canvas top and bottom layers  and  surrounding an enclosed padded core . Head end  is held in place by a folded over, add-on cuffed portion  which is wider than the portion of seat  between head and foot ends  and , and which is riveted or sewn such as at seam . Cuffed portion  which does not contain any portion of padded core , has riveted or sewn seams  and  so as to form a backrest frame receiving pocket  into which backrest frame upper cross members  and  removably fit along with the upper portions of backrest frame side members  and  each of which protrude through an aperture  and , respectively. Foot end  has a folded over, add-on cuffed portion  which is likewise wider than the portion of seat  between head and foot ends  and  and which is riveted or sewn such as at seam . Cuffed portion , part of which contains a portion of padded core , has riveted or sewn seams  and  so as to form a seat frame receiving pocket  into which seat frame upper cross members  and  removably fit along with the upper portions of backrest frame side members  and . For added user comfort, the cuffed seat (not shown) could be made wherein the a cuffed end of the seat fits over only the upper ends of the seat frame side members  and  and wherein seat cross members  and  are moved from the end of seat frame  and\/or removed therefrom such that the seat conforms to and cradles a user's legs rather than being held substantially flat by cross members  and .","A third version extra-long seat  is shown in  which converts the chair to a full-length chaise lounge. Seat  extends from backrest upper cross members  and  to foot support  and pad . Seat  is a rectangular, longitudinally extending cloth seat similar to seat  (FIG. ), with a head end , a foot end , and similar canvas top and bottom layers  and  surrounding an enclosed padded core (not shown). Seat  is typically removably attached to the chair such by VELCRO hook pads , , and  affixed such as by riveting or sewing to head and foot ends  and , respectively, and VELCRO loop pads , , and  affixed such as by adhesives to backrest upper cross members  and , and to foot support pad , respectively. Alternatively, foot support pad  may be omitted and loop pad  attached directly to foot support . Seat  drapes over but is typically not attached to seat frame upper cross members  and . While this particular version of the seat is removable, the other three versions of the seat may be made longer and the foot end adapted to mate with the foot support member so as to form a chaise lounge.","A fourth version seat  is shown in . Seat  differs from seats  and  as it does not comprise canvas or other cloth with a foam core, but rather comprises a plurality of spaced apart, laterally extending substantially rigid slats  each typically made of wood with a substantially rectangular cross section. Each of slats  typically has a pair of laterally extending apertures  and  therethrough, one adjacent each respective end thereof, and through each of which extends an elongate flexible member, typically nylon ropes  and , respectively, having a plurality of knots  and , respectively, which maintain slats  in the spaced relationship. First ends  and  of ropes  and , respectively, are attached to one or both of backrest frame upper cross members  and  such as by tying thereto. Second ends  and  of ropes  and , respectively, are attached to one or both of seat frame upper cross members  and  such as by tying thereto. Other types of elongate flexible members may also be used such as ropes made from other materials, cables, or even chains with spacing of the slats maintained by a plurality of tubular or other type of spacers (not shown) in place of knots  and . Also, a single rope, cable, or chain may be used in place of ropes  and , such that the free ends thereof are attached to an upper cross member with a loop thereof attached to the upper cross member at the opposite end of seat .","An alternate version wheel  is shown in  which is primarily used for decorative purposes such as around a pool to match the appearance of slat seat , especially when wooden natural finish or unfinished slats are used. Wheel  is capable of the same functions as rubber wheel  and is typically made from a plurality of boards  and  which are naturally finished or unfinished for maximum decorative appeal, though a solid wood or plywood disc could also be used. Wheel  has bushings or ball bearings (not shown) in the center thereof and mounts to axle  in the same manner as wheel  (FIGS.  and ). An optional rubber tread (not shown) can be secured to the outer periphery of wheel  to cushion the ride thereof against the ground.","An alternate version of footrest frame  is illustrated in , , and , which typically directly interchanges with footrest frame . Footrest frame  comprises a pair of longitudinal members  and , a pair of cross members  and , and a pair of end members  and  attached together such as by screws . End members  and  have axle apertures  and , respectively, through which bushing  and axle  extend so as to attach footrest frame  to the chair as is footrest frame . Alternatively, bushings  and axles  may extend through apertures  and  or apertures  and  or apertures  and  to shorten footrest frame  for shorter people and children. The box structure formed by cross members  and , and end members  and , together with the spaced relationship of longitudinal members  forms the reasonably rigid structure of frame .","A pivotable foot support  having pad  affixed to the top thereof and a pair of brackets  attached to the bottom thereof using screws  is pivotally mounted to footrest frame  by means of bolt  inserted through a pair of apertures  in brackets , a pair of apertures  and  in longitudinal members  and , respectively, and through an aperture  in a block  sandwiched between longitudinal members  and  and secured thereto by means of wingnut . A bolt  extends through apertures  and  in longitudinal members  and , and aperture  in block , and is secured by nut . A fixed or adjustable height leg such as adjustable height leg  can be attached to footrest frame  by means of bolt  inserted into apertures  and  of longitudinal members  and aperture  of adjustable leg  and secured by wingnut  (, , and ). The use of block  allows longitudinal members  and  to be firmly held together by fully tightened bolt  and nut  while bolts  and , both with wingnuts , can be loosened then tightened to hold adjustable leg  and foot support , respectively, in the desired position. Foot support  is typically used in the solid line position, and is stowed in the dotted line position (FIG. ). When footrest frame  is in the stowed position pins  () are inserted through apertures  and  of end members  and , respectively, to secure footrest frame  in the stowed position.","The angle of footrest frame  can be changed in the same manner as footrest frame  by moving backrest lower cross member  so as to restrict the downward movement of footrest frame end members  and . A pair of elongate pads  shown in  are mounted to each of longitudinal members  and  using screws  which can be used with either of footrest frames  and  in place of pads  (FIGS.  and ).","The chair can be equipped for backpacking as shown in . The chair is shown in the folded position with each of pins  engaging backrest frame , seat frame , lower siderails , and footrest frame . A pair of shoulder straps  each have a strap  with an upper end  and a lower end  with upper end  having removable holding means such as a VELCRO loop pad  and a VELCRO hook pad  sewn thereto. Upper end  can thus be looped over seat frame upper cross member  or  and pads  and  engaged to removably hold straps  thereto. Lower end  has a loop  which is of such size to allow backrest frame lower cross member  to be passed therethrough, which loop is held by rivets or sewn seams . Shoulder straps  can be assembled to and removed from lower cross member  by removing wingnuts  and removing lower cross member . Each of shoulder straps  also have a pad  which may be tubular in cross section and movable along strap  so as to accommodate various size persons, or it may be fixed as by sewing or riveting thereto. A belt  may be used along with shoulder straps  to aid in stabilizing the chair. Belt  comprises first and second belts  and  adjustably held together by a standard type belt buckle . Each of first and second belts  and  have a free end  and , respectively, each of which have an end aperture  and , respectively. Belt  is removably attached to the chair by free ends  and  being sandwiched between backrest frame lower cross member  and backrest frame side members  and , respectively, with bolts  passing through the respective apertures  and . When backpacking foot support  or  with attached pad  can pivotally adjust to the angle of the user's back and shoulders so as to cushion and provide greater comfort to the user along with additional support.","A canvas or nylon pack , particularly useful for back-packing and camping may be permanently or removably attached to the chair. The design of the pack is not critical and custom designed packs or standard store-bought packs can be adapted for use thereon. A typical pack  has an upper flap , a pouch , and lower pocket , an umbrella loop , and is removably attached to seat  as by a VELCRO loop pad  riveted or sewn laterally across seat  and a VELCRO hook pad  riveted or sewn to upper flap  (, , and ). Pouch  has a hinged top  connected to a pouch body  by means of a zipper  half of which is sewn to each of top  and body  around about three quarters of the perimeter thereof. Pouch top  is hingedly attached to pouch body  such as at hinge portion  of pouch . A smaller pouch or pocket  may be attached to pouch  to hold small items. Lower pocket  can be used for larger items to which quick access is desired but which are too large to fit within pocket . An umbrella (not shown) can be inserted and snugly held in umbrella loop . Likewise cart bands  may be stored in one of the pouches or pockets. Other designs of permanently attached and removable packs may include pockets for other commonly used camping and backpacking items such as magazines, compact disc player, mist bottles, etc.","A second embodiment of the chair specially designed for backpacking with frames that telescope and partially collapse is illustrated in , , , and . The overall structure of comprises a backrest frame , a seat frame , a footrest frame , upper siderails , and lower siderails . All of the frames and siderails are typically made from aluminum for light weight, though other metals such as stainless steel, plastics, or composites may likewise be used in their construction.","Backrest frame  comprises a pair of elongate telescoping side members  and . Backrest frame side member  comprises a center tube , an upper side bar , a lower sidebar , and a pair of externally threaded spring-loaded plungers . Upper sidebar  and lower sidebar  have threaded apertures  and , respectively, into each of which is threaded a spring-loaded plunger  with the ball thereof  extending slightly from the respective aperture (FIGS.  and ). Upper sidebar  and lower sidebar  are sized such that each closely fits within center tube  at opposite ends thereof. Center tube  has a pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in upper sidebar  to catch and another pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in lower sidebar  to catch. The distance between apertures  and  and between apertures  and  is typically about six inches so as to still accommodate the other features of the chair which results in a total twelve inch reduction in length of telescoping side member  from an extended position to a retracted position.","Backrest frame side member  similarly comprises a center tube , an upper sidebar , a lower sidebar , and another pair of externally threaded spring-loaded plungers . Upper sidebar  and lower sidebar  have threaded apertures  and , respectively, into each of which is threaded a spring-loaded plunger  with the ball thereof  extending slightly from the respective aperture (FIGS.  and ). Upper sidebar  and lower sidebar  are sized such that each closely fits within center tube  at opposite ends thereof. Center tube  has a pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in upper sidebar  to catch and another pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in lower sidebar  to catch. The distance between apertures  and  and between apertures  and  is likewise typically about six inches which results in a total twelve inch reduction in length of telescoping side member  from an extended position to a retracted position.","Backrest frame  further comprises a pair of upper cross members  and  and a pair of lower cross members  and . All of the cross members are typically tubing and attached to telescoping side members  and  such as by bolts  and nuts , except for cross members  and  which are removably attached such as by bolts  and wingnuts . The lower portion of each of side members  and  form front legs  and , respectively.","Seat frame  comprises a pair of elongate telescoping side members  and . Seat frame side member  comprises a center tube , an upper sidebar , and an externally threaded spring-loaded plunger . Upper sidebar  has a threaded aperture  into which is threaded a spring-loaded plunger  with the ball thereof  extending slightly from therefrom (FIGS.  and ). Upper sidebar  is sized such as to closely fit within center tube  at an end thereof. Center tube  has a pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in upper sidebar  to catch. The distance between apertures  and  is typically about six inches and results in a six inch reduction in length of side member  from an extended position to a retracted position.","Seat frame side member  comprises a center tube , an upper sidebar , and an externally threaded spring-loaded plunger . Upper sidebar  has a threaded aperture  into which is threaded a spring-loaded plunger  with the ball thereof  extending slightly from therefrom (FIGS.  and ). Upper sidebar  is sized such as to closely fit within center tube  at an end thereof. Center tube  has a pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in upper sidebar  to catch. The distance between apertures  and  is typically about six inches and results in a six inch reduction in length of telescoping side member  from an extended position to a retracted position.","Seat rest frame  further comprises a pair of upper cross members  and  and a lower cross members . All of the cross members are typically tubing, and all are attached to telescoping side members  and  such as by bolts  and nuts . The lower portion of each of side members  and  form front legs  and , respectively.","Footrest frame  comprises a pair of elongate telescoping side members  and . Side member  comprises a center tube , a lower sidebar , and an externally threaded spring-loaded plunger . Lower sidebar  has a threaded aperture  into which is threaded a spring-loaded plunger  with the ball thereof  extending slightly from therefrom. Lower sidebar  is sized such as to closely fit within center tube  at an end thereof. Center tube  has a pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in lower sidebar  to catch. The distance between apertures  and  is typically about six inches and results in a six inch reduction in length of side member  from an extended position to a retracted position.","Footrest frame side member  comprises a center tube , a lower sidebar , and an externally threaded spring-loaded plunger . Lower sidebar  has a threaded aperture  into which is threaded a spring-loaded plunger  with the ball thereof  extending slightly from therefrom (FIGS.  and ). Lower sidebar  is sized such as to closely fit within center tube  at an end thereof. Center tube  has a pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in lower sidebar  to catch. The distance between apertures  and  is typically about six inches and results in a six inch reduction in length of side member  from an extended position to a retracted position.","Footrest frame  further comprises a pair of lower cross members  typically of square tubular construction, inside the ends of each of which is attached such as by brazing, welding, or pressfitting an internally threaded square plug . Lower cross members  are attached to telescoping side members  and  such as by bolts  disposed in recessed apertures  and  in lower sidebars  and , respectively. A foot support , typically an aluminum plate, is pivotally attached to footrest frame center tubes  and  as by bolts , one each disposed in each group of recessed aperture , aperture , aperture , and recessed aperture , aperture , aperture  with washers  therebetween. Foot support  is held in a stowed position while not in use by first or second pairs of spring-loaded plungers  one fitted into each of plunger apertures , , , and  of foot support  with the ball  of each extending therefrom. A pair of matching apertures  and  in center tubes  and , respectively, adapted to selectively engage one or the other pairs of balls  of spring-loaded plungers  to maintain foot support  in a stowed position.","There are two pairs of apertures, recessed aperture  and aperture , and recessed aperture  and aperture , through the walls of center tubes  and , respectively. A pair of elongate footrest legs  each having an upper aperture  are pivotally attached to footrest center tubes  and  by means of bolts  extending through the respective apertures  and , or  and , being removably secured by wingnuts . A rubber or plastic pad  or a pair of pads  are attached to each of footrest lower bars  and  using bolts  so as to cushion the contact between the same with backrest lower cross member .","Backrest frame  and seat frame  are connected together to form a basic rocking chair by a pair of telescoping upper and lower siderails  and , respectively. Each of upper siderails  comprise a center tube , an upper sidebar , and an externally threaded spring-loaded plunger . Upper sidebar  has a threaded aperture  into which is threaded a spring-loaded plunger  with the ball thereof  extending slightly from therefrom (FIGS.  and ). Upper sidebar  is sized such as to closely fit within center tube  at an end thereof. Center tube  has a pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in upper sidebar  to catch. The distance between apertures  and  is typically about six inches to accommodate the other features of the chair. This results in a six inch reduction in length of telescoping upper siderail  from an extended position to a retracted position.","Each of upper siderail upper sidebars  have an aperture  which aligns with an aperture  and  in seat frame upper sidebars  and , respectively, with a washer  therebetween, and through which a bolt  is disposed and removably held in place by a wingnut . Each of upper siderails  also have a recessed aperture  and an aperture  which align with a recessed aperture  and aperture  or recessed aperture  and aperture  in backrest frame center tubes  and , respectively, with an end of a retaining strap  therebetween, and through which a bolt  is disposed and held in place by a nut .","Each of lower siderails  comprise a center tube , a lower sidebar , and an externally threaded spring-loaded plunger . Lower sidebar  has a threaded aperture  into which is threaded a spring-loaded plunger  with the ball thereof  extending slightly from therefrom (FIGS.  and ). Lower sidebar  is sized such as to closely fit within center tube  at an end thereof. Center tube  has a pair of apertures  and  through a wall thereof for ball  of spring-loaded plunger  in lower sidebar  to catch. The distance between apertures  and  is typically about six inches and results in a six inch reduction in length of telescoping lower siderail  from an extended position to a retracted position.","Each of telescoping lower siderails  lower sidebars  have an axle aperture  which aligns with an axle aperture  or  in backrest frame lower sidebars  and , respectively, and with axle apertures  and  in footrest frame lower sidebars  and , respectively, and with washers  therebetween, and through which bushing  and threaded axle  are disposed with washers  and retained thereon by wingnuts . Alternatively, apertures  and  or apertures  and  may be used so as to shorten footrest frame  such as for short people and children. Also, each of footrest frame lower sidebars  and  have an aperture  and  therethrough, respectively. A pair of safety pins (not shown) such as the type pins  () may be inserted one in each of apertures  and  through footrest frame lower sidebars  and  after footrest  is deployed so as to prevent backrest frame  and seat frame  from falling from the vertical position and injuring someone when the chair is used as a cart. The safety pins bear against backrest frame lower sidebars  and  and possibly also against each of lower siderails lower sidebars  to prevent such falling. Each of lower siderails  also have a recessed aperture  and an aperture  which align with a apertures  and  or apertures  and  in seat frame center tubes  and , respectively, with an end of a retaining strap  therebetween, and through which a bolt  is disposed and held in place by a nut .","The distance between apertures  and  of telescoping upper siderails  and between apertures  and  or  of telescoping lower siderails  are the same in the extended and the contracted positions such that the chair can fold and collapse to the position shown in  pair of ring handled, spring ball bearing pins  are inserted through the respective apertures  and  or  and  of seat frame center tube  and , apertures  and  of lower siderail center tube , apertures  and  or  and  of backrest frame center tubes  and , and apertures  and  of footrest frame lower sidebars  and  so as to retain the chair in the closed or stowed position. By removing pins  and extending the telescoping sections the chair can be unfolded.","The same rectangular, longitudinally flexible seat  () or the other versions thereof may be attached to the chair with the head end being held in place by a portion thereof is partially wrapped around backrest frame upper cross member , completely around cross member , and held such as by a sewn or riveted seam. The foot end is held in place by a portion thereof is partially wrapped around seat frame upper cross member  and completely around cross member , and held such as by a sewn or riveted seam.","Referring to , , and , the second embodiment chair with the telescoping frame can achieve the same functional positions of the first embodiment chair previously explained, however, the frames typically are in the extended position to do so. The various functional positions are accomplished in the same manner as the first embodiment of the invention by changing the attachment locations of telescoping upper siderails  and , and\/or by pinning the chair so as to restrain the chair from rocking. A plurality of apertures in second embodiment seat frame side members  and  correspond with apertures in the first embodiment seat frame  side members  and , with apertures  and  corresponding to apertures  and , apertures  and  to apertures  and , apertures  and  to apertures  and , and apertures  and  to apertures  and . Likewise, there are a plurality of apertures in second embodiment backrest side members  and  which correspond with apertures in first embodiment side members  and , with apertures , , and  to aperture , apertures , , and  to aperture , and apertures  and  to apertures  and .","A third embodiment folding rocking chair and chaise lounge is shown in  comprising a backrest frame , a seat frame , and a footrest frame .","Backrest frame  is of U-shape comprising a U-shaped member  having a pair of elongate side portions  and  interconnected by a bottom portion , and an upper cross member . Member  of backrest frame  is typically made from hardwood, and is attached to respective side portions  and  such as by screws .","Seat frame  is of U-shape comprising a pair of elongate side portions  and  interconnected by a bottom portion , and an upper cross member . Member  of seat frame  is typically made from hardwood, and is attached to respective side portions  and  such as by screws .","Footrest frame  is of U-shape comprising a pair of elongate side portions  and  interconnected by a bottom portion , and a pivotal foot support . Foot support  of footrest frame  is typically made from hardwood, and is attached to respective side portions  and  such as by screws  and washers . An end cap  and a spring clip  having a tapered head  to provide a more finished appearance to side portions  and  (FIG. ).","Foot support  can be held in a stowed position parallel to side portions  and  while not in use by a pair of conventional spring-loaded plungers (not shown) one each fitted into a pair of apertures (not shown) of footrest side portions  and , respectively, which selectively mate with one or the other pair of matching detentes (not shown) in foot support  in a similar manner to the first embodiment chair.","Backrest frame  and seat frame  are connected together so as to form the basic rocking chair by means of a pair of adjustable length, curved upper siderails , and a pair of lower siderails . Upper and lower siderails  and  are substantially rigid members. Upper siderails  each comprise a curved front tube , a straight rear tube , an end tube assembly , and a tubular cushion . Front tube  includes a front portion  having a single aperture  therethrough, and a rear portion  having a plurality of apertures , , and  therethrough. Rear tube  includes a front portion  which pilots into rear portion  of front tube  and a rear portion , an aperture  extending through front portion  which engages a spring clip  having a tapered head  to provide adjustability as subsequently described. End tube assembly  comprises a tube  which fits over rear portion  with an aperture  therethrough, and an end cap  which pressfits thereinto. Tubular cushion  closely fits over front tube  and includes a plurality of apertures , , and  therethrough which correspond with apertures , , and  of front tube  to provide finger access to depress tapered head  of spring clip . Tubular cushion  is made of urethane, sponge rubber, foam, or other such material so as to provide arm cushioning to upper siderails . Upper siderails  pivotally connect to the respective side portions  and  of backrest frame  and side portions  and  of seat frame  using respective bolts  each having an internally threaded end , nylon washers , and screws  which thread into threaded ends .","Each of lower siderails  include a front portion  and a rear portion  with respective apertures  and  extending therethrough, and a pair of end caps  pressfit thereinto. Rear portions  of lower siderails  pivotally connect to the respective side portions  and  of seat frame  using respective bolts , nylon washers , and screws . Front portions  of lower siderails  pivotally connect to the respective side portions  and  of backrest frame , along with respective side portions  and  of footrest frame  using respective bolts , nylon washers , and wingnuts . Bolts  are of sufficient length to allow the mounting of respective wheels (not shown) for wheeled transport as in the other embodiments previously described. Adjustable length, curved upper siderails  operate by depressing button  of spring clip  such that the desired aperture , , or  of front tube  can be utilized.","The placement of the pivotal connections of upper and lower siderails  and  to the respective side portions  and  of backrest frame  and side portions  and  of seat frame  must be designed such that the chair folds properly and opens to the desired positions as previously described for the other embodiments of the chair. The chair can be retained in the folded position by a pair of pins (not shown) inserted through appropriately placed apertures (not shown) as also previously described.","Footrest frame  is retained in the desired elevational position relative to seat frame  by means of respective variable incline ratchet assemblies  each comprising an elongate ratchet plate  having respective front and rear portions  and , a longitudinally extending main slot , a plurality of offset angled locking slots , , and , and an aperture . Variable incline ratchet assemblies  further comprise a U-shaped release plate  having a central portion  with an aperture  therethrough and respective dependent legs  and . Front portions  of ratchet plates  are pivotally connected to side portions  and  of footrest frame  using respective bolts  each having an internally threaded end , nylon washers , and screws  which thread into threaded ends . Rear portions  of ratchet plates  and release plate  are pivotally connected to side portions  and  of backrest frame  using respective bolts  each having an internally threaded end , nylon washers , and screws  which thread into threaded ends .","Referring to , variable incline ratchet assemblies  operate by applying finger pressure to upper leg  of release plate  to cause pivoting thereof about bolt  to cause lower leg  to contact and elevate ratchet plate  releasing bolt  from slot  for movement along main slot  to one of slots  and .","A rectangular, longitudinally flexible seat  of similar construction to seat  includes a head end , a foot end , and typically has a canvas top layer  and a canvas bottom layer  which surround a padded core  such as sheet foam, which extends for most of the length thereof. Head end  is retained in place by a portion thereof , which contains no padded core , which is completely wrapped around upper cross member  of backrest frame  and retained such as by a riveted or sewn seam . Foot end  is retained in place by a portion  thereof which contains padded core , which is completely wrapped around upper cross member  of seat frame  and retained such as by a riveted or sewn seam , with padded core  acting to cushion a user's legs. Seat  can also include an attached pillow  sewn to portion  of head end . The seat can also be made longer to attach to footrest  so as to form a chaise lounge as in previous embodiments.","An alternate, extendible length footrest frame  is of U-shape comprising a pair of elongate tubular side portions  interconnected by a tubular U-shaped bottom portion , and pivotal foot support . Tubular side portions  include a front portion  having a single aperture  therethrough, and a rear portion  having a plurality of apertures , , and  therethrough. Foot support  is attached to respective front portions  of tubular side portions  such as by screws  and washers . An end cap  and a spring clip  having a tapered head  provide a more finished appearance to side tubular side portions . U-shaped bottom portion  includes a pair of tubular legs  and  which are interconnected by a tubular cross leg . Tubular legs  and  pilot into respective rear portions  of tubular side portions , respective apertures  and  extending through the wall of tubular legs  and , which engage respective spring clips  to provide adjustable length of footrest frame . Footrest frame  operates by depressing button  of each spring clip  such that the desired aperture , , and  of tubular side portions  can be utilized.","A fourth embodiment folding rocking chair and chaise lounge is shown in  comprising a backrest frame , a seat frame , and a footrest frame .","Backrest frame  comprises a pair of elongate side members  and , a pair of upper cross members  and , and a plurality of lower cross members , , and . All of the members of backrest frame  are typically made from hardwood, and are attached together such as by screws . The lower portion of each of side members  and  comprise front legs  and , respectively.","Seat frame  comprises a pair of elongate side members  and , a pair of upper cross members  and , and a pair of lower cross members  and . Side members  and  include respective ratchet plates  and  attached thereto by means of a plurality of screws . A respective longitudinally extending main slot  and  extends through the respective ratchet plates  and , and through side members  and , along with a pair of offset angled locking slots  and . All of the members of seat frame  are typically made from hardwood, and are attached together such as by screws . The lower portion of each of side members  and  comprise rear legs  and , respectively.","Footrest frame  comprises a pair of elongate side members  and , a lower cross member . All of the members of footrest frame  are typically made from hardwood, and are attached together such as by screws . A foot support  is pivotally attached to footrest frame side members  and  as by screws  and washers . Foot support  can be held in a stowed position parallel to side members  and  while not in use by utilizing a pair of conventional spring-loaded plungers (not shown) as done for the first embodiment of the chair.","Backrest frame  and seat frame  are connected together so as to form the basic rocking chair by a pair of upper siderail assemblies  and , and a pair of lower siderails . Each of upper siderail assemblies  and  comprise a respective upper siderail  and , a pivotal armrest  and , and a folding brace  having respective upper and lower members  and  which are pivotally connected together. Upper and lower siderails  and , and  are substantially rigid members. Upper siderails  and  include respective front portions  and , and rear portions  and , respectively. Each of upper siderails  and  have a recessed aperture  and  through respective rear portions  and  which aligns with respective recessed apertures  and  in backrest frame side members  and , with a first end  of a retaining strap  having a aperture  being therebetween, and through which a bolt  is disposed and held in place by a nut  (FIG. ). Armrests  and  each have a recessed aperture  and  through respective rear portions  and  which align with respective recessed apertures  and  in upper siderails  and , through which a bolt  is disposed and held in place by a nut . Front portions  and  of upper siderails  and , and lower members  of folding braces  are pivotally connected to respective side members  and  of seat frame  through main slots  and  of ratchet plates  and  thereof using respective clevis pins  each having a transverse hole  therethrough, a cotter pin , a flat washer , and a pair of nylon washers  and . Upper members  of folding braces  are pivotally connected to respective front portions  and  of armrests  and  by means of respective bolts , nylon washers , and nuts  so as to provide respective raised positions () and lowered positions (FIG. ).","Each of lower siderails  have a recessed aperture  which aligns with a respective aperture  and  in side members  and  of seat frame , with a second end  of a retaining strap  having a aperture (not shown) therebetween, and through which a bolt  is disposed and removably held in place by a nut . Each of lower siderails  also have an axle aperture  which aligns with a respective axle aperture  and  in side members  and  of backrest frame , and with axle apertures  and  in side members  and  of footrest frame , and through which a sleeve or bushing  and a bolt or threaded axle  is disposed (FIG. ). Bolts  are of sufficient length to allow the mounting of respective wheels (not shown) for wheeled transport as in the other embodiments previously described. Upper siderail assemblies  and  operate by lifting the respective front portion  and  of upper siderails  to release bolts  from the respective slot  or  into the respective main slot  and moving upper siderails  and seat frame  to position bolts  in the desired slot  or .","The placement of the pivotal connections of upper and lower siderails  and  to the respective side members  and  of backrest frame  and side members  and  of backrest frame , and side members  and  of seat frame  must be designed such that the chair folds properly and opens to the desired positions as previously described for the other embodiments of the chair. The chair can be retained in the folded position by a pair of pins (not shown) inserted through appropriately placed apertures (not shown) as also previously described.","Footrest frame  is retained in the desired elevational position relative to seat frame  by means of respective variable incline ratchet assemblies  each comprising an elongate ratchet plate  having respective front and rear portions  and , a longitudinally extending main slot , a plurality of offset angled locking slots , , and , and an aperture . Variable incline ratchet assemblies  further comprise a U-shaped release plate  having a central portion  with an aperture  therethrough and respective dependent legs  and . Front portions  of ratchet plates  are pivotally connected to side members  and  of footrest frame  using respective bolts  each having an internally threaded end , nylon washers , and screws  which thread into threaded ends . Rear portions  of ratchet plates  and release plate  are pivotally connected to side members  and  of backrest frame  using respective screws  and nylon washers . Variable incline ratchet assemblies  operate in a similar manner to that of variable incline ratchet assemblies  as shown in  and as such will not be explained further.","A rectangular, longitudinally flexible seat  of similar construction to seat  includes a head end , a foot end , and typically has a canvas top layer  and a canvas bottom layer  which surround a padded core  such as sheet foam, which extends for most of the length thereof. Head end  is retained in place by a portion thereof , which contains no padded core , which is completely wrapped around upper cross member  of backrest frame backrest frame  and retained such as by a riveted or sewn seam . Foot end  is retained in place by a portion thereof  which contains padded core , which is completely wrapped around upper cross member  of seat frame  and retained such as by a riveted or sewn seam , with padded core  acting to cushion a user's legs.","Many variations of the chair and chaise lounge are possible while staying within the same inventive concept. For example, various stops such as cylindrical or of S-shaped cross-section can be bolted or otherwise connected to the respective frames to more easily retain such frames in the folded or stowed position. Likewise, the telescoping siderail tubes can be made to be infinitely adjustable by slitting the outermost tube and placing a cam lock clamp or other such clamp therearound to clamp such outermost tube to the innermost tube, eliminating the spring clip and finite number of hole positions.","Whereas this invention is here illustrated and described with reference to embodiments thereof presently contemplated as the best mode of carrying out such invention in actual practice, it is to be understood that various changes may be made in adapting the invention to different embodiments without departing from the broader inventive concepts disclosed herein and comprehended by the claims that follow."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"THE DRAWINGS","p":["The best mode presently contemplated for carrying out the invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00035","num":"00035"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00036","num":"00036"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00037","num":"00037"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00038","num":"00038"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00039","num":"00039"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"b":["5","5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00040","num":"00040"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00041","num":"00041"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"],"b":["7","7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00042","num":"00042"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["8","8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00043","num":"00043"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00044","num":"00044"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00045","num":"00045"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00046","num":"00046"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00047","num":"00047"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00048","num":"00048"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00049","num":"00049"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 13"],"b":["15","15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00050","num":"00050"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00051","num":"00051"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00052","num":"00052"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00053","num":"00053"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00054","num":"00054"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00055","num":"00055"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00056","num":"00056"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 20"],"b":["22","22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00057","num":"00057"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00058","num":"00058"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 23"],"b":["24","24"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00059","num":"00059"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00060","num":"00060"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25"],"b":["26","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00061","num":"00061"},"figref":["FIG. 27","FIG. 26"],"b":["27","27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00062","num":"00062"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00063","num":"00063"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 28"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00064","num":"00064"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00065","num":"00065"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 30"],"b":["31","31"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00066","num":"00066"},"figref":["FIG. 32","FIG. 31"],"b":["32","32"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00067","num":"00067"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00068","num":"00068"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00069","num":"00069"},"figref":"FIG. 35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00070","num":"00070"},"figref":"FIG. 36"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00071","num":"00071"},"figref":"FIG. 37"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00072","num":"00072"},"figref":"FIG. 38"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00073","num":"00073"},"figref":["FIG. 39","FIG. 35"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00074","num":"00074"},"figref":["FIG. 40","FIG. 39"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00075","num":"00075"},"figref":["FIG. 41","FIG. 40"],"b":["41","41"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00076","num":"00076"},"figref":["FIG. 42","FIG. 34"],"b":["42","42"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00077","num":"00077"},"figref":["FIG. 43","FIG. 42"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00078","num":"00078"},"figref":["FIG. 44","FIG. 34"],"b":["44","44"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00079","num":"00079"},"figref":["FIG. 45","FIG. 34"],"b":["45","45"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00080","num":"00080"},"figref":["FIG. 46","FIG. 36"],"b":["46","46"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00081","num":"00081"},"figref":["FIG. 47","FIG. 34"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00082","num":"00082"},"figref":["FIG. 48","FIG. 47"],"b":["48","48"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00083","num":"00083"},"figref":["FIG. 49","FIG. 48"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00084","num":"00084"},"figref":"FIG. 50"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00085","num":"00085"},"figref":["FIG. 51","FIG. 50"],"b":["51","51"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00086","num":"00086"},"figref":["FIG. 52","FIG. 51"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00087","num":"00087"},"figref":["FIG. 53","FIG. 51"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00088","num":"00088"},"figref":["FIG. 54","FIG. 53"],"b":["54","54"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00089","num":"00089"},"figref":["FIG. 55","FIG. 52"],"b":["55","55"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00090","num":"00090"},"figref":["FIG. 56","FIG. 52"],"b":["56","56"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
