---
title: Method and system for quality of service (QoS) support in a packet-switched network
abstract: A method and system for transporting traffic having disparate qualities of service classes across a packet-switched network includes receiving at an ingress node of a network a plurality of packets each comprising a quality of service (QoS) class defined externally to the network. Packets having a QoS class comprising delay bound guarantees and a low drop priority are combined into a first internal QoS class. Packets having a QoS class comprising a flexible drop priority and no delay bound guarantees are combined into a second internal QoS class. Packets having a QoS class including no delivery guarantees are combined into a third internal QoS class. The packets are transmitted in the network based on their internal QoS class.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07075927&OS=07075927&RS=07075927
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 07075927
owner_city: Kawasaki
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20010504
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","TECHINCAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benifit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/202,190, entitled INTERNET PROTOCOL TRANSPORT, filed May 5, 2000 which is hereby incorporated by reference.","the present invention relates generally to the field of telecommunication networks, and more particularly to a method and system for quality of service (QoS) support in a packet-switched network.","Telecommunication networks transport voice and data according to a variety of standards and using a variety of technologies. Circuit-switch networks such as plain old telephone service (POTS) utilize transmission paths dedicated to specific users for the duration of a call and employ continuous, fixed-bandwidth transmission. Packet-switch networks (PSNs) allow dynamic bandwidth, depending on the application, and can be divided into connectionless networks with no dedicated paths and connection-oriented networks with virtual circuits having dedicated bandwidth along a predetermined path. Because packet-switched networks allow traffic from multiple users to share communication links, these networks utilize available bandwidth more efficiently than circuit-switched networks.","Internet protocol (IP) networks are connectionless packet-switched networks. IP networks transport information by breaking up bitstreams into addressable digital packets. Each IP packet includes source and destination addresses and can take any available route between the source and the destination. The IP packets are transmitted independently and then reassembled in the correct sequence at the destination.","Conventional IP networks employ routers to direct packets to their destination. Packets are inspected at each router for network protocol addresses and forwarded to a next router on the way toward the destination based on downstream congestion and other real-time parameters. While this inspection and dynamic routing provides a high degree of flexibility within the network, it adds delays to each packet at each router. Accordingly, traffic transported across an IP network between geographically distributed source and destination points will have a relatively large cumulative delay. This limits the ability of the IP network to support voice, video, and other real-time applications.","The present invention provides an improved method and system for transporting traffic in a packet-switched network that substantially eliminate or reduce the problems and disadvantages associated with previous systems and methods. In a particular embodiment, the present invention maps external quality of service (QoS) classes into a reduced set of internally defined QoS classes while supporting essential features of the external QoS classes.","In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a method and system for transporting traffic having disparate qualities of service classes across a packet-switched network includes receiving at an ingress node of a private or other suitable network a plurality of packets each having a quality of service (QoS) class defined externally to the network. Packets having a QoS class including delay bound guarantees and a low drop priority are combined into a first internal QoS class. Packets having a QoS class including a flexible drop priority and no delay bound guarantees are combined into a second internal QoS class. Packets having a QoS class including no delivery guarantees are combined into a third internal QoS class. The packets are transmitted across the network based on their internal QoS classes.","Technical advantages of the present invention include providing an improved packet-switched network. In a particular embodiment, QoS support is efficiently provided for the packet-switched network. This allows provisioning of enhanced services and service differentiation by the network provider without high implementation cost.","Another technical advantage of the present invention includes providing voice, video and other real-time support for Internet protocol (IP) traffic using a partial QoS feature set in which non-essential features of well defined or standardized QoSs are combined into behavior aggregate classes. As a result, the number of internal QoS classes is reduced and the complexity to network reduced.","Other technical advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures, description, and claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","10"]},"The transport network  is a private network connecting geographically distributed segments of an external network . The external network  includes one or more public and\/or private networks such as the Internet, an intranet, and other suitable local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), and nodes. The external network  includes label switch and subtending routers , Ethernet switches , Frame Relay switches  and other suitable routers, switches, and nodes operable to generate and\/or transport traffic. The transport network  communicates with nodes of the external network  in the native protocol of the nodes to communicate traffic and control signaling between the networks  and .","Referring to , the transport network  includes a plurality of Internet protocol transport (IPT) nodes  interconnected by communication links . The IPT nodes  each include a plurality of ports  accessible to the external network . As used herein, each means every one of at least a subset of the identified items. The communication links  are optical fiber or other suitable high-speed links. As described in more detail below, the high-speed links  connect high speed interfaces of the IPT nodes  to form fast transport segments (FTS) through the transport network . Packets transferred via the FTSs incur very small buffering delay in the network. Packets carried through the ports  and between FTSs may incur queuing delay comparable to a normal IP switch.","To optimize bandwidth usage within the transport network , packets may be transmitted directly on the high-speed optical links  without synchronous optical network (SONET) framing and its associated overhead which imposes a penalty of three to five percent depending on the line rate. In one embodiment, a transport label is added to each packet to generate an internal packet that can be directly transmitted on the optical links . Transport label may be include format information indicating the type of signal being transmitted, a label value including a destination network address for a connectionless flow or a path identifier for a connection-oriented flow, a quality of service (QoS) identifier, an end-of-stack indicator, and time-to-live information. Details of the transport label are described in co-owned U.S. Patent Application entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Connectionless\/Connection Oriented Signal Transport\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000. Using the transport label, both connection-oriented and connectionless traffic may be seamlessly transported across the transport network . Protection for connection oriented data flows may be provided as described in co-owned U.S. Patent Application entitled \u201cMethod and System For Providing A Protection Path For Connection-Oriented Signals In A Telecommunications Network\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000. Protection for connectionless traffic flows may be provided as described in co-owned U.S. Patent Application \u201cMethod and System For Providing A Protection Path For Connectionless Signals In A Telecommunications Network\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000.","To support voice, video, and other real-time or time-sensitive applications, the transport network  provides quality of service (QoS), which may include class of service (CoS), differentiation. In one embodiment, all IP packets are mapped to one of three priority levels as they enter the transport network . In this embodiment, guaranteed traffic has reserved bandwidth and is guaranteed to be transported within a defined time delay. Control flow traffic is also reserved and guaranteed, but the network  does not guarantee delivery time delay. Best effort traffic does not have reserved bandwidth and delivery is not guaranteed by the network . By distinguishing and prioritizing traffic based on its QoS priority, including CoS and\/or service level agreement (SLA), and\/or other suitable indication of importance or delivery constraints, the transport network  is able to deliver time-sensitive traffic within tight time constraints by delaying and\/or dropping best effort traffic and other low priority traffic.","In one embodiment, the transport network  utilizes a private internal addressing scheme to isolate the network  from customers and thus minimize or prevent conflicts with private and\/or public networks connected to the transport network . This reduces the complexity of network management and preserves the topology of the existing routed network . In addition, transport network isolation enables value added services to be provided through the transport network .","When an independent addressing scheme is utilized for the transport network , egress traffic is converted from the external addressing scheme to the internal addressing scheme at ports  using standardized or extended network address translation (NAT). Similarly, egress traffic is converted from the internal addressing scheme back to the external addressing scheme at ports  using standard or extended NAT. In addition to the internal addresses, each IPT node , port  and other component of the transport network  visible to the external network  includes a globally unique IP address. These addresses are used for external management of the transport network .","The transport network  provides a flexible topology in which sets of ports  may be grouped in any suitable way and each treated as a single entity capable of independently interacting with external nodes. Thus, the transport network  is externally represented as sets of port groups  with internally managed connectivity. Provisioning of port groups  in the transport network  is unconstrained with mesh and partial-mesh topologies supported.","The port groups  are each a set of ports  with similar routing properties. In particular, a port group  is a set of ports  configured to provide multipoint-to-multipoint or at least point-to-multipoint connectivity between each other which allows point-to-multipoint connectivity between external elements. Accordingly, traffic received by a port group  can be routed directly from an ingress port  to a plurality of egress ports  without channelization in the transport network .","Port groups  may be provisioned as simple port groups and as composite port groups. In the simple port group configuration, each port  only belongs to a single port group . Private addresses can be supported inside the simple port group configuration. A composite port group includes ports  which have membership in multiple port groups . In the composite port group case, private IP addressing is not supported.","The port groups  each define a transport element  with geographically distributed ports . Each transport element  is assigned a unique global IP address for peering and protocol exchanges within and\/or external to the transport network . As described in more detail below, the transport elements  may implement a distributed architecture in which local processors control each of the ports  and a centralized processor controls the network element .","In particular embodiments, the transport elements may be transport routers  interconnecting sets of subtending IP routers , transport Ethernet switches  interconnecting sets of subtending Ethernet switches , and transport Frame Relay switches  interconnecting sets of subtending Frame Relay switches . In addition, the transport element  may interconnect two ports transparently, in which case the port group  is user protocol independent.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["60","60"]},"Referring to , the transport router  includes geographically distributed ports  connected to external routers . The external ports  form a port group  with point-to-multipoint connectivity between the ports  as externally represented by the router . Accordingly, traffic from any one of the external routers  may be routed from an ingress port  directly to any number of the other external routers  by router .","The transport router  includes a router identifier to peer with the external routers  and participate in reservation and other protocol exchanges. In a particular embodiment, the transport router  peers with subtending routers  by using interior gateway protocols (IGP) such as OSPF, IS-IS, or RIP. The transport router  may peer using an exterior gateway protocol (EGP) or any other suitable protocol.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["30","30","10","30"]},"Referring to , the IPT node  includes one or more receiver-transceiver pairs (RTP)  and a processing system  interconnected by an internal Ethernet connection. As described in more detail below, each RTP  includes one or more internal interfaces  and one or more local interfaces . The internal interfaces are high-speed interfaces between the IPT nodes  while the local interfaces  are low-speed ports  accessible to external nodes and\/or interfaces between FTSs.","Within the transport network , a set of internal interfaces  of the IPT nodes  are connected together between ports  of a port group  to form an FTS between the ports  and provide multipoint-to-multipoint and\/or point-to-multipoint connectivity. In particular, a multiplexer of an internal interface  is connected to a demultiplexer of a next internal interface  in the FTS while a demultiplexer of the internal interface  is connected to a multiplexer of a previous internal interface  in the FTS. The FTSs are directionally-sensitive to preferentially route pass-through traffic over local ingress traffic. In this way, traffic for a transport element  is transported between an ingress and an egress port on an FTS to minimize delay within the transport network .","The processing system  includes one or more central processing units (CPUs) . The CPUs  may each operate the IPT node  or a transport element . A CPU  operating the IPT node  includes an operating system and control functionality for the IPT node . A CPU  operating a transport element  includes control functionality for the distributed components of the transport element .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["110","110","110"]},"Referring to , the FTS  comprises dedicated internal interfaces  and high-speed links  extending from a source node  through a plurality of intermediate nodes  to a destination node . A local interface  is coupled to each of the internal interfaces  to allow local traffic to be added and dropped from the FTS .","As described in more detail below, in the FTS , each internal interface  segments local and pass-through traffic. The local traffic is dropped. The pass-through traffic is segmented into high and low priority pass-through traffic. The high priority pass-through traffic is transmitted along the FTS  preferentially over the low priority pass-through traffic and local ingress traffic from the local interface . The low priority pass-through is buffered. A traffic class is transmitted preferentially over other traffic when it is transferred first using needed bandwidths, the other traffic using remaining bandwidth for transmission.","The local traffic is segmented into high priority local traffic and low priority local traffic. The high priority local traffic is transmitted preferentially over the low priority pass-through traffic and the low priority local traffic. Accordingly, high priority pass-through traffic is transmitted without or with only minimum delay while avoiding starvation at the intermediate nodes .","The low priority traffic is transmitted based on remaining bandwidth availability. In one embodiment, the low priority pass-through traffic is transmitted preferentially over the low priority local traffic to give preference to pass-through traffic at all priorities. The high priority traffic may be reserve bandwidth traffic and the low priority traffic unreserved bandwidth traffic. In a particular embodiment, as described in more detail below, the high-priority traffic comprises internally defined guaranteed service and control load traffic and the low-priority traffic comprises internally defined best-effort traffic. Additional and intermediate priorities of traffic may be identified, segmented, and used to preferentially route traffic in the network.","In a particular embodiment, local and pass-through traffic is distinguished and segmented based on a shallow IP layer \u2154 lookup using the transport label. In this embodiment, the transport label identifies the corresponding packet as local or remote (pass-through) and identifies the internal QoS of the packet. Local traffic is dropped while the priority of the pass-through traffic is determined based on QoS for immediate transmission out or buffering. Similarly, ingress local traffic is labeled and analyzed to determine its transmission priority. Traffic having the same priority is transmitted in a first-in\/first-out (FIFO) basis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["100","104","106"]},"Referring to , the internal interface  includes an optical receiver , a demultiplexer , a multiplexer , and an optical transmitter . The optical receiver is a 10 Gb\/s receiver without SONET or package level knowledge. The optical receiver  performs the optical to electrical signal conversion. The optical receiver  may include an amplifier and may directly interface with a wave division multiplex (WDM) system.","The demultiplexer  drops local traffic and inter RTP traffic as well as buffers transit traffic. In a particular embodiment, the demultiplexer  has a set of 155 Mb\/s connections to interface cards of the external interface . The demultiplexer  may also have 155 Mb\/s connections to interface cards of other RTPs .","The multiplexer  collects local traffic from the interface cards of the external interface  and through traffic from the demultiplexer . The multiplexer  includes packet buffer, scheduler and insertion control functionality.","The optical transmitter  is a 10 Gb\/s transmitter without SONET or package level knowledge. The optical transmitter  may include an optical amplifier. The optical transmitter  performs a conversion from an electrical signal to an optical signal and may interface directly with a WDM system.","The local interface  include a plurality of low-speed interface cards . The low-speed interface cards  send and receive traffic to and from the multiplexer  and demultiplexer , respectively. The low-speed interface cards  also provide connections between the FTSs.","The low-speed interface cards  are the main buffering point for ingress and egress traffic of the transport network . Packet level intelligence, including routing and protection mechanisms, are provided by the low-speed interface cards . If the transport network  uses an isolated addressing scheme, the low-speed interface cards  perform NAT functionality.","In a particular embodiment, low-speed interface cards  each include a buffer for each internal QoS class, which as previously described, may be guaranteed service, control load and best effort. In this and other embodiments, each buffer may discard packets based on its own thresholds, independent of the others. Because guaranteed service and control-load traffic have reserved paths, comforming traffic typically will not be dropped. Best-effort traffic will be dropped based on congestion at the node.","Traffic received by the interface cards  from external links are associated with a corresponding data flow and a transport label generated for and\/or added to packet for transport through the network. In generating the label, the interface card  maps the external QoS class to one of the reduced number of internal QoS classes. The external QoS classes are defined outside or independently of the transport, private or other suitable network and may be well-defined classes such as standardized classes. The internal QoS classes are defined by and\/or within the network. The packet with the appended label is queued in a corresponding buffer and transmitted across the network along a path identified by the label and based on its internal QoS class. To provide a QoS guarantee for each new traffic flow, a path through the network that has sufficient resources to meet the flow's requirements is identified. The flow's requirements may be bandwidth and\/or delay guarantees. In one embodiment, feasible paths are dynamically determined based on availability of network resources throughout the network. In this embodiment, network resources are stored in a link state database in the IPT nodes  which are provisioned and\/or updated using opaque link state advertisement (LSA) to advertise the available link bandwidth and propagation delay in the network.","A constraint shortest path first (CSPF), open shortest path first (OSPF) or the suitable algorithm may utilize the link state database to compute feasible paths and\/or optimal paths. The CSPF and\/or OSPF algorithms may comprise Bellman-Ford or Dijkstra algorithms and may be optimized for one cost, such as bandwidth or propagation delay. To satisfy both requirements for a connection, sequential filtering may be used. In this embodiment, paths based on bandwidth or other primary metric are computed first and a subset of them eliminated based on propagation delay or other secondary metric until a single, optimum or acceptable path is found. For a guaranteed service or control load traffic, bandwidth for the path is reserved using a signaling or other suitable protocol. Paths may be reserved as described in co-owned US patent application entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Application Object Transport\u201d, filed Jun. 6, 2000. It will be understood that suitable, preferred and\/or optimal paths may be otherwise determined based on availability of network resources and that bandwidth may be otherwise suitably reserved in the transport network. For example, paths may be identified through the transport network by pruning links that do no have enough bandwidth to meet the bandwidth request with a probability greater than a defined value and minimum-hop paths computed based on the pruned topology. In this embodiment, if there are two or more minimum-hop paths, the one with the largest available bandwidth may be chosen. In addition, to account for inaccurate information on network resource availability, a weighing metric may be used and adjusted to account for the probability distribution function. In a particular embodiment, OSPF and IS-IS extensions carried via opaque LSA's may be used to gather resource availability. In a particular embodiment, the extension comprises Router Address TLV (type ), Link TLV (type ), Link Type sub-TLV (sub-type ), Link ID sub-TLV (sub-type ), Local Interface IP Address sub-TLV (sub-type ), Remote Interface IP Address sub-TLV (sub-type ), Traffic Engineering Metric sub-TLV (sub-type ), Maximum Bandwidth sub-TLV (sub-type ), Maximum Reservable Bandwidth sub-TLV (sub-type ), Unreserved Bandwidth sub-TLV (sub-type ), Resource Class\/Color sub-TLV (sub-type ), Router ID TLV (type ), Extended IP Reachability TLV (type ), Extended IS Reachability TLV (type ), Administrative Group sub-TLV (sub-type ), IPV4 Interface Address sub-TLV (sub-type ), IPV4 Neighbour Address sub-TLV (sub-type ), Maximum Link Bandwidth sub-TLV (subtype ), Maximum Reservable Link Bandwidth sub-TLV (sub-type ), Unreserved Bandwidth sub-TLV (sub-type ), TE Default Metric sub-TLV (sub-type ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"10"},"Referring to , the internal QoS classes include an IPT guaranteed service class (gs) , an IPT control load (CL) class , and an IPT best effort (BE) class . In an particular embodiment, the IPT GS class  is characterized by low latency with delayed bound guarantees and a low drop priority. This service utilizes reservation. The IPT CL class  is characterized with no delay bound guarantees but with flexible drop priority. This class also uses reservation. The IPT BE class  provides no delivery guarantees in accordance with transmission of standard data traffic over the Internet. The IPT classes ,  and  together support a subset of the standardized QoS features with non-essential features combined to reduce the number of QoS classes, which may reduce the cost and complexity of the network . Accordingly, the IPT classes ,  and  each represent a queuing behavior type and\/or behavior aggregate.","For the standardized integrated services QoS classes, the guaranteed class  is mapped into the IPT GS class . Guaranteed class  provides an assured level of bandwidth that when used by a policed flow produces a delay bounded service with no queuing loss for all comforming packets. The guaranteed service  does not attempt to control the minimal or average delay of a packet, but controls the maximum queuing delay. The guaranteed service  guarantees the packets will arrive within the guaranteed delivery time and will not be discarded due to queued overflows, provided that flow's traffic stays within the specified traffic parameters. The service is used by real-time applications that require packets to arrive no later than a certain time after transmission by a source. For example, the guaranteed service  may be used by audio and video play-back applications.","The integrated services control load class  is mapped into the IPT CL class . The control load class  provides an end-to-end behavior tightly approximating the behavior visible to applications receiving best-effort service under unloaded conditions. A very high percentage of transmitted packets will be successfully delivered by the network to the receiving end nodes. The transit delay experience by a high percentage of the delivered packets will not greatly exceed the minimum transmit delay experience by any successfully delivered packet. Should traffic fall outside an estimated amount, a large number of packets may be delayed or dropped.","For the differentiated services, the expedited forwarding class  provides a low loss, low latency, low jitter, assured bandwidth end-to-end service. The service appears to the endpoints like a point-to-point connection by a virtual lease line. The expedited forwarding class  is mapped to the IPT GS class  along with the guaranteed class . Accordingly, the IPT GS class comprises traffic within assured level of bandwidth, and low loss, low latency, low jitter or other delay-bounded requirements corresponding to standardized classes. In one embodiment, each metric for defining an internal class ,  and\/or  may be the strictest metric of the combined standardized classes.","The differentiated services assured forwarding classes (,  and )  provide separate levels of forwarding assurances with one of three possible drop-precedence values. In case of congestion, the drop precedence of a packet determines the relative importance of a packet within the assured forwarding class . Packets with a lower-drop precedence value are protected by preferably discarding packets with a higher drop precedence value. Each assured forwarding group is provided a minimum forwarding bandwidth assurance, and any excessive bandwidth is fairly shared. The assured forwarding groups ,  and  are mapped to the IPT CL class  along with the control load services . Accordingly, the IPT CL class comprises traffic with no delay bound and a flexible drop priority in accordance with the corresponding defined service classes. The IPT CL Class  has no specified latency but may require reservation by signaling or SLA.","Differentiated services assured forwarding  class  is mapped into the IPT BE class  along with the differentiated services best effort class . Alternatively, assured forwarding group  may be supported by the IPT CL class . The IPT BE class provides no latency limits or reservation. In this way, a large number of externally-defined and\/or standardized QoS classes can be supported by a reduced set of internally defined QoS classes, which support the most important features of the defined external QoS classes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["100","140","142"]},"Referring to , the RTP  includes internal interface  and local interface . The internal interface  includes the receiver , demultiplexer , multiplexer  and transmitter . A traffic buffer  is coupled between the demultiplexer  and multiplexer . The local interface  includes a local buffer  coupled between the demultiplexer , multiplexer  and a local port .","The receiver  includes an optical to electrical interface (OEI)  for converting ingress optical signals from the high-speed optical links  to electrical signals. The demultiplexer  includes a lookup table  for identifying pass-through and local traffic. The transmitter  includes an OEI  for converting an egress traffic stream to optical signals for transmission over the high-speed optical links . The transmit buffer  is a two packet or other suitable sized buffer operable to hold direct pass-through packets while the multiplexer  completes processing of a current packet.","The local buffer  receives low priority pass-through traffic of the IPT BE class  and buffers the traffic for transmission based on bandwidth availability. Egress local traffic is dropped through the local buffer  to the local port  for transmission to a local designation or another FTS . The local buffer  also receives and buffers ingress high and low priority local traffic for transmission on the FTS  based on bandwidth availability. Local buffer  may include a scheduler  to shape low priority pass-through and local traffic.","The local port  receives and transmits local traffic. In one embodiment, the local port  includes a demultiplexer  with lookup table  for distinguishing and segmenting high and low priority ingress local traffic. This allows all high priority traffic to be transmitted preferentially over all low priority traffic regardless of the source and\/or the destination of the traffic. Within the high priority traffic, packets from the IPT GS class  may be preferentially transmitted over packets in the IPT CL class .","In operation, an ingress traffic stream is received at the receiver  and converted to an electrical packet stream  by OEI . The packet stream  is demultiplexed by demultiplexer  into discrete packets and segmented into local egress traffic  and pass-through traffic . The pass-through traffic  is further segmented based on its QoS into high priority pass-through traffic  and low priority pass-through traffic .","The high priority pass-through traffic  is passed to the multiplexer  through the transmit buffer  while the low priority pass-through traffic  is dropped to the local buffer . The local buffer  drops egress local traffic  and hairpins low priority pass-through traffic  for transmission back on the FTS  based on bandwidth availability.","Local ingress traffic is demultiplexed at the local port  and segmented into high priority local ingress traffic  and low priority local ingress traffic  using the lookup table . The local buffer  receives and buffers the high and low priority local traffic  and  along with the low-priority pass-through traffic .","The multiplexer  inserts all high-priority pass-through traffic from the transmit buffer  into an egress traffic flow  immediately or, if active, immediately upon finishing a current packet. High priority local traffic  is inserted into available bandwidth with the low priority pass-through local traffic inserted into the remaining available bandwidth of the egress traffic flow and with the low priority pass-through and local traffic inserted into the remaining available bandwidth. The multiplexer  multiplexes the traffic flows into an egress traffic stream  that is converted to an optical signal by OEI  for transmission over the high speed optical link . In this way, high priority pass-through traffic passes the RTP  with little or no delay. Local high priority traffic is delayed transmission on the FTS  until bandwidth first becomes available. After that point, it is treated as pass-through traffic by downstream nodes to prevent additional delays. Accordingly, queuing delays can be estimated and are minimized in the network, which increases bandwidth manageability and applications that can be supported by the network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["10","250","252"]},"Proceeding to step , local and pass-through traffic is segregated. The traffic may be segregated using the transport label and a shallow lookup or a standard routing table lookup. At step , high and low priority pass-through traffic is segregated. In one embodiment, guaranteed, control load and control signal traffic using reserve bandwidth are treated as high priority traffic while best effort traffic using unreserved bandwidth is treated as low priority traffic.","Proceeding to step , local egress traffic is dropped. At step , low priority pass-through traffic is buffered. At step , high priority pass-through traffic is inserted into the egress flow for immediate transmission regardless of the amount of local traffic waiting transmission. At step , high priority local traffic is inserted into the egress flow based on bandwidth availability with guaranteed traffic given preference. Thus, all high-priority traffic is transmitted before low priority traffic is processed regardless of the source or destination of the low priority traffic.","Next, at step , the low priority traffic is inserted into the egress traffic flow based on remaining bandwidth availability. The low priority traffic may be inserted in a FIFO order or preferentially with pass-through traffic transmitted prior to local traffic. At step , the egress flows are multiplexed into an egress traffic stream. The egress traffic stream is transmitted on the FTS  at step . In this way, substantial cumulative delays are avoided in the network.","Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments, various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present invention encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["For a more complete understanding of the present invention and its advantages, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals represent like parts, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
