---
title: Peripheral apparatus for intelligent networks and method for providing user services in intelligent networks
abstract: An apparatus and method for providing user interaction functionality in connection with providing call services (e.g., toll-free calls, 900 calls, calling card calls, etc.) in an intelligent network, especially, but not necessarily only, an advanced intelligent network. More specifically, an apparatus is provided in association with a given service control point (that offers a given call service). According to the present invention, user information needed to set up or otherwise provide the call service (e.g., a calling card number) is collected and, if needed, feedback is provided to the user. In particular, the feedback is customized with respect to a particular user (e.g., using language and/or dialect corresponding to a geographic location of the user). Collecting user information can include speech recognition, including speech recognition across multiple languages and synonymous terms. The present invention may be embodied, for example, in a computer system that processes input information and outputs information to the user. The system may include a signaling interface unit for communicating with the intelligent network. The system is connected to a service switching point and may additionally be connected to a service connection point. The nodal connections are made on an out-of-band signaling network, such as a Signaling System 7 network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06996224&OS=06996224&RS=06996224
owner: 
number: 06996224
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20010430
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present invention is generally directed to an apparatus and method for providing customized user interaction functionality for call services in an Intelligent Network (\u201cIN\u201d).","IN architectures are based on limiting the function of switches in a switch-based network (e.g., a PSTN) to basic circuit management\/call control and moving all value-added services for a call to processors outside of the switch network. This structure provides the network operator with the means to develop and control value-added call services more efficiently, instead of relying on switching system vendors for software development. New capabilities can be rapidly introduced into the network, and, once introduced, services are easily customized to meet individual customer's needs.","A typical IN architecture distributes service logic, data and service assistance functions throughout the telecommunications network. IN networks provide enhanced call services such as voice mail, single number reach, speech recognition, call screening and the like.","In the typical IN architecture, a call is routed to a service switching point (SSP) from a switching system as a result of the activation of a trigger (for example, the dialed directory number, call forward on busy, or the like). The control information for the call is sent to the SSP's control computer which determines the service to be performed and instructs the switch fabric of the SSP to sequentially connect the call to one or more service circuits (each known as a service control point (SCP)) as appropriate for the applicable service. The connection between the SSP and SCP is typically on a Signaling System 7 (SS7) network, in accordance with established communication protocols therefor.","In return, each SCP instructs the SSP about providing the required service to the call.","The present invention is generally directed to an apparatus and and method for providing customized user interaction functionality for call services in an Intelligent Network (\u201cIN\u201d).","The present invention is also directed to an IN peripheral system and associated method for managing resources in an IN, particularly, but not necessarily only, user interaction-type functions (e.g., user voice recording, recorded and instantly-generated voice announcements, DTMF detection, tone generation, tone detection, dial pulse detection (i.e., support for analog\/dial pulse telephones), and\/or speech recognition). The interaction functionality is preferably adaptable to various applications, such as, without limitation, recorded and instantly-generated voice announcements in multiple languages, speech recognition of multiple languages, recognition of synonymous inputs (e.g., verbalizing \u201coh\u201d versus verbalizing \u201czero\u201d).","One aspect of the present invention relates to customizing the information heard by an end-user according to, for example, dialect and idiomatic requirements.","As seen in , telephone users  are connected to an IN by way of an SSP . When users  trigger the IN to provide a call service, SSP  routes the service request to one or more SCPs  (only one being illustrated here for clarity) in accordance with known IN communication protocols, as discussed above. When required, SCP  calls peripheral apparatus  (sometimes referred to as an \u201cintelligent peripheral\u201d). Peripheral apparatus  provides user interaction functionality between a user  and SCP  by way of a voice link  between SSP  and peripheral apparatus , and a data link  between SCP  and peripheral apparatus . As seen in , another data link  connects SSP  and SCP .","Generally, SCP  contains the service logic for providing a particular call service. In order to illustrate the process of requesting a call service, the following example is offered, solely by way of example and without intending to be limiting.","For example, if a user  wants to place a calling-card call, he or she might first dial a certain access telephone number (e.g., a toll-free 800 number). The call is routed to SSP , which recognizes a call associated with placing a calling-card call. Therefore, SSP  routes the call to an appropriate SCP .","To start the calling-card authorization process, SCP  might instruct peripheral apparatus  to send a recorded message to user  (via voice link ) asking the user  to input his or her calling card number. Next, in accordance with the service logic of SCP , SCP  then instructs peripheral apparatus  to \u201clisten\u201d for DTMF tones corresponding to the digits of the calling card number or, by way of appropriate voice recognition hardware and\/or software, or verbalized digits of the calling card number spoken by user . Peripheral apparatus  then converts this received information into a form that is usable by SCP  and sends it to SCP . SCP  may then, for example, search an appropriate database to confirm that the calling card number is active and valid. If the calling card number is found to be valid, SCP  then might, for example, instruct peripheral apparatus  to send user  a recorded message asking user  to enter a desired telephone number. Thereafter, peripheral apparatus  \u201clistens\u201d for this information as well, as input by user , and the information is sent to SCP , which may, for example, confirm that the desired telephone number is a valid telephone number. Having concluded the calling card set-up process, SCP  might then conclude the call service request by instructing SSP  to route the call across another part of the network in order to establish a connection with the desired telephone number, in a conventional fashion.","The above-mentioned exemplary scenario can be varied in several ways in accordance with the present invention. For example, SCP  might be configured to recognize the country in which user  is located, and accordingly instruct peripheral apparatus  to play customized recorded messages in an appropriate language or in an appropriate \u201cversion\u201d of a language (e.g., American English versus British English). Also, in addition to playing recorded messages, peripheral apparatus  may be configured (in accordance with a given service logic) to \u201cread back\u201d input information by spontaneously generating a voice message based on the input information. For example, after the calling card information is input and recognized, peripheral apparatus  might spontaneously generate a message stating \u201cYou entered 1-2-3-0-5-6-7. Is this correct?\u201d The verbalization of \u201c1-2-3-0-5-6-7\u201d by peripheral apparatus  could be customized by, for example, pronouncing 0 as \u201czero\u201d or \u201coh\u201d; or configuring the inter-digit pause. Other examples of customizing information include saying \u201ctwenty-three fifteen\u201d or \u201celeven fifteen p.m.\u201d or \u201cquarter past eleven in the evening\u201d or \u201celeven hours and fifteen minutes\u201d and so on.","SSP , SCP , and peripheral apparatus  may communicate in accordance with the established Intelligent Network Application Protocol (according to ITU-T specification Q.1218 and ETSI specification ETS 300 374-1).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["106","106","200","202","202","204"],"i":"a "},"As seen in , peripheral apparatus  is connected to an SCP (e.g., SCP ) and an SSP (e.g., SSP ) by, for example, E1 lines. In addition, computer , SIU , and server  are connected by a LAN (or WAN).","Computer  is, for example, a commercially-available SUN-Ultra platform. HA-Cluster SUN platforms are also usable. In a particular example of a computer  usable in accordance with the present invention, a SUN-Ultra system having a PCI bus and running the Solaris O\/S is provided. Computer  has, for example, a 10BaseT Ethernet card for connection to a LAN or WAN.","A suitable SIU  is available from, for example, DataKinetics as Model No. DSC 131. The SIU  provides an interface to SS7 networks for a number of distributed application platforms via TCP\/IP LAN. The SIU  uses the SS7 Message Transfer Part (MTP). The SIU  is a terminus for SS7 signaling and it distributes extracted information from SS7 network traffic to the ISUP and SCCP user parts of the software stack (see, for example,  and the discussion directed thereto below) resident on the computer . Physical connection to the SS7 network may be made using either E1 or T1 PCM bearers, or a V.11 (V.35 compatible) synchronous serial interface. In addition, a 10BaseT Ethernet card may also be provided for connection to the LAN or WAN.","Voice processing functionality (other than speech recognition) may be provided by, for example, a D300PCI-E1\u2122 plug-in board (from Dialogic Corp.) connected to a PCI slot of computer . This board handles in-band telephony signaling and performs DTMF and audio\/voice signal processing tasks. Algorithms (for example, firmware available by download from SpringWare) are executed by on-board DSPs and provide variable voice coding at 24 and 32 Kb\/s ADPCM, and 48 and 64 Kb\/s ae-law or A-law PCM, as well as ae-law to A-law conversion. Sampling rates and coding methods are selectable on a channel-by-channel basis. Applications may dynamically switch sampling rate and coding method to optimize data storage or voice quality as the need arises. DTMF detection, DTMF cut-through, and talk off\/play off suppression over a wide variety of telephone line conditions may be provided.","Dialogic Global DPD\u2122 dial pulse detection algorithm (commercially available as a software option for the D\/300PCI-E1) permits operation in countries that have limited touchtone telephone service. Global DPD can be optimized on a country-by-country basis.","Speech recognition functionality may be provided by, for example, a plug-in PCI board, such as that commercially-available from Dialogic Corp. under the name Antares. Antares is an open digital signal processor (DSP) platform developed for medium and high-density or multiple technology telecommunication applications (e.g. Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), Text-To-Speech (TTS), and modems)","Software components for speech recognition (i.e., client and server components) are available from, for example, Nuance Communications. The server portion of the software is resident in server . Server  may be, for example, a Windows NT server or another SUN system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["200","106","104","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["variableMessage","[30] SEQUENCE {",{}]},{"entry":[{},"elementaryMessageID","[0] Integer4,"]},{"entry":[{},"variableParts","[1] SEQUENCE SIZE (1 . . . 5)"]},{"entry":[{},{},"OF VariablePart"]},{"entry":"VariablePart ::= CHOICE {"},{"entry":["integer","[0] Integer4,"]},{"entry":["number","[1] Digits,","Generic digits"]},{"entry":["time","[2] OCTET STRING (SIZE(2)),","HH:MM, BCD coded"]},{"entry":["date","[3] OCTET STRING (SIZE(3)),","YYMMDD, BCD coded"]},{"entry":["price","[4] OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"The ASN syntax above includes a higher degree of interpretation of the underlying protocol. The structure message ID may also be further defined to signify the language and the service to which the message is related. The variable portion, that actually contains the message, is checked for type, i.e., integer, number, time, date or price. Based on the configuration illustrated in , the announcement can be customized.","For example, customization parameters can be defined for one or more languages. When the message arrives at the peripheral apparatus , depending on the language and the type of the variable portion, customization can be applied. For example, if the language is identified as British English, announcement of the date can be configured as DD\/MM\/YYYY. If the language is identified as American English, announcement of the date can be configured as MM\/DD\/YYYY.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":"106"},"SS7 stack  is responsible for handling the SS7 Messages received from the SSP\/SCP. It invokes the appropriate Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) to the corresponding entities (either call control entity  or Multiple Association Control Function (MACF) , depending on whether the peripheral apparatus  is directly connected to the SCP  or is connected to the SCP  by way of the SSP , respectively). The SS7 stack  may include MTP, MTP, MTP, SCCP, ISUP and TCAP protocols.","Call control entity  is responsible for managing the user channels between SSP  and peripheral apparatus . Call control entity  interacts with the ISUP of SS7 stack  via APIs, and with the MACF  (to furnish call control related events to the Specialized Resource Functions (SRF) (i.e. Functional Entity Access Module (FEAM)  and SRF Management Entity (SRME)\/SRF State Model (SRSM) ).","MACF  is responsible for keeping the INAP entities transparent to the type of connectivity between peripheral apparatus  and SSP  and SCP .","FEAM  is responsible for ASN.1 encoding and decoding of operations and parameters corresponding to each operation. This interacts with the MACF  to initiate, maintain or terminate a dialog with the SCP . It interacts with the SRME\/SRSM , and queues operations to be executed by the SRSMs to alleviate congestion. FEAM  maintains the correlation between the Channel ID and Transaction id corresponding to a call established for performing operations.","There is an SRF State Model (SRSM) for each channel supported by the peripheral apparatus . The state of each channel is maintained in the corresponding SRSM. Each SRSM is responsible for invoking appropriate resource manager functions depending on the operations requested and sending results\/errors back to SCP  for the concerned channel. When requested by SCP , a SRSM will initiate the disconnection of the respective channel.","The SRF Management Entity (SRME) is responsible for invocation, maintenance, and termination of SRSMs for each channel on which operations are performed.","Resource manager  manages hardware resources needed for the requested operations. It supports a library of functions that can be invoked by the SRSM entities depending on which operations are required. Resource manager  also has access to a database of announcements and voice mails stored by the peripheral apparatus . It also enables storage of recorded user messages in the peripheral apparatus .","Service environment  supports the interface needed for configuring the peripheral apparatus  with information to set up new services, for storing new announcements, for starting up and shutting down the peripheral apparatus , etc.","IP Manager  provides for initialization, provisioning, configuration of the different entities and update of the configuration data as and when required.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIGS. 5 and 6","b":["106","104","106","104","102"]},"It is noted that the functional blocks in  and \u2013 may be implemented in hardware and\/or software. The hardware\/software implementations may include a combination of processor(s) and article(s) of manufacture. The article(s) of manufacture may further include storage media and executable computer program(s). The executable computer program(s) may include the instructions to perform the described operations. The computer executable program(s) may also be provided as part of externally supplied propagated signal(s).","The invention being thus described, it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways, including applying the methods and structures disclosed herein to other signaling protocols. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention, and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will be even more clearly understandable in view of the detailed description hereinbelow and the drawings appended hereto, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
