---
title: Demarcated digital content and method for creating and processing demarcated digital works
abstract: Flags are used to mark portions of content in a digital work to permit marking or demarcation of portions of the document. The demarcated portions can be handled in various ways. For example, different usage rights can be applied to demarcated portions, the demarcated portionis can be culled for use as a summary, or the like. The flags can be used to demarcate portions of content that has been downloaded to keep track of payment and download status and thus add flexibility to electronic distribution of content. A flag usage rights element can be attached to limit and control access to flags in a desired manner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06973445&OS=06973445&RS=06973445
owner: ContentGuard Holdings, Inc.
number: 06973445
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010531
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION DATA","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is related to Applicants' patent applications entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TRANSFERRING USAGE RIGHTS AND DIGITAL WORK HAVING TRANSFERRABLE USAGE RIGHTS (Ser. No. 09\/867,740), METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ESTABLISHING USAGE RIGHTS FOR DIGITAL CONTENT TO BE CREATED IN THE FUTURE (Ser. No. 09\/867,747), METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DYNAMICALLY ASSIGNING USAGE RIGHTS TO DIGITAL WORKS (Ser. No. 09\/867,745), METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ASSIGNING CONDITIONAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL RIGHTS TO DOCUMENTS AND DOCUMENTS HAVING SUCH RIGHTS (Ser. No. 09\/867,749), and METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HIERARCHICAL ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS TO DOCUMENTS AND DOCUMENTS HAVING SUCH RIGHTS (Ser. No. 09\/867,748), which are being filed concurrently herewith, and are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.","The subject invention relates generally to management of digital works and more specifically to demarcated digital content and a method for demarcating the content of digital works and processing the digital works.","One of the most important issues impeding the widespread distribution of digital works or documents (i.e. documents in forms readable by computers), via electronic means, and the Internet in particular, is the current lack of ability to enforce the intellectual property rights of content owners during the distribution and use of digital works. Efforts to resolve this problem have been termed \u201cIntellectual Property Rights Management\u201d (\u201cIPRM\u201d), \u201cDigital Property Rights Management\u201d (\u201cDPRM\u201d), \u201cIntellectual Property Management\u201d (\u201cIPM\u201d), \u201cRights Management\u201d (\u201cRM\u201d), and \u201cElectronic Copyright Management\u201d (\u201cECM\u201d), collectively referred to as \u201cDigital rights management (DRM)\u201d herein. There are a number of issues to be considered in digital rights management: authentication, authorization, accounting, payment and financial clearing, rights specification, rights verification, rights enforcement, and document protection for example. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,530,235, 5,634,012, 5,715,403, 5,638,443, and 5,629,980 disclose DRM concepts addressing these issues and are incorporated herein by reference.","In the world of printed documents, a work created by an author is usually provided to a publisher, which formats and prints numerous copies of the work. The copies are then sent by a distributor to bookstores or other retail outlets, from which the copies are purchased by end users. While the low quality of copying and the high cost of distributing printed material have served as deterrents to unauthorized copying of most printed documents, it is far too easy to copy, modify, and redistribute unprotected digital works. Accordingly, some method of protecting digital works is necessary to make it more difficult to copy them without authorization.","Unfortunately, it has been widely recognized that it is difficult to prevent, or even deter people from making unauthorized distributions of electronic works within current general-purpose computing and communications systems such as personal computers, workstations, and other devices connected over communications networks, such as local area networks (LANs), intranets, and the Internet. Many attempts to provide hardware-based solutions to prevent unauthorized copying have proven to be unsuccessful. The proliferation of high band-width \u201cbroadband\u201d communications technologies will render it even more convenient to distribute large documents electronically, including video files such as full length motion pictures, and thus will remove any remaining deterrents to unauthorized distribution of digital works. Accordingly, DRM technologies are becoming a high priority.","Two basic DRM schemes have been employed to attempt to solve the document protection problem: secure containers and trusted systems. A \u201csecure container\u201d (or simply an encrypted document) offers a way to keep document contents encrypted until a set of authorization conditions are met and some copyright terms are honored (e.g., payment for use). After the various conditions and terms are verified with the document provider, the document is released to the user in clear form. Commercial products such as IBM's CRYPTOLOPES\u2122 and InterTrust's DIGIBOXES\u2122 fall into this category. Clearly, the secure container approach provides a solution to protecting the document during delivery over insecure channels, but does not provide any mechanism to prevent legitimate users from obtaining the clear document and then using and redistributing it in violation of content owners' intellectual property.","Cryptographic mechanisms are typically used to encrypt (or \u201cencipher\u201d) documents that are then distributed and stored publicly, and ultimately privately deciphered by authorized users. This provides a basic form of protection during document delivery from a document distributor to an intended user over a public network, as well as during document storage on an insecure medium.","In the \u201ctrusted system\u201d approach, the entire system is responsible for preventing unauthorized use and distribution of the document. Building a trusted system usually entails introducing new hardware such as a secure processor, secure storage and secure rendering devices. This also requires that all software applications that run on trusted systems be certified to be trusted. While building tamper-proof trusted systems is a real challenge to existing technologies, current market trends suggest that open and untrusted systems such as PC's and workstations using browsers to access the Web, will be the dominant systems used to access digital works. In this sense, existing computing environments such as PC's and workstations equipped with popular operating systems (e.g., Windows\u2122, Linux\u2122, and UNIX) and rendering applications such as browsers are not trusted systems and cannot be made trusted without significantly altering their architectures. Of course, alteration of the architecture defeats a primary purpose of the Web, i.e. flexibility and compatibility.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,634,012, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference, discloses a system for controlling the distribution of digital documents. Each rendering device has a repository associated therewith. A predetermined set of usage transaction steps define a protocol used by the repositories for carrying out usage rights associated with a document. Usage rights are encapsulated with the document content or otherwise associated with the document to travel with the document. The usage rights can permit various types of use such as, viewing only, use once, distribution, and the like. Rights can be granted based on payment or other conditions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["110","112","120","110","110","120","110","120","110","120","130","120","130","130","130"]},"Payment for the work is passed from user  to distributor  by way of clearinghouse  which collects requests from user  and from other users who wish to sue a particular content. Clearinghouse  also collects payment information, such as debit transactions, credit card transactions, or other known electronic payment schemes, and forwards the collected payments as a payment batch to distributor . Of course, clearinghouse  may retain a share of the payment as a fee for the above-noted services. Distributor  may retain a portion of the batch payment from clearinghouse  for distribution services and forward a payment (for example royalties) to author . Distributor  may compile a bundle or batch of user requests for a single work before distributing the work. In such a case, a single instance of the encrypted work can be generated for unencryption by all of the requesting users .","Each time user  requests (or uses) content of a work, an accounting message is sent to audit server  which ensures that each request by user  matches with a document sent to user  by distributor . Accounting information is received by audit server  directly from distributor . Any inconsistencies are transmitted via a report to clearinghouse , which can then adjust the payment batches made to distributor  accordingly. This accounting scheme is operative to reduce the possibility of fraud in electronic distribution and to handle any time-dependent usage permissions that may result in charges that vary, depending on the duration or other extent of use.","A first aspect of the invention is a digital work recorded on computer readable media comprising a content element including content data to be utilized by an end user, a content usage rights element associated with the content element and including data stored in addressable memory and specifying usage rights for the content element, and a flag element associated with the content element and having memory registers for saving demarcation flags.","A second aspect of the invention is a method of marking portions of content data of a digital work stored in addressable memory comprising, associating a flag element with the content data, the flag element having memory registers for saving demarcation flags, selecting a portion of the content to be marked, and manipulating the flag element to indicate the marked portion of the content.","DRM techniques and systems permit digital works to be distributed electronically while allowing the content owner, such as the copyright holder, to control use of the content and receive remuneration for the content. However, there are still several factors that tend to prohibit widespread electronic distribution of many works, such as works having a large amount of content, valuable content, and the like. For example, many devices, such as pagers and personal digital assistants (PDAs), have limited memory and communications bandwidth. Therefore, in many cases it is not practical, or even possible to download a work in its entirety to such devices. Of course, the publisher could divide the intended work into plural documents of a smaller size. However, in such a case, the user would have to go through the purchasing and download procedure plural times to receive the entire intended work. Also, different devices have different memory sizes and communications bandwidth. Accordingly, the publisher would have to divide the document into documents of a size corresponding to the smallest memory and lowest bandwidth, i.e. the lowest common denominator, to ensure compatibility with all devices.","Consider a hypothetical situation in which a consumer orders a book or other digital work. If the digital work is too large to fit into the available memory of the user's device, then the download of the digital document will fail. Alternatively, if the work takes too long to download, the user may terminate the download. In either case, a sale may be lost, or the user may be charged for a work not received, depending on the fault tolerance of the distributor's system.","Applicant has discovered that portions of a work can be demarcated from the other portions thereof in a flexible and dynamic manner to be downloaded and used independently of other portions. Markers, i.e. flags, can be used to mark portions of the document that were downloaded and portions that were not downloaded. The flags and the content can be stored in the same memory device or in different memory device at different locations. Further, the flags can be stored in the user's device or stored in a remote central server, for example the distributor's server. A file containing the flags can be associated with the content of the work in any way. The flags (as the markers of the content) can inform the server that only certain portions of the document have been downloaded, and thus can be used to keep track of downloaded portions, to save memory space or transmission time. The flags can be used as a basis for the fee required from user  to be paid to the distributor  or clearing house . For example fees can be based on the amount of the content requested for download, or actually downloaded, during a download session. The invention can be adapted for use with the conventional distribution system illustrated in  or any other system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["210","200","130","210","240","210","240","210","220","200","210","230","220","220","230","220"]},"Accordingly, upon download of a portion of content file , flag file  can be created, changed, or otherwise manipulated, to include one or more flags indicating which portions of content file  have been downloaded. If flag file  is updated whenever portions of content file  are downloaded, distributor  or clearing house  can monitor how much, and which portions, of content file  have been downloaded. This permits user  to be charged only for downloaded portions of content file  or to be charged only once for the entire content of content file  and permitted to download remaining portions of content file  at subsequent times. In such cases, flag usage rights  might only let distributor , clearing house , or another authorized party, manipulate flags  so that user  or others cannot tamper with the download record.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["220","200","210","300","210","300","310","320","300","310","320","210","300","300","300","300"]},"In the preferred embodiment, the usage rights, in the form of content usage rights , are attached to content file  and are part of the digital work corresponding to content file . As the digital work is distributed, the scope of the granted usage rights will remain the same or may be narrowed. For example, when a digital work is transferred from a document server to another device, the usage rights may include the right to loan a copy for a predetermined period of time (called the original rights). When the device loans out a copy of the digital work, the usage rights in the loaner copy (called the next set of rights) could be set to prohibit any further rights to loan out the copy. The basic idea is that one entity or device cannot grant rights that are greater than the rights that the entity has.","The attachment of content usage rights  to content file  may be accomplished in a variety of ways as described in detail in the patents noted above and incorporated herein by reference. If the usage rights will be the same for all content in a digital work, content usage rights  can be attached when the digital work is processed for deposit in the server of distributor . An authoring tool or digital rights assembling tool can be utilized to create and attach the usage rights. For example, the XrML\u2122 rights language and related tools can be used.","Assuming the content in digital form, or a portion thereof, has been downloaded to a device, such as the user's personal computer, PDA, or the like, user  may begin reading the content, for example a book. However, user  most likely will not finish the book in one reading session. Accordingly, after the reading session, user  can manipulate flag file  to create flag  (serving as a digital bookmark) to mark the unread portion of the text. The manipulation can be accomplished by the user through the device standard interface using software running on the device or another coupled device or manipulation can be automatic. For example, when the user closes the application running the book or closes the file corresponding to the downloaded book content, flag file  can be manipulated accordingly. The newly created flag  is then saved in flag file  for the future use of user , or the use of other parties having authorization to access flag file  as specified by flag usage rights . User  can specify multiple flags for different locations in the book. The user can specify who will have authorization for access to flags , or the authorization can be supplied from a predetermined source, such as a database or directory.","User  can be more than one entity, in which case the multiple entities can have joint authorization for manipulation of flags  through flag usage rights . A multiple signature scheme or a voting scheme can be used to ensure proper authorization by joint users. Some users may be able exercise veto power. All such rights and rules can be implemented through flag usage rights  in a known manner. Access to flag usage rights , i.e. the ability to change the usage rights for flag file  can be granted in a similar manner.","Further, flags  can be in the form of calls, links, or other references to additional digital works  and thus can be used to permit the user to attach additional content data, such as one or more text documents, reminder notes, music, or multimedia pieces, to the content data in content file . Usage rights and flags can be assigned to a content file of the additional work  in a manner similar to content file . Accordingly, a hierarchical access scheme can be established. In other words, content is attached to other content via flags , which are attached to some other content via flags , in a pyramid or tree structure.","As, discussed above, one or more flags  can be used to demarcate a specific portion or portions of the content data in content file  to be selected, separated, cut, copied, printed, or otherwise processed in a desired manner. For example, in the case of the content of content file  being music, the frequency or volume of a portion of the music could be changed by demarcating that portion with flags . Further, the demarcated content portion can be filtered or compressed using an adaptive filtering or compression scheme. The demarcated portion also could be watermarked or encrypted selectively. A demarcated portion of content corresponding to a textbook or a speech can be marked for translation to another language, using a translation engine or a human translator. Furthermore, the default currency used for payment for the content can automatically be changed in accordance with the translation language requested by the user.","Memory devices, specifically those in portable devices, are not always reliable. Therefore, a loss of data may occur, such as when the device operating system crashes, or when the device is subject to mechanical or electrical shock. In such a case, user  may desire to download the same content data or portions of content data to replace the content lost from memory. Of course, user  may have already paid for the content data. Flags  in flag file  can be used for aggregation and maintaining records of downloads and payments by user . For example, flag file  can be stored on the server of distributor  or clearinghouse  and flags  can demarcate portions downloaded and\/or paid for by user . In such a case, flags  can be used for aggregating micropayments, i.e. plural relatively small payments, and charging the user at a future time, monthly or after downloading the entire content for example. Billing can be based on the credit limit user  applied for and obtained from distributor , clearinghouse , a credit card company, or other party financing the transaction. Also, flags  permit billing to be based on the portions of the content data purchased by user . Flags  can also be inserted automatically and be used to keep track of the reading habits (speed, frequency, and overall statistics) of user , based on the information gathered from many flags  during many sessions over a period of time.","In addition, flags  can be used to demarcate portions of a book or other content (by marking at least the beginning and the end of a portion of the content), from which a summary or abstract can be obtained automatically. Further usage rights and\/or fees can be separately assigned to the abstract or summary as well. For example, flags  can demarcate specific sentences or passages that convey the essence or a preview of the content for viewing as a summary. The demarcated portions can be merely parsed out of the content and presented as the summary. Alternatively, a neural network with fuzzy logic capability, or any other artificial intelligence engine, can be applied for proper organization and classification of the demarcated portions. Such an engine can be trained or tuned to organize the demarcated portions based on keywords or relevant topics. Examples of training algorithms for artificial intelligence are the iterative algorithm for obtaining a solution weight vector for linearly separable classes, and the training by back propagation method. In general, in a successful training session, the network error decreases with the number of iterations, and the procedure converges to a stable set of weights that exhibit only small fluctuations with additional training. Fuzzy logic engines (using membership functions and fuzzy set theory) provide more flexibility to the decision process. The decisions are not merely binary but can include fuzzy terms, such as \u201cLow\u201d, \u201cHigh\u201d, \u201cMany\u201d, and \u201cApproximately\u201d. This is useful for classification purposes. The obtained summary can be used for review purposes, for a database searched by a search engine, to direct the other users to the original book for further information. Demarcated words or other portions of the content data can be used for indexing a search engine using keywords\/phrases selected by author  or publisher  as opposed to keywords determined by the search engine.","Furthermore, flags  can be used for the collection of educational course materials or assignments by a course instructor or other person setting curriculum. In particular, portions of the content can be demarcated, parsed out, and saved by distributor  (or given directly to students), for automatic collection and transmission of portions from different works, and for keeping track of charges to the students for those portions, according to the prices assigned for those portions. Flag file  can be customized for Teaching Assistants, students, or the like. For example, the Teaching Assistant's flag file  may include demarcated portions having quiz answers and teaching aids. Of course such portions would not be demarcated by flag file  for students. It can be seen that one content file  can have plural flag files  or one flag file  can be associated with plural content files .","In addition, when traveling, the user can access a large amount of content stored on their home computer or elsewhere on their behalf using a hand-held device or a wireless device. Flags  can be used during unfinished downloads for large files to mark parts of the content for future downloads. The determination of required memory can be done automatically before a download procedure to streamline and optimize the downloading process by placing flags  in registers of flag file  demarcating content file  into portions of the desired size. Further, the system, such as a content server owned by distributor , can be configured to auto download the demarcated portions on a periodic basis.","Generally, flags  can be used for customization of content for each user by demarcating and keeping track of various portions of content. For example, each user can have one or more private and public libraries (a collection of books, book chapters, articles, or other works, selected by user ), to which others can be granted access, based on the user's assignment of content usage rights . There may be more than one library, one for each subject (for example, one for a history collection and one for a scientific literature collection), in which case an automatic classification based on key words or neural networks can facilitate the selection of the appropriate default library. Personal libraries are folders for flag files  and can be distributed to others to mark and\/or link content from various locations, such as various Web sties. The content of a library can be of any type or of any combination of types. The library allows the marked works to be easily correlated and retrieved for sale or other distribution.","User  can demarcate the name of books in a library (or alternatively, a small portion, a sample, or summary) by manipulating flags  and limiting content usage rights  by time, copies, or the like to encourage purchase of the content by peers for super distribution, i.e. redistribution by users . Group discounts referral points or monetary compensation can be given to the user for any redistribution.","Once the authorization granted by content usage rights  to use the content has expired, the content data can be automatically erased, or modified. For example, a the content data can be changed so a watermark or an intrusive message can appear on a rendered image, making the image useless or inconvenient. Or, for music, the frequency of demarcated ranges can be increased or silenced, making it unpleasant to listen to.","When content data is accessed from or stored on multiple servers or other devices, flags  can be used to keep track of servers for an optimized accessing scheme. For example, flags  can be used for identification and referral to a specific server for edge delivery of content over the Internet or any other network (as opposed to centralized content delivery), to solve the first-mile-bottleneck problem (related to traffic on the network and speed of delivery). Flag file  can be stored on or accessed by a central server which keeps track of flags  to allow various portions of content data to be demarcated for downloading from different servers based on load on each server or other characteristics and variables.","Another application of the preferred embodiment is in record keeping, such as laboratory notebooks or other notes kept by engineers, laboratory scientists and others. Conventionally, a laboratory scientist or engineer records test results, observations, and comments on a conventional paper lab notebook for future reference. The \u201clab notebook\u201d is continuous, cannot easily be altered, is initialed and dated by the user, witnessed by others, and often is stored in a physically secure place. Such procedures render laboratory notebooks valuable as reliable evidence in legal proceedings, such as for establishing the date of recorded activity. Because of the ability to tamper with digital records, digital records have not been utilized to a great extent as laboratory notebooks or other legal records.","To provide a comparable level of protection and integrity in a digital work, an electronic lab notebook can be provided, in which the text, figures, tables, or data can only be inserted at the end of the file. The text, figures, tables, or data can be changed, However, in such a case, all of the previous versions remain intact in the file for future inspection or auditing. The content data of the electronic lab notebook can be stored in content file  and previous versions can be demarcated by flags  to be hidden as a default for convenience and ease of review. The time and dates for each session can be recorded according to a secure and centralized clock, i.e. all entries are time-stamped, together with the electronic signatures, i.e. a code that can be attached to a document to uniquely identify an individual creating or modifying the document of the users and witnesses. Each session can be marked clearly by flags  and indexed in a database using an automatic search engine. The contents of the electronic laboratory notebook can be stored in content file  and the sessions, entries or previous versions are demarcated by flags  stored in flag file  and rights thereto are specified by content usage rights .","The overall work, or just content file , can be encrypted, or hash functions can be applied thereto, to insure the integrity of the data. A \u201chash value\u201d is a number generated from a string of binary value. The hash is substantially smaller than the original data itself, and is generated by a formula in such a way that it is extremely unlikely that some other data will produce the same hash value. Hash values thus can be used to ensure that content has not been tampered with. The creator generates a hash value of the content, encrypts it, and stores the hash value with the content in content file . An authorized user can subsequently decrypt both the content and the hash value and produce another hash value from the content. The original and the new hash value can then be compared. If they're the same, there is a very high probability that the content has not been tampered with.","The right to inspect or audit the electronic laboratory notebook can be different from the right to use the same and can be effected through content usage rights . For example, the right to inspect may be granted only to a judge or an attorney. A copy of content file , content usage rights , flag file , and flag usage rights file  corresponding to the electronic lab notebook can be transmitted to a neutral, trusted third party for safe and redundant storage. The third party preferably will not have the right to inspect the content. Plural electronic lab notebooks can be linked together or merged, in which case the encryption or hash functions should be employed again to get the resultant or total of the contents secured as a whole. The order of the changes or mergers can be recorded and demarcated by flags  for future auditing purposes.","The preferred embodiment can be applied to all types of the digital works having any content, such as magazines, movies, multimedia, speech, software, and music. Further, the preferred embodiment can be used in any type of distribution model such as those based on subscriptions, club membership, pay-per-view, set-top-boxes, quantity of usage, usage period of time, expiration date, number of printouts, number of copies, purchase, view, try-before-you-buy, or rental.","As noted above, different parties may have different usage rights. Accordingly, the identity of a party can be ascertained through the use biometrics (such as face recognition, iris recognition, eye recognition, fingerprint recognition, voice recognition, knuckle recognition, or hand recognition), signature analysis, Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) technology, password, device ID, smart cards, magnetic ID cards, and DRM schemes. Further, the usage rights can be granted only upon payment of a fee or other event. The content and flags of the preferred embodiment are separate files. However, the content and flags can be stored in any element and need not be separate files.","The distribution, accounting, and other functions of the distributor and clearinghouse can be accomplished by any party on any device. For example, the content can be rendered on an ebook reader or PDA in response to entry of a code or insertion of a smartcard into a reader and accounting can be accomplished when the digital work or accounting data is returned to a specific source. The division of tasks disclosed herein is only an example. Usage rights and or accounting data can be encapsulated with the digital work or can be stored separately. Code for rendering, decrypting, or otherwise permitting or limiting use of the content can be stored on any device or can be encapsulated with the digital work. Any distribution arrangement can be used with the invention and such arrangements can include any combination of devices, such as personal computers, servers, PDAs, and the like communicating with one another in any manner as is necessary to transfer the desired information.","The invention has been described through a preferred embodiment. However, various modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and legal equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING","p":["The invention will be described through a preferred embodiment and the attached drawing in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
