---
title: Patent-related tools and methodology for use in the merger and acquisition process
abstract: The present invention is related to patent-related tools, and methodologies involving those tools, for assisting in all stages of the merger and acquisition process. The IPAM server may be used in conjunction with the tools and methodologies to aid in the merger and acquisition process. These tools or methods include, but are not limited to, a topographic map, a technology classification, a SIC classification, a radar diagram, a patent citation tree, a citation root tree, a citation count report, a citation frequency graph, a citation frequency report, a patent count/year, an application count/year, a patent aging graph, a U.S. primary class/subclass, an international patent class, an assignee patent count report by primary class/subclass, a patent count graph by number of patents, a top assignees primary class/subclass by percent of total, a months to issue patents, a features grouping, a document annotation, an inventor patent count/assignee, an inventor patent count graph, and inventor data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07716060&OS=07716060&RS=07716060
owner: 
number: 07716060
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20010223
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO OTHER APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS","I. IPAM SERVER AND THE TOPOGRAPHIC MAP","II. IPAM SERVER AND TECHNOLOGY CLASSIFICATION","III. IPAM SERVER AND THE SIC CLASSIFICATION","IV. IPAM SERVER AND THE RADAR DIAGRAM","V. IPAM SERVER AND PATENT CITATION TREE","VI. IPAM SERVER AND CITATION ROOT TREE","VII. IPAM SERVER AND CITATION COUNT REPORT","VIII. IPAM SERVER AND CITATION FREQUENCY GRAPH","IX. IPAM SERVER AND CITATION FREQUENCY REPORT","X. IPAM SERVER AND PATENT COUNT\/YEAR","XI. IPAM SERVER AND APPLICATION COUNT\/YEAR","XII. IPAM SERVER AND PATENT AGING GRAPH","XIII. IPAM SERVER AND U.S. PRIMARY CLASS\/SUBCLASS","XIV. IPAM SERVER AND INTERNATIONAL PATENT CLASS","XV. IPAM SERVER AND ASSIGNEE PATENT COUNT REPORT BY PRIMARY CLASS\/SUBCLASS","XVI. IPAM SERVER AND PATENT COUNT GRAPH BY NUMBER OF PATENTS","XVII. IPAM SERVER AND TOP ASSIGNEES PRIMARY CLASS\/SUBCLASS BY PERCENT OF TOTAL","XVIII. IPAM SERVER AND MONTHS TO ISSUE","XIX. IPAM SERVER AND FEATURES GROUPING","XX. IPAM SERVER AND DOCUMENT ANNOTATION","XXI. IPAM SERVER AND INVENTOR PATENT COUNT\/ASSIGNEE","XXII. IPAM SERVER AND INVENTOR PATENT COUNT GRAPH","XXIII. IPAM SERVER AND INVENTOR DATA","XXIV. COMBINATION OF THE TOOLS OR METHODS","XXV. CONCLUSION"],"p":["The present application is a continuation-in-part application to the following applications:","\u201cPatent-Related Tools and Methodology for Use in Research and Development Projects,\u201d invented by Germeraad et. al., application Ser. No. 09\/545,564, Filed: Apr. 7, 2000, now pending (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cIntellectual Property Asset Manager (IPAM) for Context Processing of Data Objects,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., application Ser. No. 09\/260,079, Filed: Mar. 2, 1999, now pending (incorporated by reference in its entirety); and","\u201cPatent-Related Tools and Methodology for Use in the Merger and Acquisition Process,\u201d invented by Germeraad et. al., application Ser. No. 09\/560,889, Filed: Apr. 28, 2000, now pending (incorporated by reference in its entirety).","The present application is related to the following applications and patents:","\u201cSystem, Method, and Computer Program Product for Patent-Centric and Group-Oriented Data Processing,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,991,751, issued Nov. 23, 1999 from application Ser. No. 08\/867,392; Filed: Jun. 2, 1997 (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cUsing Hyperbolic Trees to Visualize Data Generated by Patent-Centric and Group-Oriented Data Processing,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., application Ser. No. 08\/921,369; Filed: Aug. 29, 1997, now pending (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cSystem, Method, and Computer Program Product for Managing and Analyzing Intellectual Property (IP) Related Transactions,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., application Ser. No. 09\/138,368; Filed: Aug. 21, 1998, now pending (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cMethod and Apparatus for Synchronizing, Displaying and Manipulating Text and Image Documents,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,623,681, issued Apr. 22, 1997, from application Ser. No. 08\/155,572, filed Nov. 19, 1993, issued (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cSystem and Method and Computer Program Product for Using Intelligent Notes to Organize, Link, and Manipulate Disparate Data Objects,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,806,079, issued Apr. 17, 1996 from application Ser. No. 08\/632,801; Filed: Apr. 17, 1996 (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cMethod and Apparatus for Synchronizing, Displaying and Manipulating Text and Image Documents\u201d, invented by Rivette et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,809,318, issued Sep. 15, 1998 from application Ser. No. 08\/832,971; filed Apr. 4, 1997 (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cSystem, Method, and Computer Program Product for Accessing a Note Database Having Subnote Information for the Purpose of Manipulating Subnotes Linked to Portions of Documents,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,950,214, issued Sep. 7, 1999 from application Ser. No. 09\/058,275; Filed: Apr. 10, 1998 (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cSystem and Method for Developing and Maintaining Documents,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,754,840, issued May 19, 1998, from application Ser. No. 08\/590,082, filed Jan. 23, 1996 (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cSystem, Method, and Computer Program Product for Generating Equivalent Text Files,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,799,325, issued Aug. 25, 1998, from application Ser. No. 08\/662,377, filed Jun. 12, 1996 (incorporated by reference in its entirety);","\u201cSystem, Method, and Computer Program Product for Managing and Analyzing Intellectual Property (IP) Related Transactions,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., application Ser. No. 09\/138,368; Filed: Aug. 21, 1998, pending (incorporated by reference in its entirety); and","\u201cSystem, Method, and Computer Program Product for Creating Subnotes Linked to Portions of Data Objects After Entering an Annotation Mode,\u201d invented by Rivette et al., application Ser. No. 09\/057,557; Filed: Apr. 9, 1998, pending (incorporated by reference in its entirety).","1. Field of the Invention","The invention is generally directed to methodologies related to the merger and acquisition process, and more particularly directed to patent-related tools and methodologies involving those tools for assisting in all stages of the merger and acquisition process.","2. Related Art","The merger and acquisition process typically goes through a variety of stages before Company A and Company B come to an agreement regarding the merger of the two, or the acquisition of one of the companies. A flowchart, as shown in , is the classic way to look at the merger and acquisition process.  illustrates that the merger and acquisition process may have, but is not limited to, four (4) stages. The four stages include an identify potential targets stage , an evaluate\/analyze stage , a due diligence stage  and a negotiation\/consummation\/integration stage  (hereafter \u201cnegotiation stage \u201d).","Prior to Company B even considering a merger and\/or acquisition of another company, Company B determines that it needs growth and\/or profits. Once this is determined, Company B may decide to consider a merger and\/or acquisition of another company to satisfy its desired growth and\/or profits. Management of Company B then sets relationship\/selection criteria for any merger or acquisition of another company it will consider.","The first stage in the merger and acquisition process is the identify potential targets stage . Here, the management of Company B has set the relationship\/selection criteria for any merger and\/or acquisition of another company it will consider.","The second stage is the evaluate\/analyze stage . Here, various companies are evaluated and analyzed for Company B to approach for possible mergers and\/or acquisitions. The management of Company B will make one or more recommendations of other companies to approach for a merger and\/or acquisition.","The next stage is the due diligence stage . Here, due diligence is conducted on each of the companies the management of Company B made a recommendation on in the evaluate\/analyze stage .","The final stage is the negotiation stage . In this stage, Company B conducts negotiations and\/or consummation and\/or integration of one or more companies that passed due diligence in the due diligence stage . The outcome of this stage is the possible merger or acquisition of another company that Company A has determined will satisfy its desire for growth and\/or profit.","It is possible to facilitate, expedite, and enhance the merger and acquisition process by building upon work that has been performed in the past. However, there are little if any automated tools for assisting in this process. There are even less automated tools that utilize patent-related tools for assisting in the merger and acquisition process.","The present invention is related to patent-related tools, and methodologies involving those tools, for assisting in the merger and acquisition process. In the present invention, the IPAM server may be used in conjunction with the tools and methodologies to aid in the merger and acquisition process. These tools or methods include, but are not limited to, a topographic map, a technology classification, a SIC classification, a radar diagram, a patent citation tree, a citation root tree, a citation count report, a citation frequency graph, a citation frequency report, a patent count\/year, an application count\/year, a patent aging graph, a U.S. primary class\/subclass, an international patent class, an assignee patent count report by primary class\/subclass, a patent count graph by number of patents, a top assignees primary class\/subclass by percent of total, a months to issue patents, a features grouping, a document annotation, an inventor patent count\/assignee, an inventor patent count graph, and an inventor data.","Further features and advantages of the invention, as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention, are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. The drawing in which an element first appears is typically indicated by the leftmost character(s) and\/or digit(s) in the corresponding reference number.","The present invention is related to patent-related tools, and methodologies involving those tools, for assisting in all stages of the merger and acquisition process.  illustrate features of embodiments of the present invention. The patents and pending U.S. applications cited above describe systems and methods for achieving the functions, functionality, reports, etc., represented in . Understanding of other methodologies represented in  (and variations and extensions thereof) will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) based on the teachings contained herein, and the teachings contained in the patents and pending U.S. applications cited above.","The present invention provides patent-related tools and methodologies for the merger and acquisition process. This may be accomplished through an Intellectual Property Asset Management (IPAM) server, which is described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled \u201cCross-Reference to Other Patents and Applications.\u201d The functionality of the present invention that is described herein as being performed by the IPAM server, is not limited to being performed by the IPAM server. For example, tools such as Excel spreadsheets, the IBM patent server, the USPTO public server, and Manning and Napier's search tools can all be used to perform some or most of the steps of the described methodologies. It is important to note that the exact platform used to perform the methodologies herein is not critical.","The IPAM server may be used in conjunction with the tools to aid in the merger and acquisition process. For convenience, the IPAM server will briefly be discussed herein, although the invention is not limited to this brief description.","Briefly stated, the IPAM server deals with context data processing. The IPAM server may be used to define and select one or more contexts. Each context includes one or more attributes, and a plurality of data objects that satisfy the attributes. A list of data objects contained in the selected contexts may be displayed. At least some of the data objects in the selected contexts may be processed. Such processing may involve generating hierarchical and\/or directed acyclic graph data structures to represent relationships among the data objects. These data structures can then be displayed in a variety of well-known techniques including, but not limited to, hyperbolic trees. Examples of such hierarchical or directed acyclic graph structures include claim trees, citation trees, and data object families, which may be displayed using hyperbolic trees.","In an embodiment, the contexts are groups. In another embodiment, the contexts are each associated with a data object type. In this latter embodiment, the contexts include data objects of their respective data object types.","The IPAM server also supports the generation of annotations. The IPAM server supports a plurality of annotation types, including document annotations, group annotations, data object type annotations, case annotations, and enterprise annotations. The IPAM server also supports form-based annotations.","In an embodiment, the IPAM server has a plug-in manager coupled thereto. Also included may be at least one plug-in coupled to the plug-in manager, and at least one external data processing component coupled to the plug-in. In an embodiment, the external data processing component displays data using at least graphs. In another embodiment, the external data processing component displays data using at least maps. The plug-in manager has a first application programming interface (API), and each external data processing component has a second API. The plug-in translates messages from the plug-in manager to the external data processing component to a format conforming to the second API, and translates messages from the external data processing component to the plug-in manager to a format conforming to the first API.","Embodiments of the IPAM server can process, display, and otherwise operate with patent equivalent text files (EQV) (or other types of files or data) to aid in the merger and acquisition process in different stages, although the invention is not limited to this embodiment. Patent equivalent text files are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,623,681, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. A patent equivalent text file includes equivalency information that establishes an equivalency relationship between the text in the patent equivalent text file and the image in the patent image file. For example, this equivalency information may include pagination information that enables the patent equivalent text file to be displayed having the same pagination (line breaks, column breaks, page breaks) as the patent image file. In an embodiment, a pagination module generates the patent equivalent text file by comparing the patent text in the patent text file with the patent image file to detect equivalency information. This equivalency information is then embedded in the patent equivalent text file, along with the patent text. While the pagination module is capable of performing the pagination operation automatically, in some cases some manual intervention is required. In accordance, an operator is sometimes involved with the pagination process performed by the pagination module.","In the present invention, the IPAM server may be used in conjunction with the tools and methodologies to aid in the merger and acquisition process.  is an example overview of the tools that map to each stage in the merger and acquisition process (). The mapping provided in  is presented for illustration purposes only. Other uses and applications of the invention will be apparent based on the teachings contained herein. These tools or methods include (when they are incorporated with IPAM server), but are not limited to, a topographic map , a technology classification , a SIC classification , a radar diagram , a patent citation tree , a citation root tree , a citation count report , a citation frequency graph , a citation frequency report , a patent count\/year , an application count\/year , a patent aging graph , a U.S. primary class\/subclass , an international patent class , an assignee patent count report by primary class\/subclass , a patent count graph by number of patents , a top assignees primary class\/subclass by percent of total , a months to issue patents , a features grouping , a document annotation , an inventor patent count\/assignee , an inventor patent count graph , and inventor data .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["201","201","202","204","206","208","210","226","214","216","218","228","234","212","224","230","232","236","238","220","222","240","242","244","246"]},"The following describes each tool or method and how it may be combined with the IPAM server to aid in the merger and acquisition process. As each of these tools or methods are described below, an exemplary graphical presentation may be used. It should be noted that the particular exemplary graphical presentation used is for convenience purposes only and the invention is not limited to that particular graphical presentation. For example, a bar chart can be also implemented as a pie chart, radar or spider charts, two or three dimensional graphs, etc., and vice versa.","At times the present invention relates to a portfolio. Although the present invention is described with reference to a patent portfolio, the present invention is not limited to patents. In fact, the present invention applies to any item that another party may take a license for, including trademarks, software programs, know-how (e.g., trade secrets) and so forth.","The same tool may be used in different ways to facilitate different stages in the merger and acquisition process. Other uses of tools will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) based on the teachings contained herein.","Referring to , the IPAM server incorporates the topographic map  to facilitate the identify potential targets stage  (as Tool ), the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools , ,  and ), and the negotiation stage  (as Tools ,  and ). How the IPAM server and topographic maps are incorporated together to produce contour maps is described in detail in the commonly owned patent application, Intellectual Property Asset Manager (IPAM) for Context Processing of Data Objects, invented by Rivette et al., application Ser. No. 09\/260,079, filed: Mar. 2, 1999, now pending (incorporated by reference in its entirety).  illustrates the topographic map  facilitating the identify potential targets stage  and the evaluate\/analyze stage  as Tool , entitled \u201cTopographic Map Company A Patents.\u201d","A. Tool  and the Identify Targets Stage and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage","In , the topographic map  as Tool  is shown. The purpose of Tool  in the identify potential targets stage  and the evaluate\/analyze stage  is to use the topographic map  to show dominance or area of focus of Company A's portfolio and the distinguishing area of patent concentration. In an embodiment of the present invention, all subsidiaries of Company A are provided by searching the Edgar database or by the competitive intelligence department.","In one embodiment of the present invention, Tool  uses Cartia's ThemeScape to create the topographic map  and thus create conceptual visualizations of dominance or area of focus. The x-y plane shows related concepts in relative proximity. In the z-axis, forming mountains and valleys, is the frequency of concepts represented in the patent group. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the topographic map  to aid in the identify potential targets stage  and the evaluate\/analyze stage  is described next with reference to . Typically, Tool  is initiated by the user selecting a topographic map function on the computer screen.","In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , searches are performed on a general area of technology. Control then passes to step .","In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs one or more searches on U.S. patents portfolio to identify products, uses and technologies covered in Company A's patent portfolio. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each patent is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents (this is also true for all of the searches discussed herein). Here, the search performed is typically, but is not limited to, a boolean and\/or natural language search on the product, use and\/or technology to produce a group of patents that identify products, uses and\/or technologies covered in Company A's patent portfolio. The user interface of the IPAM server is described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled \u201cCross-Reference to Other Patents and Applications.\u201d For illustration,  each show an exemplary screen shot of the IPAM server's user interface relating to the boolean and\/or natural language search described herein. The present invention is not limited to these exemplary screen shots. Control then passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server is used to produce one or more of topographic map  (on desired search groups) having a map with contours and labels indicating areas related to the products, uses and\/or technologies searched in step . Here, the group of patents produced in step  is further divided into subgroups, with each subgroup relating to a different product, use and\/or technology. Typically, this is done by the user selecting a topographic map function on the computer screen. The topographic map  produced by Tool  () shows the pattern of subjects of all of the patents produced in step  (e.g., shows products, uses and\/or technologies covered by Company A's patent portfolio). Labels on the topographic map  indicate the products, uses and\/or technologies, and the contours indicate how many U.S. patents exist for each subgroup area. The topographic map  shows dominance or areas people are focusing on. Control then passes to step .","In step , the user company studies the topographic map  produced by Tool  and determines whether the exact area of the product, use and\/or technology is included in the topographic map . If the outcome to step  is positive, then control passes to step . Alternatively, control passes to step .","In step , an area related to the product, use and\/or technology was not included in the topographic map . Here, the user can determine if another area that is shown in the topographic map  is worth further exploration. Control then passes to step .","In step , the user selects the contour (or label) of interest in the topographic map . This is typically done by the user \u201cclicking\u201d on the contour of interest. Control then passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server processes the subgroup of U.S. patents that are included in the contour of interest indicated by the user in step . Again, topographic map  is displayed with contours, but this time the topographic map  is more specific to exactly the user's contour (or area) of interest. Now, the topographic map  shows the different types of products, uses and\/or technologies that are in the contour of interest. At this point, the user may use the IPAM server as described in detail in the applications and patents referenced above in the section entitled \u201cCross-Reference to Other Patents and Applications.\u201d Here, flowchart  ends.","B. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Negotiation Stage","In  the topographic map  as Tool  is shown. The purpose of Tool  in the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the negotiation stage  is to use the topographic map  to show dominance of Company B's portfolio and the distinguishing area of patent concentration. It also shows the \u201cwhite space\u201d between various technologies and uses that could be the basis of post-merger business development. In an embodiment of the present invention, all subsidiaries of Company B are provided by searching the Edgar database or by the competitive intelligence department. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the Tool  is similar to Tool , as described above with reference to .","C. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Negotiation Stage","In , the topographic map  as Tool  is shown. The purpose of Tool  in the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the negotiation stage  is to use the topographic map  to show concept relationship of each party's (Company A's and Company B's) patents, and distinguishes if the patents overlap or compliment each other. Tool  determines if the merger will allow for growth in an existing or new area. This forms the basis for a favorable\/unfavorable recommendation during the evaluate\/analyze stage  and moves the valuation up or down in the negotiation stage . How the IPAM server works in conjunction with Tool  is similar to Tool , as described above with reference to . Here, the search is done by each company name to distinguish patent concentration of combined portfolio, maps are printed for each search done, and transparencies are printed to show overlap or compliment of portfolios. The search is performed to produce patents of both Company A and Company B.","D. Tool and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Negotiation Stage","In , the topographic map  as Tool is shown. The purpose of Tool in the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the negotiation stage  is to use the topographic map  to show dominance or area of technology focus of Company A's industry and the distinguishing areas of patent concentration in the competitive landscape. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with Tool is similar to Tool , as described above with reference to .","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the technology classification  to facilitate the identify potential targets stage  and the evaluate\/analyze stage  as Tool . In general, the technology classification  identifies technologies in a company's patent portfolio.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["204","102","104","17","17","102","104","204","102","104","17"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all Company A's patents. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each patent is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. Here, the search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the assignee to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step  and further divides it into subgroups, with each subgroup having the same technology classification. When the search in step  is on the group of U.S. patents, the classification used is the U.S. Patent Classification designated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In a similar manner, if the search in step  is on the group of International patents, then the classification used would be the IPC classification. The IPAM server may store the U.S. Patent Classification (or IPC classification) in a meta-data field that will also need to be searched to determine the technology classification, but is not limited to this. Exemplary screen shots of the user interface of the IPAM server to assist the user company in searches relating to U.S. Patent Classifications are shown in . The present invention is not limited to these exemplary user interfaces. Control then passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server is used in conjunction with a technology classification  to create a graphical representation of similar technologies. The technology classification  produced by Tool  () shows the diverse technologies (via U.S. Patent Classifications) that Company A's patents cover. The graphical representation in  is a pie chart, which was created using Excel, but is not limited to Excel. In fact, the present invention is not limited to using a pie chart, but could also use radar or spider charts, two or three dimensional graphs, etc.","Referring to , the U.S. Patent Classification  represents the most common type of technology that is covered by Company A's patents. Therefore, the technology included in U.S. Patent Classification  is well-covered by Company A's patents. In contrast, the technology included in U.S. Patent Classification  is sparsely-covered by Company A's patents.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the SIC classification  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  as Tool . In general, the SIC classification  indicates which market segments can use the products and services.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0137"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 10"],"b":["206","104","18","18","104","18","206","104","18"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all patents and\/or applications owned by Company A and\/or of interest to Company A. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each patent and\/or application is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. Here, the search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the product, use and\/or technology to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step  and further divides it into subgroups, with each subgroup having the same technology classification. When the search in step  is on U.S. patents, the classification used is the U.S. Patent Classification designated by the U.S. patent and Trademark Office. Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) classification codes are provided by the U.S. Department of Commerce. In a similar manner, if the search in step  is on the International patents and applications, then the classification used would be the IPC classification. The IPAM server may store the U.S. Patent Classification and IPC classification each as a meta-data field that will also need to be searched to determine the technology classification, but is not limited to this. Control then passes to step .","In step , each U.S. and IPC classification determined by step  is mapped (e.g., via a look-up table) to its related SIC classification. Control then passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server is used in conjunction with a SIC classification  to create a graphical representation of similar industrial markets. Typically, this is done by the user selecting a related market function on the computer screen. The SIC classification  produced by Tool  () shows the diverse markets (via SIC Classifications) that apply to Company A's patents. The graphical representation in  is a pie chart. The present invention is not limited to using a pie chart. The flowchart  at this point ends.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the radar diagram  to facilitate the identify potential targets stage  and the evaluate\/analyze stage  as Tool . In general, the radar diagram  identifies technology synergy of merger.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0144","num":"0143"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 12"],"b":["208","102","104","26","26","208","102","104"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all Company A's and Company B's patents. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the primary class designation to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the group of patents that resulted from step  are sorted by assignee (to separate Company A's and Company B's patents). Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server is used in conjunction with radar diagram  to create a graphical representation of technology synergy of merger. Flowchart  ends at this point.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent citation tree  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools and ), the due diligence stage  (as Tools and ) and the negotiation stage  (as Tools , and ). Citation trees are described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled \u201cCross-Reference to Other Patents and Applications.\u201d In general, the patent citation tree  provides a view of which companies can block and\/or circumvent other companies' patents (note that the icons can display dates relevant to the patents in the tree).","A. Tool and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage, the Due Diligence Stage, and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0150","num":"0149"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 14"],"b":["210","104","106","108","8","8","104","106","210","104","106","108","8"],"i":["a","a ","a "]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. Here, the search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the product, use and\/or technology to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step  and further performs a forward citation on each of the patents, that has the same patent class (technology area) of the user company, to create a patent citation tree . Forward citations are described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled \u201cCross-Reference to Other Patents and Applications.\u201d The nodes in the patent citation tree  may be color coded (or indicated by another means) by assignee to allow the user to pick out color patterns easily. Exemplary screen shots of the user interface of the IPAM server to assist the user company in searches relating to forward citation are shown in . The present invention is not limited to these exemplary user interfaces. The flowchart  ends at this point.","B. Tool and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0154","num":"0153"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["210","108","8","8","210"],"i":["b","b "]},"This is a powerful visualization tool for the negotiation team. It shows the other side the depth of the analysis and the value of the patent under discussion. The patent citation tree  also identifies for the negotiation team how fast the technical area is moving and how many companies are involved. In addition, it visually shows the uniqueness of the patent under discussion, and from the richness of the tree, how valuable it is. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with Tool is similar to Tool , as described above with reference to . Here, the patent citation tree  is created by running the forward citation analysis for key patents which will transfer as part of the merger.","C. Tool and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage, the Due Diligence Stage, and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0157","num":"0156"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["210","104","106","108","8","8"],"i":["c","c "]},"In addition, the patent citation tree  produced by Tool shows how unique, mature, expansive, and inner-related the technology is that stems from the patent being evaluated. When dates are put in the nodes, it also shows the merger and acquisition team how fast moving the various branches of the tree are growing. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with Tool is similar to Tool , as described above with reference to . Here, the patent citation tree  is created by running the forward citation analysis for key patents which will transfer as part of the merger.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the citation root tree  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tool ), the due diligence stage  (as Tools and ) and the negotiation stage  (as Tools and ). Nested patent citation trees (or citation root trees) are described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled \u201cCross-Reference to Other Patents and Applications.\u201d In general, during the merger and acquisition process, the user company can look at the citation root tree  to predict related technology\/markets under exploration by other companies. Patents lag the technology due to the inherent delays in patent prosecution. Thus, if the user finds a very recent patent, it may not have any forward citations since any patents that might cite it are months or years away from issuing. Thus, it would not be possible to see how the technology is developing relative to this patent since it has no forward citations.","This tool utilizes a technique that involves going back one or more generations from a given patent, and then performing forward citations on the prior generations. This identifies a patent family that is a result of a unique combination of backwards and forwards citation processing. The resulting tree indicates who is involved, and which fields are probably around the base patent. It's an approach to look into the future of a given technology (how the technology may develop in the future). Date contours (or contours according to some other criteria) is also applicable with this tool (and with all hyperbolic trees generated by the invention).","A. Tool and the Due Diligence Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0161"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 18"],"b":["212","106","108","10","10","212","212","212","106","108","10"],"i":["a","a ","a "]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of the user company's patents that address the user company's fastest moving technology areas. These patents may include U.S., European, and Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the product, use and\/or technology to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server determines the prior generation patent of each patent produced in step  (e.g., goes back one citation for each patent). Exemplary screen shots of the user interface of the IPAM server to assist the user company in searches relating to reverse citation are shown in . The present invention is not limited to these exemplary user interfaces. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step  and further performs three forward citations on each of the patents to create a citation root tree . The nodes in the citation root tree  may be color coded by assignee to allow the user to pick out color patterns easily. Exemplary screen shots of the user interface of the IPAM server to assist the user company in searches relating to forward citation are shown in . The present invention is not limited to these exemplary user interfaces. The flowchart  ends at this point.","B. Tool and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage, the Due Diligence Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0166"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 18"],"b":["212","104","106","108","10","10","212","212","10","10"],"i":["b","b ","b ","a"]},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the citation count report  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the due diligence stage  (as Tool ). In general, the citation count report  identifies frequently cited patents having the most value in the portfolio.  illustrates the citation count report , used in the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the due diligence stage , as Tool , entitled \u201cCitation Count Report 1Level on U.S. Patents.\u201d The purpose of Tool  is to create a report that identifies patents that have been frequently cited in the 1level forward. This will identify the most valuable patents in Company A's portfolio to further investigate in the due diligence stage . How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the citation count report  to aid in the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the due diligence stage  is described with reference to . Tool  is typically initiated by the user selecting a citation count report function on the computer screen.","In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all patents and\/or applications. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each patent and\/or application is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the product, use and\/or technology to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , one forward citation is performed on each patent produced in step . Control passes to step .","In step , the patents are sorted by assignee to produce the citation count report  requested by the user. It is also useful to sort by citation count. Flowchart  ends at this point.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the citation frequency graph  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools  and ) and the due diligence stage  (as Tools  and ). In general, the citation frequency graph  identifies possible patents and companies cited in the development of a patent infringement by other companies.","A. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Due Diligence Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0174","num":"0173"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 23"],"b":["216","104","106","5","5","106","216","104","106","5"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step  in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all patents and\/or applications. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each patent and\/or application is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on an assignee to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the patents are sorted by year cited to produce the citation frequency graph  requested by the user. Flowchart  ends at this point.","B. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Due Diligence Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0178","num":"0177"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 23"],"b":["216","104","106","9","9","8","216","9","5"]},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the citation frequency report  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools  and ) and the due diligence stage  (as Tools  and ). In general, the citation frequency report  identifies which patents from which companies have the most value.","In addition,  is an exemplary screen shot of a report produced by the IPAM server to assist the user company in searches relating to patent velocity in U.S. Patent Classifications according to an embodiment of the present invention.","A. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Due Diligence Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0182","num":"0181"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 27"],"b":["218","104","106","6","6","218","218","104","106","6"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step  in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all patents and\/or applications. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each patent and\/or application is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the product, use and\/or technology to produce a group of patents. Also in step , one forward citation is done on each patent of the company. Control passes to step .","In step , the patents from step  are sorted by patent number. Control passes to step .","In step , the patents in each resulting subgroup are sorted by year to produce the citation frequency report  requested by the user. Flowchart  ends at this point.","B. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Due Diligence Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0186"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 27"],"b":["218","104","106","7","7","7","7","5","7","6"]},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent count\/year  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools , and ), the due diligence stage  (as Tools , and ), and the negotiation stage  (as Tools and ). In general, the patent count\/year  identifies the intensity of development in portfolios.","A. Tool and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage, the Due Diligence Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0190","num":"0189"},"figref":["FIG. 29","FIG. 30"],"b":["220","104","106","108","12","12","12","220","104","106","108","12"],"i":["a","a ","a ","a "]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step  in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each patent and\/or application (e.g., of Company A and Company B) is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the assignee to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the patents from step  are sorted by year to produce the patent count\/year  requested by the user. Flowchart  ends at this point.","B. Tool and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Due Diligence Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0194","num":"0193"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 30"],"b":["220","104","106","12","12","220","12","12"],"i":["b","b ","b ","a"]},"C. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage, the Due Diligence Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0196","num":"0195"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 30"],"b":["220","104","106","108","13","13","13","13","12"],"i":"a"},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the application count\/year  to facilitate the due diligence stage  and negotiation stage  (as Tool ). In general, the application count\/year  identifies level and rate of change in patent portfolios.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0198","num":"0197"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 34"],"b":["222","106","108","14","14","222","14","222","106","108","14"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of published patent applications, but is not limited to this. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each patent is typically the section that is searched, but again is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the assignee to produce a group of published applications. Control passes to step .","In step , the group of published applications that results from step  is further divided into subgroups by assignee\/company (the group may contain multiple assignees). Control then passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server is used in conjunction with recent patent applications chart  to create a chart that indicates the top assignees\/companies in a related area to the product, use and\/or technology searched in step . Here, the group of patents produced in step  may be further divided into subgroups, with each subgroup having published applications filed in the same year and related to the idea to produce the application count\/year  requested by the user. At this point flowchart  ends.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent aging graph  to facilitate the due diligence stage  (as Tools  and ) and the negotiation stage  (as Tools  and ). In general, the patent aging graph  identifies the number of years until patent expiration.","A. Tool  and the Due Diligence Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0204","num":"0203"},"figref":["FIG. 35","FIG. 36"],"b":["224","106","108","15","15","224","106","108","15"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents owned by the company. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on assignee. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server sorts the patents in the resulting group from step  by years to expire to produce the patent aging graph  requested by the user. At this point flowchart  ends.","B. Tool  and the Due Diligence Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0208","num":"0207"},"figref":["FIG. 37","FIG. 36"],"b":["224","106","108","16","16","16","15"]},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the U.S. primary class\/subclass  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the diligence stage  (as Tool ). In general, the U.S. primary class\/subclass  determines highest patent count by primary class\/subclass.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0210","num":"0209"},"figref":["FIG. 38","FIG. 39"],"b":["226","104","106","19","19","106","226","104","106","19"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents owned by the company. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on an assignee. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server sorts the patents in the resulting group from step  by primary class\/subclass to produce the U.S. primary class\/subclass  requested by the user. At this point flowchart  ends.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the international patent class  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the diligence stage  (as Tool ). In general, the international patent class  determines highest patent count by international class.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0214","num":"0213"},"figref":["FIG. 40","FIG. 41"],"b":["228","104","106","19","19","106","228","104","106","19"],"i":["a","a ","a "]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all European patents owned by the company. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on European patents, but may include any patent and\/or application that is classified by an international class. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on an assignee. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server sorts the patents in the resulting group from step  by international class to produce the international patent class  requested by the user. At this point flowchart  ends.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the assignee patent count report by primary class\/subclass  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools  and ) and the negotiation stage  (as Tool ). In general, the assignee patent count report by primary class\/subclass  provides an overall view of competitive landscape for both companies by class\/subclass.","A. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0219","num":"0218"},"figref":["FIG. 42","FIG. 43"],"b":["230","104","108","20","20","20","230","104","108","20"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents owned by the one or more companies (i.e., assignees). The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on a primary class. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server sorts the patents in the resulting group from step  by number of patents. In an embodiment of the present invention, the IPAM server may also sort each resulting subgroup by number of patents. At this point flowchart  ends.","B. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0223","num":"0222"},"figref":["FIG. 44","FIG. 43"],"b":["230","104","108","23","23","23","108","23","20"]},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent count graph by number of patents  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools  and ). In general, the patent count graph by number of patents  provides an overall view of competitive landscape for both companies by number of issued patents.","A. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0226","num":"0225"},"figref":["FIG. 46","FIG. 47"],"b":["232","104","24","24","232","104","24"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents owned by the one or more companies (i.e., assignees). The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on a primary class Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server sorts the patents in the resulting grouping (or in each resulting subgroup) from step  by number of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server selects the top 15-20 assignees to produce the patent count graph by number of patents  requested by the user. At this point flowchart  ends.","B. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0231","num":"0230"},"figref":["FIG. 45","FIG. 47"],"b":["232","104","2","21","21","24"]},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the top assignees primary class\/subclass by percent of total  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools  and ). In general, the top assignees primary class\/subclass by percent of total  provides an overall view of competitive landscape for both companies by percent of total in class\/subclass.","A. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0234","num":"0233"},"figref":["FIG. 48","FIG. 49"],"b":["234","104","22","22","234","104"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents owned by the one or more companies (i.e., assignees). The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on a primary class Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server sorts the patents in the resulting group from step  by patent count. Control then passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server determines the percentage of total patents for the top 15-20 assignees produced in step  to produce the top assignees primary class\/subclass by percent of total  requested by the user. At this point flowchart  ends.","B. Tool  and the Evaluate\/Analyze Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0239","num":"0238"},"figref":["FIG. 50","FIG. 49"],"b":["234","104","25","25","25","22"]},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the months to issue  to facilitate the due diligence stage  and the negotiation stage  (as Tool ). In general, the months to issue  indicates whether all of the art is at the negotiation table.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0241","num":"0240"},"figref":["FIG. 51","FIG. 51","FIG. 52"],"b":["236","106","108","11","11","11","236","106","108","11"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on a primary class. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server sorts the patents in the resulting group from step  by year to create subgroups of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server, for each patent in each of the subgroups created in step , subtracts the patent's issue date from its filing date. Control then passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server calculates, for each subgroup of patents, the average prosecution time for its patents and displays the results to the user to produce the months to issue  requested by the user. Flowchart  ends at this point.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the features grouping  to facilitate the due diligence stage  and the negotiation stage  (as Tool ) and to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  and the negotiation stage  (as Tool A). In general, the features grouping  indicates whether certain products and\/or services are covered by patents.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0247","num":"0246"},"figref":["FIG. 53","FIG. 54"],"b":["238","106","108","31","31","238","238","31","31","31"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the groups of patents covering the company's own products and competitor's products and\/or product attributes analyzed by reverse engineering the company's own products and competitor's products. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on this, but may include other available documents and\/or attributes. Here, the search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on product attributes which are sorted and grouped to create interactive maps of patented products or service features. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server is used in conjunction with the features grouping chart  to create a chart showing groupings of product and\/or service features. Flowchart  ends at this point.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the document annotation  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage , the due diligence stage  and the negotiation stage  (as Tool ). In general, the document annotation  allows for the immediate, linked, and searchable documentation of facts and ideas.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0251","num":"0250"},"figref":["FIG. 55","FIG. 56"],"b":["240","104","106","108","32","32","240","104","106","108","32"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the groups of patents and\/or corporate documents, but is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on the product, use and\/or technology to produce a group of patents and\/or corporate documents. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server allows the user to make and store annotations on one or more of the patents and\/or corporate documents in the group produced by step . Flowchart  ends at this point.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the inventor patent count\/assignee  to facilitate the evaluate\/analyze stage  (as Tools  and ), the due diligence stage  (as Tools  and ) and the negotiation stage  (as Tools  and ). In general, the inventor patent count\/assignee  determines whether there are joint development agreements\/ventures which may impact a possible merger.","A. Tool  and the Evaluate\/analyze Stage, the Due Diligence Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0256","num":"0255"},"figref":["FIG. 57","FIG. 58"],"b":["242","104","106","108","27","27","242","104","106","108","27"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the groups of Company A's patents and corporate documents, but is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on assignee. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server sorts the group of resulting patents and\/or corporate documents by inventor and number of patents to produce the inventor patent count\/assignee  requested by the user. Flowchart  ends at this point.","B. Tool  and the Evaluate\/analyze Stage, the Due Diligence Stage and the Negotiation Stage",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0260","num":"0259"},"figref":["FIG. 59","FIG. 58"],"b":["242","104","106","108","28","28","28","27"]},"Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the inventor patent count graph  to facilitate the due diligence stage  and the negotiation stage  (as Tool ). In general, the inventor patent count graph  identifies inventors with the most inventions in a portfolio.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0262","num":"0261"},"figref":["FIG. 60","FIG. 61"],"b":["244","106","108","29","29","244","106","108","29"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. Here, the search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on assignee to produce a group of patents. Exemplary screen shots of the user interface of the IPAM server to assist the user company in searches relating to inventors are shown in . The present invention is not limited to these exemplary user interfaces. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server generates an inventor patent count graph  that indicates the top inventors in Company A. Here, the group of patents produced in step  are further subdivided into subgroups by inventor and number of patents. As with assignee information, the IPAM server may store the inventor information of patents in a meta-data field that will also need to be searched to determine the inventor information, but is not limited to this. Flowchart  ends at this point.","Referring to , the IPAM server works in conjunction with the inventor data  to facilitate the due diligence stage  and the negotiation stage  (as Tool ). In general, the inventor data  identifies the average number of inventors per patent.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0266","num":"0265"},"figref":["FIG. 62","FIG. 63"],"b":["246","106","108","30","30","246","106","108","30"]},"In , a flowchart  begins at step . In step , in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here, because the user is just pointing at a broad field, the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched, but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents, but may include European, Japanese (and other available) patents and\/or applications. Here, the search performed is typically a boolean and\/or natural language search on assignee to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .","In step , the IPAM server determines the number of inventors for each patent in the resulting group of patents from step . As with assignee information, the IPAM server may store the inventor information of patents in a meta-data field that will also need to be searched to determine the inventor information, but is not limited to this. Flowchart  ends at this point.","It is important to note that most, if not all, of the tools or methods described above may be combined to interactively go back and forth between different tools. The integration of tools discussed herein to facilitate the merger and acquisition process is limitless.","While various application embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not limitation. Thus, the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES","p":["The present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 33"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 36"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 37"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 38"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 39"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 40"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 41"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 42"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 43"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 44"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 45"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 46"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 47"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 48"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 49"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 50"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 51"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 52"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"figref":"FIG. 53"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 54"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 55"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 56"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 57"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"figref":"FIG. 58"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0088"},"figref":"FIG. 59"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 60"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0090"},"figref":"FIG. 61"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 62"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 63"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":"FIGS. 64-67"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIGS. 68-71"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIGS. 72-75"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIGS. 76-80"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIGS. 81-85"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIGS. 86-97"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":"FIG. 98"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
