---
title: Bus control module for improving legacy support
abstract: Systems, devices and methods are provided for expanding an interface to a computer. According to one aspect, a device is provided, including a backplane and at least one expansion card. The backplane includes at least one expansion slot and an upstream connector for connecting with the computer. The expansion card is adapted for coupling with the expansion slot. The expansion card includes at least one port to provide an interface with the computer. According to one aspect, an apparatus is provided, including a control module, a hub coupled to the control module and adapted for providing USB/USB+ outputs, and an external functions unit coupled to the hub and adapted for providing outputs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06904530&OS=06904530&RS=06904530
owner: Digi International Inc.
number: 06904530
owner_city: Minnetonka
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010418
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/551,299, filed on Apr. 18, 2000 now abandoned, the specification of which is incorporated herein by reference.","(1) Field of the Invention","The invention relates to systems and methods for providing expansion capabilities outside of a personal computer.","(2) Background","Some prior art systems employ an uninterruptible power supply (UPS) in which an alternating current to direct current (AC to DC) converter receives an AC signal, from for example, a wall socket, and converts the signal to DC which is used to charge a battery within the UPS. A DC signal is reconverted to AC and supplied back out to connected devices. In the event of a power outage, the UPS permits an orderly shut down of the system by supplying power previously stored in the battery. Typically, external devices expect to receive 220 or 110 volts AC from a standard electrical outlet. The battery power is converted from DC to the expected 110 or 220 volts AC. Such devices typically each have their own internal AC to DC converter. Using that converter, the power supplied is again converted to DC for use in the device.","The traditional personal computer (PC) or workstation market is based on expansion capability of the unit. This has typically included such bussing structures as ISA, EISA and PCI, as well as PCMCIA cards, all of which fall under the broad category of legacy expansion methods. Price pressures and size reduction demands have necessitated providing for relatively small number of external connectivities. The recent trend has been to move the PC in the direction of a sealed box. This trend tends to increase the relative difficulty of power management of the overall system, as well as legacy support.","According to one aspect, a device is provided, including a backplane and at least one expansion card. The backplane includes at least one expansion slot and an upstream USB connector for connecting with the computer. The expansion card is adapted for coupling with the expansion slot. The expansion card includes at least one port to provide an interface with the computer.","According to one aspect, an apparatus is provided, including a control module, a hub coupled to the control module and adapted for providing USB\/USB+ outputs, and an external functions unit coupled to the hub and adapted for providing outputs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["136","138","140","136","40","80","136","50","26","40","64","66","70","72","74","76","60","62","42"]},"It is also within the scope and contemplation of the invention for various legacy support modules , such as support for PCI or ISA to be fabricated to modularly attach to the housing . In such embodiments, housing  provides coupling points  for engagement by the snap-on modules . Mechanical and electrical connections  on the housing  retain each module firmly in place while providing power and communication between the module and the main unit. Power and communication may be provided through a USB link in one embodiment of the invention. The housing  may also provide connection ports for non-legacy I\/O, such as USB or 1394 buses. In this manner, an extra port  may be modularly added to the unit.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["36","26","36","36","14","14","14","12","16","14","20","14","20","14","16","16","18","18"]},"In any case, the battery  supplies power to a DC\/DC converter  which generates desired DC voltages, such as +5 volts, for use by USB and other circuitry. Moreover, by supplying devices with DC rather than AC additional conversion steps are avoided. Since current external devices expect AC, integration of the USB hub and functions with the control module and UPS permits those devices to be supplied DC directly reducing system costs.","It is also within the scope and contemplation of the invention to supply the PC  with DC power via the control and monitor module . Alternatively, the power supplied to the PC may be the traditional 220 or 110 volts AC. The USB and monitor module  monitors each subunit of UPS . Additionally, the control and monitor module  controls a plurality of switches  which provide external power. Thus, in low power modes, the control and monitor module can select to leave one, all, none, or any combination of the externally powered devices powered. Control and monitor module also controls and monitors the power supplied to internal functions  and external modems , as well as USB hub . By providing additional independently controllable switches , internal functions  may be powered or left unpowered depending on the desired power state of the system.","Firmware within the control and monitor module can provide legacy conversion from various legacy protocols to USB so that data received using such legacy protocols can be forwarded to the PC over the USB link for processing.","By moving the legacy support to an external module outside of the PC, cost and size of the PC is diminished. Additionally, by providing control of each subunit and each external connection through a central control and monitor module, control of the overall power consumption of the system is facilitated. Moreover, while legacy support can be moved outside the PC, the UPS and control unit also serves as an ideal connection point for non-legacy devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["33","60","62","64","66","68","68","69","71","33","54","72","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["74","76","78","72","74","80","82","74","72","76","78","76","78","84","72","76","72","78","72","76","76","78","72","84"]},"Each slot  and  has a slot identification signal that allows expansion card firmware to determine if the expansion card  is a Master  or a Slave  card. There is no need for any hardware modification to set up a Master or a Slave device. The Master card's upstream USB connection  comes from an external device while the Slave card's USB upstream connection comes from the Master card, both through the backplane . According to one embodiment, the Master slot  contains one upstream (from an external device) and one downstream (to the Slave slot) USB connection (from the Master slot). The Master slot also contains UPS status and control signals.","According to one embodiment, the expansion card  is a USB card that is capable of being plugged into one of the expansion slots  or  of the backplane . According to one embodiment, the expansion card  provides combinations of one or more of the following: legacy RS232 serial port(s) ; legacy IEEE 1284 parallel port(s) ; Internet connector(s) ; modem connector(s)  for a regular modem or DSL modem; network connector(s) ; or application specific connector(s) ; and USB\/USB+ expansion ports.","The expansion card  is powered from the backplane board . As such, it draws no power from the upstream USB port, and reports itself as a self-powered device to the operating system. The USB Upstream port  provides a data connection to the host computer. According to one embodiment, it draws no power from the USB cable. The USB Upstream port is not connected directly to the upstream port of the internal USB function. It is routed to the backplane board instead where it is routed back to the upstream port of the internal USB function in the Master slot and not connected anywhere in the Slave slot(s). This allows the same cards to be used in both the Master and the Slave slots. The USB\/USB+ Downstream port(s)  provide a data connection or both a data and a power connection to an external USB device. RS232 serial port(s)  and IEEE 1284 parallel port(s)  provide legacy connectivity for the host computer.","An edge connector  connects the expansion card  to the backplane board . The backplane board  carries the power and power return lines for both Master and Slave slots. Furthermore, according to one embodiment, the backplane board  carries the status and control lines of the UPS for the Master slots, the USB signals between the USB connector and the Master slot, the USB signals between the Master and Slave slots, and the slot identifier signal for the Master and Slave slots.","According to other embodiments, the expansion card  supplies a number of additional I\/O signals that are read using an \u201cout-of-band\u201d mechanism separate from the UART (Universal Asynchronous Receiver\/Transmitter) ports provided on the card. This mechanism is supplied by a number of \u201cvirtual\u201d COM ports which enable application software to monitor and control the additional I\/O functions. In general, application software may treat a \u201cvirtual\u201d COM port in the same way as a real COM port using standard API (Application Programming Interface) functions.","Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiment shown. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention. Therefore, it is intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
