---
title: Method of fabricating an oxide layer on a silicon carbide layer utilizing an anneal in a hydrogen environment
abstract: Silicon carbide structures are fabricated by fabricating a nitrided oxide layer on a layer of silicon carbide and annealing the nitrided oxide layer in an environment containing hydrogen. Such a fabrication of the nitrided oxide layer may be provided by forming the oxide layer in at least one of nitric oxide and nitrous oxide and/or annealing an oxide layer in at least one of nitric oxide and nitrous oxide. Alternatively, the nitrided oxide layer may be provided by fabricating an oxide layer and fabricating a nitride layer on the oxide layer so as to provide the nitrided oxide layer on which the nitride layer is fabricated. Furthermore, annealing the oxide layer may be provided as a separate step and/or substantially concurrently with another step such as fabricating the nitride layer or performing a contact anneal. The hydrogen environment may be pure hydrogen, hydrogen combined with other gases and/or result from a hydrogen precursor. Anneal temperatures of 400° C. or greater are preferred.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07067176&OS=07067176&RS=07067176
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07067176
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20011026
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["The present application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/968,391 entitled \u201cMETHOD OF NO GROWTH OF AN OXIDE LAYER ON A SILICON CARBIDE LAYER\u201d filed Oct. 1, 2001, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,767,843 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/294,307 entitled \u201cMETHOD OF NO GROWTH OF AN OXIDE LAYER ON A SILICON CARBIDE LAYER\u201d filed May 30, 2001 and claims priority from, and is a continuation-in-part of, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/834,283, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,610,366, filed Apr. 12, 2001 entitled \u201cMETHOD OF NO ANNEALING AN OXIDE LAYER ON A SILICON CARBIDE LAYER\u201d which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/237,822, entitled \u201cMETHOD OF IMPROVING AN INTERFACE BETWEEN A SILICON CARBIDE LAYER AND AN OXIDE LAYER\u201d and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/237,426 entitled \u201cSIC POWER MOSFET AND METHOD OF FABRICATION\u201d which were filed Oct. 3, 2000. The disclosures of each of the above-cited applications are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.","The present invention was developed with Government support under contract number F33615-99-C-2914 awarded by the United States Air Force Wright Labs. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates to the fabrication of semiconductor devices and more particularly, to the fabrication of oxide layers on silicon carbide (SiC).","Devices fabricated from silicon carbide are typically passivated with an oxide layer, such as SiO, to protect the exposed SiC surfaces of the device and\/or for other reasons. However, the interface between SiC and SiOmay be insufficient to obtain a high surface mobility of electrons. More specifically, the interface between SiC and SiOconventionally exhibits a high density of interface states, which may reduce surface electron mobility.","Recently, annealing of a thermal oxide in a nitric oxide (NO) ambient has shown promise in a planar 4H-SiC MOSFET structure not requiring a p-well implant. See M. K. Das, L. A. Lipkin, J. W. Palmour, G. Y. Chung, J. R. Williams, K. McDonald, and L. C. Feldman, \u201cHigh Mobility 4H-SiC Inversion Mode MOSFETs Using Thermally Grown, NO Annealed SiO,\u201d IEEE Device Research Conference, Denver, Colo., June 19-21, 2000 and G. Y. Chung, C. C. Tin, J. R. Williams, K. McDonald, R. A. Weller, S. T. Pantelides, L. C. Feldman, M. K. Das, and J. W. Palmour, \u201cImproved Inversion Channel Mobility for 4H-SiC MOSFETs Following High Temperature Anneals in Nitric Oxide,\u201d IEEE Electron Device Letters accepted for publication, the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein. This anneal is shown to significantly reduce the interface state density near the conduction band edge. G. Y. Chung, C. C. Tin, J. R. Williams, K. McDonald, M. Di Ventra, S. T. Pantelides, L. C. Feldman, and R. A. Weller, \u201cEffect of nitric oxide annealing on the interface trap densities near the band edges in the 4H polytype of silicon carbide,\u201d Applied Physics Letters, Vol. 76, No. 13, pp. 1713-1715, Mar. 2000, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein as if set forth fully. High electron mobility (35-95 cm\/Vs) is obtained in the surface inversion layer due to the improved MOS interface.","Unfortunately, NO is a health hazard having a National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) health danger rating of 3, and the equipment in which post-oxidation anneals are typically performed is open to the atmosphere of the cleanroom. They are often exhausted, but the danger of exceeding a safe level of NO contamination in the room is not negligible.","Growing the oxide in NO is possible as described in J. P. Xu, P. T. Lai, C. L. Chan, B. Li, and Y. C. Cheng, \u201cImproved Performance and Reliability of NO-Grown Oxynitride on 6H-SiC,\u201d IEEE Electron Device Letters, Vol. 21, No. 6, pp. 298-300, June 2000, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein. Xu et al. describe oxidizing SiC at 1100\u00b0 C. for 360 minutes in a pure NO ambient and annealing in Nfor 1 hour at 1100\u00b0 C.","Post-growth nitridation of the oxide on 6H-SiC in NO at a temperature of 1100\u00b0 C. has also been investigated by Lai et al. P. T. Lai, Supratic Chakraborty, C. L. Chan, and Y. C. Cheng, \u201cEffects of nitridation and annealing on interface properties of thermally oxidized SiO\/SiC metal-oxide-semiconductor system,\u201d Applied Physics Letters, Vol. 76, No. 25, pp. 3744-3746, June 2000, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein. However, Lai et al. concluded that such treatment deteriorates the interface quality which may be improved with a subsequent wet or dry anneal in Owhich may repair the damage induced by nitridation in NO. Moreover, even with a subsequent Oanneal, Lai et al. did not see any significant reduction in interface state density as compared to the case without nitridation in NO.","In addition to NO and NO growth and annealing, research has also been conducted on post growth anneals in other environments. For example, Suzuki et al. investigated post oxidation annealing in hydrogen. Suzuki et al., \u201cEffect of Post-oxidation-annealing in Hydrogen on SiO\/4H-SiC. Interface,\u201d Material Science Forum, Vols. 338-342, pp. 1073-1076, 2000. These researchers reported that flat-band voltage shift and interface state density could be improved by post oxidation annealing in both argon and hydrogen. In this research, 4H-SiC was oxidized in dry Oat 1200\u00b0 C. Post oxidation annealing was then carried out in argon or hydrogen for 30 minutes at 400\u00b0, 700\u00b0, 800\u00b0 and 1000\u00b0 C. Other researchers, however, have reported that post oxidation anneals in hydrogen provide no increased benefit over post oxidation anneals in other gases. Mrinal Das, \u201cFundamental Studies of the Silicon Carbide MOS Structure,\u201d Doctoral Thesis, Purdue University, submitted December, 1999.","Embodiments of the present invention provide for fabricating a silicon carbide structure by fabricating a nitrided oxide layer on a layer of silicon carbide and annealing the nitrided oxide layer in an environment containing hydrogen. Such a fabrication of the nitrided oxide layer may be provided by forming, annealing or forming and annealing the oxide layer in at least one of nitric oxide, nitrous oxide and\/or an ambient containing a reactive nitrogen species. Alternatively, the nitrided oxide layer may be provided by fabricating an oxide layer and fabricating a nitride layer on the oxide layer so as to provide the nitrided oxide layer on which the nitride layer is fabricated. Such a formation of a nitride layer may both provide the nitrided oxide layer and hydrogenate the nitrided oxide layer as hydrogen may be a byproduct of the formation of the nitride layer. Furthermore, in such embodiments, hydrogen annealing the oxide layer may be provided substantially concurrently with the step of fabricating the nitride layer.","In particular embodiments of the present invention, the silicon carbide layer comprises 4H polytype silicon carbide. The silicon carbide layer may be a silicon carbide layer on a non-silicon carbide substrate, a silicon carbide layer on a silicon carbide substrate and\/or a portion of a silicon carbide substrate.","In further embodiments of the present invention, annealing the oxide layer is provided by a subsequent processing step which heats the oxide layer to a temperature of greater than about 400\u00b0 C. in a hydrogen containing environment whether it be a part of a separate anneal step or other such processing step. In other embodiments of the present invention, the oxide layer is annealed at a temperature of greater than about 400\u00b0 C. in a hydrogen containing environment. The oxide layer may also be annealed at a temperature of between about 400\u00b0 C. and about 1000\u00b0 C. in a hydrogen containing environment. In particular embodiments of the present invention, the oxide layer is annealed at a temperature of less than about 900\u00b0 C. in a hydrogen containing environment. Preferably, the oxide layer is annealed at a temperature of between about 400\u00b0 C. and about 800\u00b0 C. in a hydrogen containing environment. Additionally, the anneal may be carried out for a time of greater than about 2 minutes.","In still further embodiments of the present invention, processing steps subsequent to the anneal in a hydrogen containing environment high temperature processing steps are also carried out in a hydrogen containing environment.","In additional embodiments of the present invention, the hydrogen anneal is preceded by forming metallization for a semiconductor device associated with the oxide layer. In such embodiments, the hydrogen anneal of the oxide layer can be provided by annealing the oxide layer at a temperature of less than about 900\u00b0 C. in a hydrogen containing environment. In such embodiments, the annealing of the oxide layer may be a contact anneal. Additionally, a silicon carbide metal oxide semiconductor device may be formed having the oxide layer as a gate oxide of the metal oxide semiconductor device.","In particular embodiments of the present invention, the nitrided oxide is annealed in forming gas having about 4% hydrogen and about 96% inert gases.","In still further embodiments of the present invention, an oxide layer on a silicon carbide layer is fabricated by nitriding the oxide layer on the silicon carbide layer with at least one of nitric oxide and nitrous oxide and annealing the nitrided oxide layer at a temperature of between about 400\u00b0 C. about 900\u00b0 C. in a hydrogen containing environment for at least about 2 minutes.","The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings, the thickness of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. It will be understood that when an element such as a layer, region or substrate is referred to as being \u201con\u201d another element, it can be directly on the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being \u201cdirectly on\u201d another element, there are no intervening elements present.","Embodiments of the present invention provide methods which may improve the interface between an oxide layer and SiC in any device which includes such an interface. These methods are especially advantageous in the fabrication of Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (MOS) devices created on SiC. Using embodiments of the present invention, interface states with energy levels near the conduction band of SiC may be dramatically reduced. Reduction of such defects may be advantageous, because these defects may limit a MOS device's effective surface channel mobility.","Embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to  which are flow charts illustrating operations according to particular embodiments of the present invention. As illustrated in , embodiments of the present invention utilize an anneal of a nitrided oxide layer to further reduce interface state densities at the silicon carbide oxide boundary. As used herein, the term nitrided oxide layer refers to oxide layers formed or subsequently annealed (as a separate anneal step and\/or as subsequent processing such as the deposition of a nitride or oxynitride layer) in the an atmosphere which yields chemically reactive nitrogen species, such as nitrogen precursors, including nitric oxide (NO) and\/or nitrous oxide (NO), and\/or as part of a processing step where a reactive nitrogen species is a byproduct, to thereby introducing nitrogen into the layer.","Turning to , a silicon carbide layer is provided (block ). The SiC layer may be an epitaxial layer and\/or a substrate. A nitrided oxide layer is provided on the silicon carbide layer (block ). The nitridation may be provided, as described herein, by growth and\/or anneal in an NO and\/or NO environment. Similarly, nitridation of the oxide layer may be provided by processing steps for deposition of a nitride layer on the oxide layer, for example, in an oxide-nitride (ON) or oxide-nitride-oxide (ONO) structure. ONO and ON structures are described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6,246,076, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. For embodiments where the nitrided oxide layer is provided by an anneal, the oxide layer may be formed by deposition, such as Low Pressure Chemical Vapor Deposition (LPCVD), thermally grown through a thermal oxidation process and\/or formed using other techniques. Preferably, the oxide layer is formed utilizing a wet reoxidation process as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,972,801, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.","The nitrided oxide layer is annealed in a hydrogen containing environment (block ). Such an anneal may be a separate processing step or may be part of a subsequent deposition or other such process, for example, the deposition of a nitride layer on an oxide layer in a wet environment may provide both the nitridation and anneal. The anneal is preferably carried out at a temperature of greater than about 400\u00b0 C. and less than about 1000\u00b0 C. Preferably, the anneal is carried out at a temperature of from about 400\u00b0 C. to about 800\u00b0 C. The anneal is preferably carried out for about 2 or more minutes.","The anneal in a hydrogen containing environment may be carried out immediately after nitridation or intervening steps may be performed before the anneal. Thus, as illustrated in , the anneal may be provided as a subsequent processing step which provides a contact anneal. As seen in , a nitrided oxide layer is provided on a SiC layer (blocks  and ). Further device fabrication may then be performed to provide a silicon carbide semiconductor device (block ). As part of or separate from the device fabrication, contact metallization is fabricated for the device (block ). The contact metallization is then subjected to a contact anneal in a hydrogen containing environment (block ), preferably at a temperature of greater than about 400\u00b0 C. and less than about 900\u00b0 C. Thus, the contact anneal provides at least part of the anneal of the nitrided oxide layer in a hydrogen containing environment. Subsequent high temperature processing steps are then also carried out in a hydrogen containing environment (block ).","For example, in a silicon carbide metal oxide semiconductor device, the anneal may be provided subsequent to metallization of the device by performing a contact anneal in a hydrogen containing environment at a temperature of less than about 900\u00b0 C. Thus, for example, the oxide layer may provide a gate oxide of a metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor (MOSFET). The contact anneal may anneal the contacts of the device as well as provide the anneal of the nitrided oxide. Whenever in the fabrication process the anneal of the nitrided oxide layer takes place, it may be preferred that subsequent high temperature (i.e. processing at temperatures greater than about 400\u00b0 C.) processing be conducted in a hydrogen containing environment.","As used herein, the term hydrogen containing environment refers to hydrogen and\/or a hydrogen precursor either alone or in combination with other gases. For example, a forming gas of 4% hydrogen and 96% argon may be utilized for the hydrogen anneal. Similarly, the hydrogen may be provided by a hydrogen precursor, such as NHand\/or may be a byproduct of a processing step. Thus, the present invention should not be construed as limited to pure hydrogen environments but includes hydrogen and\/or hydrogen precursors as a constituent gas with other gases as well.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","12","12","14","10","14","1","2","10","3","10","16","10","1","18","18","2","12","18","10","10","20","18","3","18","2","3"],"sub":["2","2","2"]},"As is seen in , the heated gases  may reach a temperature at which the NO begins to break down into its constituents at the end of the L distance. This distance may depend on the physical characteristics of the furnace tube , the predetermined temperature profile and the flow rate profile. The heated gases  also traverse the distance L before reaching the wafers . The amount of time that it takes the heated gases to traverse the distance L is referred to herein as an \u201cinitial residence time.\u201d Preferably, the heated gasses are maintained at a substantially constant temperature corresponding to an anneal temperature of greater than about 1100\u00b0 C. or an oxidation temperature of at least about 1200\u00b0 C. for the initial residence time. However, as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art, differing heating profiles could be utilized which increase or decrease the initial residence time. It may be preferred, however, that the heating profile be rapid such that the initial residence time is substantially the same as the time that the heated gases  are maintained at an anneal temperature of greater than about 1100\u00b0 C. or an oxidation temperature of at least about 1200\u00b0 C. before traversing the L distance.","The total amount of time that it takes the heated gases  to traverse the distance L+L is referred to herein as the \u201ctotal residence time.\u201d As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure, these residence times depend on the velocity of the heated gases  through the furnace tube  which may be determined based on the flow rates of the heated gases  and the cross-sectional area of the furnace tube . Such velocities may be average velocities, for example, if turbulent flow is achieved, or may be actual velocities, for example, in laminar flow systems. Thus, the term velocity is used herein to refer to both average and actual velocities.","As discussed above, the nitrided oxide layer may be provided by, among other ways, growth and\/or anneal in an NO and\/or an NO environment. NO growth and\/or annealing as described above may be utilized alone or in combination with NO growth and\/or annealing. If the nitrided oxide layer if provided by growth and\/or annealing in an NO environment, it is preferred that such growth and\/or annealing be carried out at a predetermined temperature and a predetermined flow rate as described herein.","For NO annealing, preferably, the oxide is annealed using a predetermined temperature profile which includes an anneal temperature of greater than about 1100\u00b0 C. in a chamber in which NO is supplied at a flow rate profile within predetermined flow rate limits. Preferably, the temperature of the anneal is about 1175\u00b0 C. or higher and more preferably, about 1200\u00b0 C. may be utilized. The flow rate limits of NO may be selected based on the particular equipment in which the process is used. However, in particular embodiments the flow rate limits of NO may be as low as about 2 Standard Liters per Minute (SLM) or as high as about 8 SLM. In further embodiments, flow rate limits of from about 3 to about 5 SLM may be preferred. For particular furnaces as illustrated in , gas velocities as low as about 0.37 cm\/sec or as high as about 1.46 cm\/sec or velocities of from about 0.55 cm\/s to about 0.95 cm\/s may be suitable. In particular, for an L distance of about 12 inches (about 30.48 cm) and an L distance of about 18 inches (about 45.72 cm), such velocities result in an initial residence time of from about 11 seconds to about 45 seconds and a total residence of from about 28 seconds to about 112 seconds. In particular preferred embodiments, the initial residence time is from about 16 seconds to about 31 seconds and a total residence time of from about 41 to about 73 seconds. The NO and\/or NO anneal may be carried out for about 3 hours, however, anneals of from about 30 minutes to about 6 hours may also be utilized although longer times may also be utilized.","For NO growth, preferably the SiC wafers  are oxidized using a predetermined temperature profile which includes an oxidation temperature of greater than about 1200\u00b0 C. in a chamber in which NO is supplied at a flow rate profile within predetermined flow rate limits. Preferably, the temperature of the oxidation is about 1300\u00b0 C. The flow rate limits of NO may be selected based on the particular equipment in which the process is used. However, in particular embodiments, the flow rate limits of NO may be as low as about  Standard Liters per Minute (SLM) or as high as about 6 SLM or higher. In further embodiments, flow rate limits of from about 3.5 SLM to about 4 SLM may be preferred. Thus, for a particular apparatus, gas velocities as low as about 0.37 cm\/sec or as high as about 1.11 cm\/sec may be utilized, while velocities of from about 0.65 cm\/s to about 0.74 cm\/s may be preferred. In particular, for an L distance of about 12 inches (about 30.48 cm) and an L distance of about 18 inches (about 45.72 cm), such velocities result in an initial residence time of from about 11 seconds to about 33 seconds and a total residence time of from about 28 seconds to about 84 seconds. In particular preferred embodiments, the initial residence time is from about 19 second to about 22 seconds and the total residence time is from about 49 to about 56 seconds. The NO oxidation may be carried out for an amount of time dependent on the desired thickness of the oxide layer. For example, oxidation times of about 3 hours or greater may be utilized. As used herein, NO refers to pure NO or NO in combination with other oxidizing agents, such as steam, O, and\/or inert gases.","Oxidation in an NO and\/or NO environment and\/or anneals in an NO and\/or NO environment may be followed by an optional anneal in inert gas or gases, such as argon and\/or Nor combinations thereof with other gases. Such an anneal may be carried out for about 1 hour, however, anneals of up to about 3 hours or longer may also be utilized.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIGS. 3 through 6","FIG. 3","FIGS. 4A"],"sub":["2","2"],"b":["4","5","6"]},"As shown in , the solid line represents a thermally grown oxide without nitridation. At lower temperatures (1100\u00b0 C.), exposing an existing oxide to NO increases the interface state density, as shown by comparing the heavy solid line representing a thermal oxide to the data for the same thermal oxide exposed to an 1100\u00b0 C. NO anneal. At 1200\u00b0 C., the thermal oxide is significantly improved with the NO anneal. Thermal oxides processed in a wet ambient may be further improved by the 1200\u00b0 C. NO anneal, as seen by comparing the solid circle to the open circle data. Further improved results were obtained using a 1300\u00b0 C. NO anneal process (the DRY-1300 line) and the 1300\u00b0 C. NO growth process (the 1300 grown line). At this temperature, the oxidation of SiC is significant. So, in addition to annealing existing oxides in NO, some oxides were grown in the NO ambient (500 \u212b was grown in 3 hours). Growing the oxide in NO may save about 9 hours of processing time over annealing an existing oxide in NO, by eliminating the oxidation step. As is seen in  by comparing the Dry-1300 line to the 1300 grown line, substantially the same results were obtained regardless of whether the oxide was grown prior to NO processing or grown in NO.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A and 4B","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4B","FIG. 4A"],"sub":["2","IT "],"b":["180","182","184","186","180","184"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"sub":"2","b":["190","192"],"sup":"\u22122 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"sub":"2","b":["200","202"]},"In the drawings and specification, there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and, although specific terms are employed, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation, the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":["IT ","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5","sub":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 6","sub":"2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
