---
title: Communication system with wireless electronic mail or messaging integrated and/or associated with application program residing on remote computing device
abstract: A wireless communications system is provided that enables a user to send data pertaining to the shipment and/or delivery of goods, preferably from a handheld device, to at least one data file associated with at least one respective application program residing on a remote computing device. The application program rapidly receives the sent data and integrates the data into at least one data file associated therewith, thereby enabling more timely and efficient business operations. In a preferred embodiment, user input is minimized by using a macro feature, and users can input data fields in any order without affecting the performance or reliability of the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06938099&OS=06938099&RS=06938099
owner: Motient Communications Inc.
number: 06938099
owner_city: Lincolnshire
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20010731
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/222,036, filed on Jul. 31, 2000, entitled \u201cCommunication System with Wireless Electronic Mail Integrated and\/or Associated with Application Program on Remote Computing Device\u201d, incorporated herein by reference.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention generally relates to wireless communications and, more particularly, to a wireless communications system that enables a user to send data pertaining to the shipment and\/or delivery of goods via a wireless transmission to, for example, a delivery system having at least one data file or data format associated with at least one application program residing on a remote computing device.","2. Background of the Related Art","Mobile communications are a widely used throughout the world for remote communication. E-mails and phone calls can be initiated and received on current mobile communication devices. The present invention applies various features to the trucking\/shipping industry where remote personnel may communicate information with a remote computer. This allows information to be transferred more efficiently and quickly than existing methods.","Currently, wireless transmission of e-mails is known.  is a diagram showing the outline of the whole structure of an automatic data transfer system illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 5,933,478 incorporated herein by reference. In  number  represents a handheld terminal device, numeral  represents a host computer for the communication with the handheld terminal device, and numeral  represent a public telephone line. In addition numeral  represents a base station for transmitting a message to the handheld terminal device  over radio waves, and numeral  represents a handheld phone base station for the communication with the handheld terminal device , over radio waves.","Host computer  transmits a message to handheld terminal device  via the base station . This message contains an identifier of a file to be fetched by the handheld terminal device . Upon reception of the message, the handheld terminal device  performs data communications with the host computer  by using a handheld phone function thereof, and fetches the file (or electronic mail) designated by the message.","A flow diagram of an Automatic Character Format routine is shown in , from U.S. Pat. No. 5,621,875 incorporated herein by reference. The Automatic Character Format routine operates in the automatic formatting mode to automatically apply the selected character format to any number of portions of existing text thereafter selected by the user. The selected character format is so applied until the user exits the automatic formatting mode or enters new text from a keyboard. The Automatic Character Format routine is called by the word processing program and by the Text Entry routine. Whenever the Automatic Character Format routine is called, the word processing system converts to automatic formatting mode, if not already operating therein.","In step , the Automatic Character Format routine sets the selected character format to be automatically applied to the text selected by the user. The routine sets the character format by storing a status string as an identifier identifying the selected character format in the format status field  of the text format data structure . For example, if a bold character format has been selected by the user, then the status string \u201cON\u201d is stored in the format status field corresponding to the format option field containing the string \u201cBOLD\u201d. In step , the Automatic Character Format routine indicates that a character format has been set to be automatically applied. The routine indicates this by displaying the selection cursor in a form specific to character selection. When a paragraph format is selected instead of, or in addition to, a character format, the selection cursor  is instead displayed in a form specific to paragraph selection.","Alternatively, the selection cursor contains a format indication area, and indicates the specifically selected character format by displaying an appropriate symbol in the format indication area. This symbol could be a character, such as \u201cI\u201d for italics, or an icon, a color, etc., as screen space and resolution permits. In the alternative embodiment wherein multiple text formats are selected, the multiple character formats would be indicated with multiple symbols in the format indication area of the text selection cursor, also as screen space and resolution permits. The format symbol remains displayed in the format indication area for as long as the selected text format remains selected to be automatically applied in the automatic formatting mode.","In step , the routine determines whether an additional character format has been selected by the user. If so, control branches to step , wherein the Automatic Character Format routine is again called to apply the additional character format. If not, control proceeds to step , wherein the routine determines whether a paragraph format has been selected by the user. If so, control branches to step , wherein the Automatic Paragraph Format routine is called to additionally apply the paragraph format selected. If not, control proceeds to step . After performing either the Automatic Character Format or the Automatic Paragraph Format routine, the routine returns.","In step , the Automatic Character Format routine determines whether the cancel button, has been selected by the user to cancel the selected character format. If so, the routine branches to step  wherein the status strings in the format status fields are removed and the word processing system converts to the conventional mode. The routine then returns. If the Automatic Character Format routine determines in step  that the user has not selected the cancel button, then control proceeds to step . The routine determines in step  whether the user has selected a key on the keyboard to enter new text. If so, control branches to step  wherein the routine removes the status strings stored in the format status fields  of the text format data structure. Control then proceeds to step  wherein the Text Entry routine, is called and the word processing system converts to the conventional mode. The Text Entry routine enters the text into the text document, as has been explained. The Automatic Character Format routine then returns.","If the Automatic Character Format routine determines in step  that a key has not been selected, then control proceeds to step  wherein the routine determines whether the user has initiated a text selection indicating a portion of text to which to apply the character format selected in the automatic formatting mode.","The user initiates a text selection by moving the mouse  to position the text selection cursor  on a word displayed on the display, and then depressing the mouse button on the mouse while the text selection cursor is so positioned. If the user has not initiated a text selection, then the routine loops back to step  and continues to check for user input in steps ,  and . If the Automatic Character Format routine determines in step  that the user has initiated a text selection, then control proceeds to step . In step , the routine determines whether the user has clicked the mouse on a single word or dragged the mouse across multiple words. The user clicks the mouse on a single word by releasing the depressed mouse button while the text selection cursor is positioned anywhere on the displayed word. The user drags the mouse across multiple words by holding the mouse button down and moving the mouse to move the cursor from anywhere on the first word initially selected to a position anywhere on a last word to be selected.","If, in step , the Automatic Character Format routine determines that the user has clicked on a word, then control proceeds to step . In step , the routine reads the text format data structure, and formats each character in the word clicked on to have the text formats indicated in the format status fields as selected by the user. The formatting of a given character or set of characters is a conventional operation well-known to those skilled in the art. An insertion point which defines the location and format of characters thereafter typed is also formatted to have the character format selected. The routine then loops back to step  to continue to check for user input. Thereafter, text entered in step  also has the selected character format.","If the routine determines that the user has dragged the mouse across multiple words, control branches to step  wherein the routine formats each character in each of the multiple words, from the first to last word selected, to have the text formats indicated in the format status fields as selected by the user. The insertion point is also formatted to have the character format selected. The routine then loops back to step  to continue to check for user input. If the user neither clicks nor drags the mouse in step , control loops to step , and the routine continues to check for user input.","Mobile communications systems are known in the art for providing a communications link between a user of a mobile communications device (e.g., a handheld device) and a stationary base or mobile vehicle. Mobile communication devices can be linked via a network to provide greater range and\/or service. One such network is the ARDIS\u00ae network (\u201cnetwork\u201d)  in FIG. . Networks of this nature provide secure, portable, two-way communication between handheld wireless data terminals, mobile data terminals, and their respective host computers.","As shown in , the network  is a terrestrial wireless two-way data network that allows subscriber units such as an intelligent terminal or computing device , handheld device , or other communications device  to communicate with their respective host computer  and each other without a phone line connection. Subscriber units , , , therefore, typically have a radio frequency (RF) modem for sending and receiving signals.","The network  has over 1750 base stations  providing service to cities and towns throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, and U.S. Virgin Islands. Each base station  covers a radius of approximately 15-20 miles. The base stations  are radio frequency towers that transmit or receive radio signals between subscriber units , ,  and the Radio Frequency\/Network Control Processors (RF\/NCPs) . Base stations  transmit and receive radio signals, preferably using a narrow band FM transceiver operating in the 800 MHz frequency band. There are separate frequencies for the transmit path and the receive path; together these two frequencies represent a full duplex channel that normally transmits data at 4800 bps in both directions. In operation, for a message \u201cinbound\u201d to the network  from a subscriber unit , , , the signal is \u201cheard\u201d by the base stations  and sent over a phone line  to a RF\/NCP . The network  employs an automated roaming capability that allows the free movement of subscriber units , ,  between cities and between multiple channels within a given city. This capability allows the subscriber units , ,  to freely move (roam) across the country and take advantage of all the network  services that are available in every locale.","The RF\/NCPs  are high-speed computers that interconnect multiple base stations  with the ARDIS\u00ae Service Engine(s) (ASEs) . A number of RF\/NCPs  are located together serving a particular geographical area, each being connected by high speed digital phone service to one of the ASEs , which route messages to a destination such as a customer host computer  that is directly connected to the network  by, for example, a leased telephone line or a value added network. RF\/NCPs  pass information relating to source, destination and length of each message to an ASE  that enables the network  to do network analysis of traffic density in, for example, each city. An ASE , in turn, passes information back to a RF\/NCP  concerning whether the subscriber unit , ,  is properly registered to the network  and, if so, what level of service is provided to the respective subscriber unit , , . The RF\/NCPs also help manage the roaming capability of the network . Subscriber units , ,  can automatically move (roam) between any of the network  frequencies on either of the two protocols (MDC 4800 and RD-LAP19.2), or between any of the configured network  layers that have been configured for in-building or on-street usage.","The ACEs  are general purpose computers that act as the heart of the network . The ACEs  route messages to the proper destination, store subscribe registration information including entitlement, and perform accounting and billing functions. The ACEs  also serve as a point of connectivity to customer host computers , perform protocol conversion, and perform network  troubleshooting and test functions. A plurality of ASEs  are interconnected through dedicated leased lines, with alternate paths available from each switch as a contingency measure against line interruptions.","The wireline network  provides communication between the customer host computers , the ACEs , the RF\/NCPs , and the base stations . The wireline network  is equipped with sophisticated communications equipment that relays customer messages. This equipment includes intelligent multiplexers, leased telephone circuits, high-speed modems or digital service units, and modems for both RF\/NCP  and customer host computer  connectivity.","Presently, however, within the transportation industry, we have determined that communications systems are not utilized and\/or designed to transmit data pertaining to, for example, the shipment and\/or delivery of goods to a data file, associated with or via an application program residing on a remote computing device that facilitates entry of data. A need exists, therefore, for an integrated mobile communications system that enables a user to send data pertaining to the shipment and\/or delivery of goods via a wireless transmission to, for example, a destination or file associated with or via an application program residing on a remote computing device. The present invention fulfills this need by providing such a system and method of operation thereof that facilitates entry of data and\/or assists the user of the mobile device and\/or facilitates the transmission of the data throughout the communication system.","It is a feature and advantage of the present invention to provide a mobile communications device that transmits data pertaining to the shipment and\/or delivery of goods to a data file or other destination associated with or via an application program residing on a remote computing device and\/or the mobile communications device.","It is a further feature and advantage of the present invention to enable users to transmit data pertaining to the shipment and\/or delivery of goods to a remote computing device while minimizing keystrokes and ensuring data consistency.","It is another feature and advantage of the present invention to provide a system and method in which the sequence in which data fields are transmitted by a data transmission device to the remote computing device optionally in a sequence independent manner, thereby facilitating ease of use.","It is yet another feature and advantage of the present invention to enable expedition of order conformation, shipment confirmation, receipt confirmation and\/or billing processes in the transportation industry.","It is still another feature and advantage of the present invention to enable shipping and\/or cargo capacity of a delivery vehicle to optionally be more closely matched with the quantity and\/or volume of goods to be shipped.","It is still another feature and advantage of the present invention to enable off-the-shelf equipment to be used to transmit via a wireless network data pertaining to the delivery of goods that is used by a data file optionally associated with an application program residing on a remote computing device.","It is still another feature and advantage of the present invention to enable the sender of data pertaining to the delivery of goods to optionally receive a return acknowledgment when the transmitted data is processed.","An additional feature and advantage of the present invention is to enable users to integrate data pertaining to the shipment and\/or delivery of goods, as desired.","The integrated mobile communications system of the present invention is economical, durable, and easy-to-use. The system is also flexible in that it permits changes with regard to definition of the data fields associated with transmitted data to be instituted typically by users of the system without any significant or any software modification, thereby precluding the need for routine input or assistance from an outside source. It is particularly well-suited to applications in the transportation industry that involve the delivery of goods, since the mobile communications device minimizes typing requirements in regard to the shipment and\/or delivery of such goods.","To achieve these features and advantages, a communication system is provided that transmits data pertaining to the shipment and\/or delivery of goods via a wireless transmission to a remote computing device, wherein the data is standardized and integrated into a data file or other format included or associated with an application program residing on the remote computing device. The application program can be for example, a payroll system, a billing system, and the like.","In accordance with the present invention, the system comprises a data transmission device, preferably mobile, that uses an autotext feature (e.g., macros, objects or other programming techniques) to standardize user entries and minimize user keystrokes. The data transmission device is used to transmit data to a data file or other format included or associated with an application program residing on a remote computing device, while conforming with cost and function constraints.","Specifically, an exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a handheld data transmission device that sends data via a wireless transmission to a remote computing device. The transmitted data is integrated with a data file or standardized with respect to a predetermined format associated with an application program residing on the remote device. The present invention thus provides a system and method that integrates transmitted data pertaining to delivered goods into a data file or format associated with an application program residing on a remote device such as a computer, as opposed to merely transmitting non-standardized data via, say, an e-mail message.","It is also preferred that the data transmission device contain pre-loaded, standard terms for the autotext entries (i.e., customized vocabulary), but also allow end-users to enter their own customized vocabulary on a limited optionally pre-approved basis. The autotext capability, as will be explained in further detail herein, enables users in a very simple way to enter information that a computer on the other end can reliably understand or parse on a prespecified basis. Users can enter autotext entries directly into the data transmission device itself, or advantageously download their customized vocabulary to the data transmission device.","The invention thus enables data to be entered and transmitted to a remote computing device in a consistent, cost efficient manner, with minimal programming or customization on the transmission device (e.g., eLink or other system).","In a preferred embodiment, a gateway is provided that integrates, formats or prepares the transmitted data into a data file or other format, message and the like associated with an application program residing on a remote computing device such as a general purpose computer. It should thus be understood that the invention does not merely transmit data via, say, an e-mail message. Rather, the gateway is used to integrate that data with a data file or message associated with an application program residing on the remote computing device. The remote computing device could be a standard personal computer running in, say a Microsoft Windows or an NT environment. Alternately, the remote computing device could equally be a standard minicomputer or mainframe computer.","The gateway receives the messages from, for example, a network such as the Internet, or a relay line, and transfers data contained in the messages to a data file associated with an application program residing on the remote computing device. At least a portion of the data fields of a data file associated with the application program residing on the remote device are populated with at least a portion of the transmitted data. In a preferred embodiment, the gateway parses the data, thereby facilitating population of the data fields of the application program.","It is preferred that the gateway reside on the remote computing device, and comprise a parser that receives the formatted data sent from a data transmission device that, as previously discussed, provides for data consistency. To facilitate parsing, it is preferred that the transmitted data have a delimiter or other similar marking device or system placed on either side of the data associated with each transmitted data field. The delimiter can optionally be any character the user wants.","Further, the invention provides a standardized, preset autotext vocabulary, as well as the ability for users to customize autotext entries so they can build their own vocabularies by either a manual or automated process. The process can be automated, for example, by installing software that provides this functionality. The autotext feature minimizes user keystrokes, standardizes data format, and allows users to send data associated with data fields in any order desired. Thus, for example, a user could type in bl, which the autotext feature would expand to bill of lading, and then type in wgt, which the autotext feature would then expand to weight. Alternately, the user could input wgt and then bl, each of which again would be expanded by the autotext feature. The gateway detects what sequence the fields come in, \u201cgrabs\u201d the data in a standardized manner, and moves it to the proper location (e.g., data file).","It is preferred that user-entered text data is automatically converted to all upper case letters to achieve data consistency. Alternatively, all lower case letters could equally be used, or any combination of upper and lower case letters. The invention also advantageously simplifies the entry of numeric data. In many data transmission devices, a function key or a similar key must be depressed by the user when numeric data is being entered. The present invention eliminates the need for this by utilizing the name of the fields in which the numeric data is to be entered. For example, in the case of the wgt field, the autotext feature of the present invention knows that numeric data must be entered, thus relieving the user of having to depress, for example, a function key or similar key when entering numeric data. The present invention facilitates or enables a driver to use the data transmission device by facilitating ease of data entry by, for example, minimizing typing requirements, and using abbreviations. Therefore, human to computer interaction is facilitated by the use of this autotext feature.","The features and advantages of the present invention will be realized by considering the following conditions particular to the trucking industry. In a trucking environment, if a company wants to start its billing process, one of two things must typically be done. The company can wait until a driver returns from making a delivery and manually submit his billing information to the billing department (or other designated department in accordance with company operations), after which time the billing department enters the data into the billing system. Secondly, the driver can call and verbally give the information to, say, a dispatcher, who subsequently enters it into a computer system. Both of these ways are time consuming and\/or tend to occur late in the day. In addition, we have determined that these methods have resulted in various data formats that has created much confusion, and time-consuming efforts in utilizing data entered by drivers or field personnel.","With the present invention, data can be provided in more timely fashion, and in a consistent format. A driver can thus transmit the data immediately after a delivery at, say, 1:00 PM and have the data integrated into the data fields of the application program associated with or residing on a remote computing device shortly thereafter instead of having to wait for the data to be entered when the driver returns at, say, 5:00 PM. The invention thus would provide, for example, a four hour head start in the billing process.","The present invention thus facilitates advance planning, so that the logistical aspects of matching up trucking (i.e., shipping\/cargo) capacity for a given shipment to a given destination at a given time can be better accomplished. This advantage will be realized by the data transfer system of the present invention that ensures data consistency built around communications and, enhanced or modified autotext features.","In accordance with the present invention, the wireless communication system includes a portable data transmission device. The device allows the user to enter data into a predefined data field. Each predefined data field corresponds to a user defined representation of a word or phrase. The predefined data field and the data associated with the format are defined using a standard format. Connected to the transmission device is a remote computing device which receives the predefined data field and associated data. The remote computing device process the received data using an application program stored on the remote computing device. The standard format is defined so the application program is able to receive the data. The transmission device and remote computer are connected to a network. The network transmits the data from the transmission device to the remote computing device.","The standard format comprises a bill of lading, a weight, a shipper zip, a consignee zip, a number of pieces shipped, a delivery date, a name of an individual who signed a delivery receipt, a product number, an indication that the goods are delivered, an indication that the goods are picked up, an estimated time of arrival, a comment, an indication that a trailer is being dropped off, an indication that a trailer is being picked up, a drop\/hook indication, and an indication that the goods are at least one of over, short and damaged.","The remote computing device verifies the user has entered a valid predefined data field prior to transmission. The remote computing device verifies that data received is valid and complete prior to using the transmitted data.","There has thus been outlined, rather broadly, the more important features of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood, and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are, of course, additional features of the invention that will be described hereinafter and which will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto.","In this respect, before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.","As such, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception, upon which this disclosure is based, may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other systems and methods for carrying out the several purposes of the present invention. It is important, therefore, that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention.","Further, the purpose of the foregoing abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally, and especially the scientists, engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology, to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The abstract is neither intended to define the invention of the application, which is measured by the claims, nor is it intended to be limiting as to the scope of the invention in any way.","These together with other objects of the invention, along with the various features of novelty which characterize the invention, are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed to and forming a part of this disclosure. For a better understanding of the invention, its operating advantages and the specific objects attained by its uses, reference should be had to the accompanying drawings and descriptive matter in which there is illustrated preferred embodiments of the invention.","Reference now will be made in detail to the presently preferred embodiments of the invention. Such embodiments are provided by way of explanation of the invention, which is not intended to be limited thereto. In fact, those of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate upon reading the present specification and viewing the present drawings that various modifications and variations can be made.","For example, features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used on other embodiments to yield a still further embodiment. Additionally, certain features may be interchanged with similar devices or features not mentioned yet which perform the same or similar functions. It is therefore intended that such modifications and variations are included within the totality of the present invention.","The integrated mobile communications system of the present invention is economical, durable, and easy-to-use. The system is also flexible in that it permits changes with regard to definition of the data fields associated with transmitted data to be instituted typically by users of the system without any significant or any software modification, thereby precluding the need for routine input or assistance from an outside source. It is particularly well-suited to applications in the transportation industry that involve the delivery of goods, since the mobile communications device minimizes typing requirements in regard to the shipment and\/or delivery of such goods.","To achieve these features and advantages, a communication system is provided that transmits data pertaining to the shipment and\/or delivery of goods via a wireless transmission to a remote computing device, wherein the data is standardized and integrated into a data file or other format included or associated with an application program residing on the remote computing device. The application program can be for example, a payroll system, a billing system, and the like.","In accordance with the present invention, the system comprises a data transmission device, preferably mobile, that uses an autotext feature (e.g., macros, objects or other programming techniques) to standardize user entries and minimize user keystrokes. The data transmission device is used to transmit data to a data file or other format included or associated with an application program residing on a remote computing device, while conforming with cost and function constraints.","Specifically, an exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a handheld data transmission device that sends data via a wireless transmission to a remote computing device. The transmitted data is integrated with a data file or standardized with respect to a predetermined format associated with an application program residing on the remote device. The present invention thus provides a system and method that integrates transmitted data pertaining to delivered goods into a data file or format associated with an application program residing on a remote device such as a computer, as opposed to merely transmitting non-standardized data via, say, an e-mail message.","It is also preferred that the data transmission device contain pre-loaded, standard terms for the autotext entries (i.e., customized vocabulary), but also allow end-users to enter their own customized vocabulary on a limited optionally pre-approved basis. The autotext capability, as will be explained in further detail herein, enables users in a very simple way to enter information that a computer on the other end can reliably understand or parse on a prespecified basis. Users can enter autotext entries directly into the data transmission device itself, or advantageously download their customized vocabulary to the data transmission device.","The invention thus enables data to be entered and transmitted to a remote computing device in a consistent, cost efficient manner, with minimal programming or customization on the transmission device (e.g., eLink or other system).","In a preferred embodiment, a gateway is provided that integrates, formats or prepares the transmitted data into a data file or other format, message and the like associated with an application program residing on a remote computing device such as a general purpose computer. It should thus be understood that the invention does not merely transmit data via, say, an e-mail message. Rather, the gateway is used to integrate that data with a data file or message associated with an application program residing on the remote computing device. The remote computing device could be a standard personal computer running in, say a Microsoft Windows or an NT environment. Alternately, the remote computing device could equally be a standard minicomputer or mainframe computer.","The gateway receives the messages from, for example, a network such as the Internet, or a relay line, and transfers data contained in the messages to a data file associated with an application program residing on the remote computing device. At least a portion of the data fields of a data file associated with the application program residing on the remote device are populated with at least a portion of the transmitted data. In a preferred embodiment, the gateway parses the data, thereby facilitating population of the data fields of the application program.","It is preferred that the gateway reside on the remote computing device, and comprise a parser that receives the formatted data sent from a data transmission device that, as previously discussed, provides for data consistency. To facilitate parsing, it is preferred that the transmitted data have a delimiter or other similar marking device or system placed on either side of the data associated with each transmitted data field. The delimiter can optionally be any character the user wants.","Further, the invention provides a standardized, preset autotext vocabulary, as well as the ability for users to customize autotext entries so they can build their own vocabularies by either a manual or automated process. The process can be automated, for example, by installing software that provides this functionality. The autotext feature minimizes user keystrokes, standardizes data format, and allows users to send data associated with data fields in any order desired. Thus, for example, a user could type in bl, which the autotext feature would expand to bill of lading, and then type in wgt, which the autotext feature would then expand to weight. Alternately, the user could input wgt and then bl, each of which again would be expanded by the autotext feature. The gateway detects what sequence the fields come in, \u201cgrabs\u201d the data in a standardized manner, and moves it to the proper location (e.g., data file).","It is preferred that user-entered text data is automatically converted to all upper case letters to achieve data consistency. Alternatively, all lower case letters could equally be used, or any combination of upper and lower case letters. The invention also advantageously simplifies the entry of numeric data. In many data transmission devices, a function key or a similar key must be depressed by the user when numeric data is being entered. The present invention eliminates the need for this by utilizing the name of the fields in which the numeric data is to be entered. For example, in the case of the wgt field, the autotext feature of the present invention knows that numeric data must be entered, thus relieving the user of having to depress, for example, a function key or similar key when entering numeric data. The present invention facilitates or enables a driver to use the data transmission device by facilitating ease of data entry by, for example, minimizing typing requirements, and using abbreviations. Therefore, human to computer interaction is facilitated by the use of this autotext feature.","The features and advantages of the present invention will be realized by considering the following conditions particular to the trucking industry. In a trucking environment, if a company wants to start its billing process, one of two things must typically be done. The company can wait until a driver returns from making a delivery and manually submit his billing information to the billing department (or other designated department in accordance with company operations), after which time the billing department enters the data into the billing system. Secondly, the driver can call and verbally give the information to, say, a dispatcher, who subsequently enters it into a computer system. Both of these ways are time consuming and\/or tend to occur late in the day. In addition, we have determined that these methods have resulted in various data formats that has created much confusion, and time-consuming efforts in utilizing data entered by drivers or field personnel.","With the present invention, data can be provided in more timely fashion, and in a consistent format. A driver can thus transmit the data immediately after a delivery at, say, 1:00 PM and have the data integrated into the data fields of the application program associated with or residing on a remote computing device shortly thereafter instead of having to wait for the data to be entered when the driver returns at, say, 5:00 PM. The invention thus would provide, for example, a four hour head start in the billing process.","The present invention thus facilitates advance planning, so that the logistical aspects of matching up trucking (i.e., shipping\/cargo) capacity for a given shipment to a given destination at a given time can be better accomplished. This advantage will be realized by the data transfer system of the present invention that ensures data consistency built around communications and, enhanced or modified autotext features.","Referring to , communication system  enables a data transmission device  to send, via a wireless transmission, data pertaining to delivered goods to a remote computing device , while conforming with cost and function constraints. . The data transmission device  verifies that the user has entered a valid predefined data field prior to transmission. The data received by the remote computing device  is subsequently integrated into a data file or other method of storage associated with an application program residing on the remote computing device . The remote computing device , verifies that a valid data field has been received prior to utilizing the transmitted data. In a preferred embodiment, the communication system  uses a standard autotext feature (e.g., macros, objects or other programming techniques) that minimizes user input requirements and communicates with a second network or remote computing device . It should be understood, however, that the term data as used in the present application is not limited to ASCII data, but may also include facsimile data, video data, digital data, text data, graphical data, and the like.","The present invention can be best understood by the illustrative transportation\/trucking industry example described below. However, it should be evident that the present invention can be equally well used in the context of other industries and\/or applications wherein field personnel or remote personnel that utilize wireless devices are required to enter data confirming or describing their activities.","A preferred embodiment of the communication system  according to the present invention is shown in  data transmission device  is provided that transfers data, preferably via an e-mail message, to a remote computing system  comprising a computing device  and a visual display such as a monitor . The remote computing device  can be any suitable general purpose computer, including mainframe computers, as well as minicomputers or microcomputers. The data flows from the data transmission device  through a network  to a receiver address, which is accessed by the remote computing device . At least a portion of the network  is wireless. The remote computing device  generally has running thereon application software (e.g., billing software, route planning software, inventory management software, flow management software, and the like), in addition to the application software that receives the e-mail and associated data transmitted by the data transmission device . The remote computing device  retrieves data sent by the data transmission device , and will typically store the data on, for example, a disk file (not shown) on the remote computing device . It is preferred that the data received is parsed, and utilized by a data file associated with an application program residing on the remote computing device , as will be described in further detail herein.","The data transmission device  may be, for example, a device such as the standard Research In Motion (RIM) 850 Wireless Handheld\u2122 Device, which features a keypad (similar to a PC keyboard) for composing messages, and also allows users to scroll through messages and menu options without touching a key. It is preferred that the data transmission device  has an autotext feature to minimize keystrokes and thus facilitate ease of use, as will be discussed herein.","For purposes of this working example, the following autotext entries are defined. It is preferred that the data transmission device  have stored therein a plurality of predefined autotext entries that are readily available to the user. It is also preferred that the data transmission device provide the user the capability to define his own autotext entries in a manner that does not require any third party involvement.","Below is a listing of the significant or important set of information used in the present invention in connection with the shipping embodiment of the present invention:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"21pt","align":"right"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"b1 =",":BILL OF LADING:","wgt =",":WEIGHT:"]},{"entry":[{},"shp =",":SHIPPER ZIP:","cns =",":CONSIGNEE ZIP:"]},{"entry":[{},"pcs =",":PIECES:","dt =",":DATE:"]},{"entry":[{},"sgn =",":SIGNED BY:","pro =",":PRO NUMBER:"]},{"entry":[{},"del =",":DELIVERY:","pu =",":PICKUP:"]},{"entry":[{},"eta =",":ETA:","cmt =",":COMMENT:"]},{"entry":[{},"d =",":DROP TRLR:","dh =",":DROP\/HOOK:"]},{"entry":[{},"h =",":HOOK TRLR:","osd =",":OVER, SHORT OR"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},{},"DAMAGED:"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The autotext feature is used to create a delimited vocabulary specific, for example, to the transportation industry (e.g., the trucking industry). In the above example, a colon character (\u201c:\u201d), is wrapped in front of and behind the expanded key words as is thus used as the delimiting character. As noted above, the delimiter may also be defined by the user.","Several different transmission devices are available that would allow for the communication from remote personnel to a remote computing device communicating the data relating to the pickup and delivery of goods.  is a table showing some examples of autotext tips on one such transmission device, i.e., the RIM 850 pager, incorporated herein by reference.","In a preferred embodiment, the subject line of an e-mail sent by a driver is used as a key to determine the type of e-mail being sent. For example, if the driver types pu in the subject line (automatically expanded by autotext to PICKUP), the communication system  knows, based on receipt of the subject field and indexing the subject field to predetermined processes and\/or predetermined expectations of receiving certain data in a predetermined format, to search for information relative to a pickup. Similarly, del (expanded by autotext to DELIVERY) would indicate a delivery, and osd would be OVER, SHORT OR DAMAGED. The autotext feature of the invention, therefore, allows end users to select the information transmitted as well as reduce the number of keystrokes while entering data, and significantly in a standardized format.","Once the delimited autotext entries are created, they are utilized with a suitable e-mail or transmission system (such as the Motient Corp. eLink system) while in the \u201ccompose an e-mail\u201d function so that the e-mail content (data message) is created with very few keystrokes. The autotext feature automatically expands the entries so that they have consistent spelling, and ensures that that appropriate data is typed into fields (e.g., that numeric characters are typed into numeric fields, and that text characters are typed into text fields, the number of characters, minimum\/maximum, format of the characters, etc.). In a preferred embodiment, the autotext feature also converts all lower case characters into upper case characters (or vice-versa) within alpha-numeric fields, and ensures that all required fields are present before the data is transmitted by the data transmission device .","It is also preferred that the communication system  be interoperable with a wide variety of proprietary systems. For example, in a preferred embodiment, the communication system  will advantageously recognize and execute instructions as directed by the IBM Corporation commands QRYDST, RCVDST SNDMSG, and SNDDST. It is also preferred that automatic acknowledgements for passed and\/or failed messages be sent to the data transmission device .","In a preferred embodiment, remote computing device  is unconcerned about a specific field sequence. Therefore, the actual sequence of the fields within the text of the e-mail is irrelevant. A user, therefore, could key in bl for the bill of lading, then the pro number, followed by cmt for comments. Alternatively, the user could key that same information in any other desired sequence. In a preferred embodiment, a program runs on remote computer  and identifies what sequence the fields came, utilizes the data that is critical or required, and moves that data to the proper location, such as a data file associated with an application program running on the remote computing device .","Delivery Message Example","A user sends an e-mail, having typed del in the subject line, which is automatically expanded by autotext to read DELIVERY. In the body of the message, the user types the two characters bl, which is then automatically expanded by the autotext feature to :BILL OF LADING:. The user then types in the actual bill of lading, the format of which can be optionally verified in a number of ways described above, preferably with no spaces, and then types in pro, which is automatically expanded to :PRO NUMBER:. The user then types in the pro number assigned to this shipment, which also is optionally verified.","Thus, a user's typing required to report a delivery amounts to the following keystrokes, once he is on the subject line of an e-mail:\n\n","Because the communication system  operates independent of the sequence in which data entries are made, the DELIVERY message can equally assume either of the following forms:",":BILL OF LADING: 123456 :PRO NUMBER: 1-666543-3",":PRO NUMBER: 1-666544-4 :BILL OF LADING: NB76555","In operation, when the communication system  locates, for example, the words :BILL OF LADING:, it knows that whatever follows those words, up until the next delimiter, is the actual bill of lading, intended to be processed in some further manner by at least one other application program residing on the remote computing device . With both the bill of lading and the pro number, an optional edit to confirm the driver made no typographical errors on a delivery record can be made.\n\n","When a driver makes a pickup, he sends an e-mail with pu in the subject (which expands to PICKUP).","In the body, the driver types:","bl, which is automatically expanded to :BILL OF LADING:. The driver then types in the actual bill of lading, with no spaces;","pro, which is automatically expanded to :PRO NUMBER:. He\/she then types in, for example, 1-666543-3.","wgt which is automatically expanded to :WEIGHT:. He\/she then types in the actual shipment weight;","pcs which is automatically expanded to :PIECES:. He\/she then types in the number of skids; and","cns which is automatically expanded to :CONSIGNEE ZIP:. He\/she then types in the consignee zip code.","Thus, a user's typing required to report a delivery, amounts to the following keystrokes, optionally verified, once he is on the subject line of an e-mail:","pu bl NB123456 pro 1-666543-3 wgt 2213 pcs 2 cns 45822","When this message is received by the remote computing device , it can be processed locally or, for example, auto-forwarded to, say, a dispatcher, using appropriate commands built-in to the remote computing device . The dispatcher would then be aware of a completed pickup or delivery, with no phone call from the driver.","When either the PICKUP or DELIVERY message is received at remote computing device , the messages can be read for each of the required fields, and a response can automatically be sent back to the user. The message could, for example, indicate that all information was received or, in the alternative, indicate what information was missing.","Since each user-defined field has delimiters associated therewith, the contents of the field can be advantageously readily parsed for subsequent integration with one or more application programs residing on the remote computing device . In a preferred embodiment, a data queue will receive the data from the e-mail application program residing on computing device . The data queue will subsequently transmit the data in the data queue and place it in the appropriate fields of at least one data file associated with at least one respective application program residing on the remote computing device .","Turning now to , the steps of the process of one embodiment of the invention are shown. In step , autotext entries are defined. As previously stated, the autotext entries can be predefined by the software resident on the data transmission device , or can be defined by the user. In step , the user enters at least one autotext entry and associated data into the data transmission device . In step , the user transmits the autotext entry and associated data to a receiving device such as the remote computing device . As discussed above, the receiving device has application software residing thereon, and has, for example, at least one data file or predetermined format associated with the application software. In step , the autotext entry and associated data is received by the receiving device and, in step , the data is incorporated into at least one data file or format associated with the application program running on the receiving device. In step , the user makes a decision as to whether he wishes to transmit another autotext entry and associated data. If yes, the user returns to step ; if no, the process terminates, as indicated at step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["314","316","318","320","322","324","326","322","328"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0118"},"figref":["FIGS. 8-11","FIG. 8"],"b":["500","402","404","406","410","412","414","408","8","502","504","502","504","502","504","505","414","502","504","506","518","518","402","404","406","512","408","502","512","506"]},"One optional difference between the messenger gateways  and the agent gateways  lies with the addressing scheme. The messenger gateways  (and wireless devices , ,  associated therewith) operate with their own unique Internet domain name, comprised of at least an organization's or an individual's name combined with a top level domain name. Top level domain names can include: a) .com; b) .net; c) .org; d) .edu; e) .gov; f) .mil; and g) .int. Other top level domain names can also be used as they become available (e.g., .firm, .store, .arts, etc).","In a preferred embodiment, the domain name is @2way.net, although it will be readily recognized that domain names other than @2way.net can optionally be used. The end user has the option of what the <username> portion of the <username>@2way.net address will be, and can preferably change the <username> portion at any time in the registration system  via Internet server . The messenger gateways  thus preferably perform operations on messages having a domain name associated with the system  (e.g., in the case of the Motient network , an @2way.net domain name), whereas the agent gateways  preferably perform operations on messages having any domain name. Other methods of altering the functionality are also possible. For example, the functionality can be optionally distributed among the agent  and messenger  gateways as well.","The system  provides a wide variety of messaging services. For example, the messenger gateways  offer the power of two-way e-mail messaging, as well as optional facsimile (fax) and paging capabilities. Users can thus send messages to, for example, other wireless devices , , , to PC's  or similar devices via the Internet , as well as a text message to a fax machine . In a preferred embodiment, a wireless device such as a RIM\u2122 850 model wireless handheld device will be utilized, which can also receive and\/or transmit pages via the network .","In a preferred embodiment, users who may use, for example, a POP and\/or IMAP e-mail account(s) residing on, for example, a desktop\/laptop PC  as their primary desktop e-mail are provided the convenience of utilizing a wireless device , ,  to check their PC  account messages as will be discussed in further detail. The agent gateways  in conjunction with wireless devices , ,  thus operate as an \u201cextension\u201d of, for example, a user's personal and\/or corporate e-mail address\/account. The agent gateways  preferably operate on a polled basis, checking, for example, a user's personal and\/or corporate e-mail account when a user manually makes a request or automatically on a predetermined automatic basis (e.g., every 60 minutes).\n\n","The operation of the system  can be best described and illustrated by providing several examples. The system  can, for example, be used to send a message from one wireless device , ,  to another wireless device , , . Although only two subscriber devices , , , are explicitly shown, any number consistent with network  capacity may be provided. The user inputs to his wireless device , ,  the destination address of a second wireless device , ,  to which he wishes to send a message. The message is then transmitted via a RF transmission to base station . Once received at a base station , the, message is preferably transmitted via a wireline network to a RF\/RNC , and then preferably transmitted to an ACE . At this point, depending on what the recipient's address is, the message is then routed, via a gateway server , to either a messenger gateway  or an agent gateway . It should be understood, however, that the base stations , RF\/RNCs  and ACEs  are not required, as such, to practice the invention. That is, any suitable transmission path and\/or means for transmitting that enables the RF signals emitted by the wireless devices , ,  to reach a messenger gateway  and\/or agent gateway , or equivalents thereof, is all that is required.","In the case of peer-to-peer messaging (i.e., where the originator and recipient of the message both subscribe to a same network such as the Motient network ), the message is advantageously routed to either a messenger gateway  or an agent gateway , without any substantial delay. Such a determination will generally be made by considering factors such as network traffic and loading of the respective gateways. Once received at either a messenger  or agent  gateway, the message is \u201cturned around\u201d, without being routed through the Internet , and routed back through a gateway server , an ACE , an RF\/RNC , a base station , and finally to a recipient wireless device , , .","Desktop to Wireless Device Messaging","Another type of message that can be transmitted by the system  is one that is initiated from a desktop e-mail system such as a PC , and destined for a wireless device , , . If the wireless device , ,  has an @2way.net domain name, the message is routed over the Internet  to the wireless device , ,  via a messenger gateway , gateway server , an ACE , a RF\/RNC , and a base station . Optionally, direct connectivity of, for example, a customer host  to a messenger gateway  is possible. Here, the message is routed from the user's PC  via a customer host  to a messenger gateway , a gateway server , and then out through an ACE , a RF\/RNC , and base station  for broadcasting to the wireless device , , . With either a standard transmission via a network such as the Internet  or via direct connectivity to a messenger gateway , the transmission path to a messenger gateway  is based on the fact that the message has been addressed to a predetermined address, e.g., <username>@2way.net address, which is the domain for the messenger gateways . Thus, in a preferred embodiment, an address originating from, say, a PC  and destined for a recipient having an e-mail address of the form <username>@2way.net address will be transmitted from the PC , through a messenger gateway , a gateway server , an ACE switch , a RF\/RNC , a base station , and finally to the designated wireless device , , .","As previously noted, both the agent gateways  and the messenger gateways  advantageously have direct connection to the Internet . However, other embodiments in the present invention provide that the messenger gateways  and\/or agent gateways  receive the messages from other modules or components in the system. For example, an agent gateway  may have direct connectivity to the Internet  and transfer messages to a messenger gateway , and\/or vice versa.","Retrieving Messages from Another Account","Another example of a message transmission involves the use of a wireless device , ,  to retrieve messages from, for example, a user's POP3 and\/or IMAP 4 e-mail account residing on, say, a PC . Here, the wireless device , ,  is preferably configured to poll the user's e-mail mailbox residing on, for example, a POP and\/or IMAP server  at a fixed time or time interval (e.g., 5:00 P.M. and\/or every 35 minutes). Alternatively, the wireless device can poll the user's server  when manually directed to so by the user by, for example, clicking a \u201cGet Mail\u201d icon. In either case, an agent gateway  can access the user's mailbox residing on a server  via a network such as the Internet , pull any message therein, and store them on an agent gateway . The messages can then routed via gateway server  to an ACE , a RF\/RNC , a base station , and then to the user's wireless device , ,  that has the address associate with that particular mailbox. This addressing and mapping of the user's wireless device , ,  to the user's POP and\/or IMAP e-mail account(s) is preferably done through the registration system , which contains the required profile for each user.","The agent gateways  thus merge a user's Internet  e-mail mailbox residing on a server  with the wireless device , ,  to retrieve, either automatically on a predetermined basis or manually as directed by the user, mail from the user's POP and\/or IMAP e-mail account(s). The agent gateway  thus enables a user to utilize the same e-mail address as their POP and\/or IMAP e-mail account. This also allows a user to, for example, respond to received e-mail messages from their wireless device , ,  such that the messages look like they are being sent from the user's PC . In a preferred embodiment, any messages sent from a wireless device , ,  are duplicated into a user's \u201cSent Mail\u201d folder on server  when using the IMAP.","The system  allows users to have, for example, two e-mail accounts: one that utilizes a messenger gateway  to send and receive messages substantially immediately, and one that utilizes an agent gateway  for sending and receiving messages on a polled basis. The user can provide e-mail addresses associated with the respective accounts to various people, thereby providing enhanced flexibility as to how soon messages are received. Optionally, the agent gateways  and\/or messenger gateways  allow a single user to hold two or more e-mail accounts (e.g., a work account and\/or a personal account), and route e-mail from both either or both accounts to a single wireless device , , .","Having these two e-mail addresses allows a user, for example, to not be interrupted by messages coming through an agent gateway . This feature is provided by allowing the user to optionally and advantageously select when he wants to receive his messages. For example, the user can specify that he only wants to receive messages, for example, when he logs on and downloads them, or at a particular time (e.g., 5:00 P.M.). In such a case then, if the user is in a meeting at 2:00 P.M., he would then know that the message he has received is a message sent via a messenger gateway .","In a corporate setting, an employee who has a wireless device , ,  and does not want, need, or currently have access to a corporate e-mail account can utilize the wireless device , ,  in conjunction with his home e-mail system. Alternatively, employees who are away from the office may use a wireless device , ,  to receive messages via a messenger gateway , particularly if they do not have either a home or work e-mail account from which they can retrieve their messages via an agent gateway .","Paging Service","The paging service operates in manner similar to the e-mail service. As previously noted, it is preferred that a wireless device such as a RIM\u2122 850 model be utilized, which can also receive and\/or transmit pages via the network . Thus, depending on whether the user, via the registration system , sets the page up to utilize an agent gateway  or a messenger gateway , the user can receive pages on either a real time or polled basis. Specifically, if the user chooses via the registration system  to have page messages utilize a messenger gateway , the user will receive pages via the wireless device , ,  on a real time basis. Similarly, if the user chooses via the registration system to have page messages utilize an agent gateway , the user will receive pages on a polled basis, as determined by the user.","In a preferred embodiment, a page intended for a wireless device , ,  is generated from a standard numeric paging system such that when that message goes out to either the messenger gateway  or agent gateway , the page message looks like an e-mail message that is addressed to a wireless device , ,  having an address of the form <username>@2way.net domain name. The text of the message will be the numbers that were keyed through the numeric paging system.","Facsimile Service Via Agent Gateway","Advantageously, the present invention, in accordance with one embodiment, enables a user to transmit a facsimile from a wireless device , ,  to a facsimile device . By connecting the agent  and messenger  gateways together, a facsimile message can be transmitted from a wireless device , ,  to a facsimile device  via a transmission path that includes a messenger gateway  (which does not have a faxing capability) and an agent gateway  (which does have a faxing capability). Previously, if an agent gateway  was not connected to a messenger gateway , a fax could not have been transmitted from a wireless device , ,  via an agent gateway , since messenger gateways  do not have a faxing capability. From a functional standpoint, the capability of the agent gateways , which are polling gateways that include functionality that enable facsimile transmissions, are advantageously combined with the messenger gateways  used by wireless devices , , .","In operation, a wireless device , , , originates a facsimile message for a device . When a phone number for the facsimile device  is entered in the wireless device , , , the message is transmitted to a base station, an RF\/RNC , an ACE , and subsequently to a messenger gateway . Since messenger gateways  do not have facsimile functionality, messenger gateways , which are operatively communicable with an agent gateway , transmit the facsimile message to an agent gateway . An agent gateway  then transmits the facsimile message to the facsimile device  via, for example the Internet . The facsimile transmission path can optionally include, for example, a customer host .","POP Service","Turning now to , a preferred high level embodiment of proxy server architecture , utilized in conjunction with the proxy server , is shown. The architecture  preferably works with at least POP and\/or IMAP protocols. It should also be understood that the architecture  can accommodate both present and future version of the POP and IMAP protocols, as well as newly developed protocols used in transmitting and\/or receiving e-mail and\/or other wireless and\/or electronic messages.","The scheduler  determines which, if any, of the wireless devices , ,  are active. The scheduler  also, via the registration system , determines when each particular wireless device , ,  registered with the system  is set to retrieve messages from an e-mail server . That is, the user may specify, via the registration system , that his messages be downloaded to his wireless device , ,  on either a manual basis (e.g., a user specifically perform one or more commands to retrieve messages), or automatically on a predetermined basis (e.g., every 30 minutes). In the case of retrieving messages on a predetermined basis, the user optionally sets the time(s) at which he wishes his messages to be retrieved via the registration system . The user may change these settings at any time so that messages, for example, are retrieved at different times and\/or time intervals, or retrieved manually.","In operation, the scheduler  notifies the download manager  via the device action manager  at the proper time for each wireless device , , . The scheduler  preferably accesses subscriber information to determine, for example, user specified download time(s) for each respective wireless device , , . Once the action for a particular user(s) is determined, the scheduler  notifies the device action manager .","The message lookup manager  is preferably optimized for downloading messages from a server  for worst case scenarios (e.g., 1000 messages in mailbox on server  with only one being a new message that needs to be downloaded). In a preferred embodiment, an identifier is associated with each user (e.g., a user ID), and a message identifier identifies each message (which is unique across various sessions for a given user) for each user that has been downloaded. The lookup manager  is also responsible for deleting records when corresponding messages are deleted from the user's mailbox storage on server .","In a preferred embodiment, the lookup manager  will access, for example, a message ID associated with each user message stored on an e-mail server . Each message ID associated with each user ID is unique. That is, the combination of the user ID and the message ID is preferably unique. Other unique identification systems or techniques may alternatively be used for the messages to be sent to specific individuals. Alternatively, or in combination, non-unique identifiers may be used. The lookup manager  accesses the message IDs associated with each message on an e-mail server , compares those IDs with the ID's of messages that have already been downloaded to the Proxy server , and downloads only those messages associated with message IDs that have not already been downloaded. In an alternative embodiment, when using IMAP, the lookup manager may simply access the last message ID downloaded and, in accordance with the IMAP, download from an e-mail server  those messages having a higher message ID number than the last message ID number downloaded. If desired, lower numbers can also be utilized to identify messages that have not been downloaded.","The message download manager  downloads new messages from servers  once new messages have been identified by the lookup manager . The download manager  waits for notifications from the scheduler  and the lookup manager .","The message processor  retrieves raw (i.e., messages in server  format such as POP or IMAP) messages, interprets the message format received from the server  mail format (e.g., POP, IMAP, etc.), and normalizes that message format to the Proxy server  message format, and stores the message(s) for subsequent processing. After storing the message, the gateway server  is notified to take action to transmit the message to the designated wireless device , , .","Turning now to , a more detailed embodiment of the POP service architecture  is shown. Since the architecture  in accordance with the present invention potentially serves a large number of clients at any given time, there will generally be any number of servers . The servers  are preferably either POP and\/or IMAP based servers, or other suitable hardware and\/or protocol based system.","Since there may be a large number servers  and concurrent connections thereto, volume handling and scalability are important design criteria. Such volume handling and scalability are preferably addressed by providing a scheduler  that has a scheduling algorithm. The scheduler  determines which, if any, of the wireless devices , ,  are active. Wireless devices , ,  may be inactive for the obvious reason that they are not activated (e.g., turned off), or because they, for example, are in a designated coverage zone but cannot connect to the system  because of a building or other obstruction that prevents a RF signal of the wireless device from establishing contact with a base station . For wireless devices , ,  to be active, they must be \u201cconnected\u201d to the system  in the sense that they are able to send and\/or receive messages thereto and\/or therefrom.","As previously discussed, the scheduler  also, via the registration system , determines when each particular wireless device , ,  registered with the system  is set to retrieve messages from an e-mail server . That is, the user may specify, via the registration system , that his messages be downloaded to his wireless device , ,  on either a manual basis (e.g., a user specifically perform one or more commands to retrieve messages), and\/or automatically on a predetermined or real time basis (e.g., every 30 minutes). In the case of retrieving messages on a predetermined basis, the user optionally sets the time(s) at which he wishes his messages to be retrieved via the registration system . The user may change these settings at any time so that messages, for example, are retrieved at different times and\/or time intervals, or retrieved manually.","Wireless device , ,  profiles are created and preferably maintained in a subscriber information database , which is preferably accessed by the registration system . The scheduler  is preferably based on subscriber configuration and activity contained in the subscriber information database . In addition to containing information pertaining to the user specified preferred delivery method (e.g., manual or predefined times), the subscriber information database  also preferably contains information pertaining to subscribers' POP and\/or IMAP e-mail account such as: user name\/identification, user password, user e-mail address, user display name, server name, etc. The subscriber profiles in the subscriber information database  are preferably accessible at least via the servers , the agent gateways , and the Internet .","In operation, the scheduler  notifies the download manager  via the device action manager  at the proper time for each wireless device , , . The scheduler  preferably accesses the subscriber information database  to determine the user specified download time(s) for each respective wireless device , , . Upon receiving such notification, the scheduler , preferably uses a scheduling algorithm and device activity and configuration information contained in subscriber database  to decide on the action that needs to be taken. Once the action is determined, the scheduler  notifies the device action manager .","The system , in a preferred embodiment, does not store messages permanently since virtually all POP and IMAP servers  provide storage for holding an unlimited number of messages for an unlimited period of time. The agent gateways  thus preferably store messages downloaded from a server  for a limited time period (e.g., 72 hours). When wireless devices , ,  check for new mail on a server , any new messages on a server  must be differentiated from old messages (i.e., messages already downloaded to a wireless device , , ), as the agent gateway  does not download all messages residing on a server , but only those that have not yet been downloaded. To solve this problem, the system  can to store and access some minimal \u201clookup\u201d information about all messages on the servers .","As previously discussed, the message lookup manager  is therefore preferably optimized for performance for worst case scenarios (e.g., 1000 messages in mailbox on server  with only one being a new message that needs to be downloaded). The lookup information database  stores an identifier associated with each user (e.g., a user ID) and a message identifier that identifies each message (which is unique across various sessions for a given user) for each user that has been downloaded. Database  is generally useful across various sessions of the service, but within a given session, using database  would have an adverse impact on performance. Therefore, in a preferred embodiment, a minimal, just in time, in-memory lookup information table  is provided. The lookup manager  is also responsible for deleting records from the lookup table and in-memory data structures when corresponding messages are deleted from the user's mailbox storage on server .","In a preferred embodiment, the lookup manager  will access, for example, a message ID associated with each user message stored on an e-mail server . Each message ID associated with each user is unique. That is, the combination of the user ID and the message ID is unique. The lookup manager  accesses the message IDs associated with each message on an e-mail server , compares those IDs with the ID's of messages that have already been downloaded to the proxy server , and downloads only those messages associated with message IDs that have not already been downloaded. In an alternative embodiment, when using IMAP, the lookup manager may simply access the last message ID downloaded and, in accordance with the IMAP, download from an e-mail server  those messages having a higher message ID number than the last message ID number downloaded. If desired, lower numbers can also be utilized to number messages that have not been downloaded.","The database lookup manager  thus accesses, for example, a message ID or other unique message identifier associated with each stored message on a server , and compares these messages with the message IDs of messages already downloaded to the agent gateway , as provided by the lookup info table . In a preferred embodiment, database  stores in a fixed medium (e.g., a hard drive, CD-ROM, tape drive, and the like) the data contained in the lookup info table  in the event of a system  failure. The device queue , preferably resident in memory, maintains a list of wireless devices , ,  for which action needs to be taken. For example, if ten wireless devices , ,  have requested and\/or are scheduled to check their messages on their respective servers  as determined by the scheduler , the database lookup manager  will access the device queue  to retrieve such information.","The message download manager  downloads new messages from servers  once new messages have been identified by the lookup manager . The download manager  waits for notifications from the scheduler  and the lookup manager . Once the input notifications are processed, the download manager  directs worker threads  as will be described herein.","Since the system  needs to connect to and communicate with various servers  in parallel, the preferred embodiment uses a multi-threaded approach. Hence, to create and optimally manage these threads a thread pool manager  is preferably used. Optionally, other implementations such as standard thread pool manager classes could equally be used. The thread pool manager  receives information from the device action manager , accesses the state of wireless device , ,  from the device queue , and directs the worker threads  in downloading messages from a server  associated with the wireless device , ,  under consideration in the device queue .","Regarding the worker threads , the Winsock (WINdows SOCKets) transport  is a standard application programming interface (API) between a Windows application and the TCP\/IP protocol. Most TCP\/IP stacks designed to run under Windows and most Windows software that communicates via TCP\/IP is Winsock compliant. The Winsock routines are preferably implemented as a dynamic link library, and the WINSOCK.DLL file is included with the Windows operating system. The Winsock transport  is used to communicate between the download manager  and various servers .","The download protocol identifier  identifies which download protocol is used by the server (e.g., POP, IMAP, etc.). The connection handler  connects to a specific server  associated with the wireless device , ,  currently in the device queue  and downloads any new message(s) identified by the message lookup manager , as previously described. The connection handler  also optionally identifies the type of connection to the server  (e.g., internet , dedicated line, virtual public network (VPN), etc.).","Messages downloaded from a server  are preferably stored in a raw message queue  via the output handler . The raw message queue is provided in a preferred embodiment since there will generally be differences between the processing speed of the download manager  and the message processor .","The message processor  retrieves messages (e.g., messages in server  format such as POP or IMAP) from the message queue , parses the messages, and creates a message object using the message interpreter . Once a message is retrieved from a given server , the message needs to be interpreted from the server  mail format (e.g., POP, IMAP, etc.), normalized to the Proxy server  message format, and stored in a database  for subsequent processing. The process of retrieving, normalizing, and storing a message will generally take longer than simply downloading the message. Therefore, the database  also serves as a raw message queue. The device action manager  maintains the state information of the message lookup manager  and user information associated with each wireless device , ,  contained in the device queue .","Once the message is interpreted, it is normalized to the Proxy server  message format by the eLink message normalizer , and stored in a database . After storing the message, the agent gateway  can transmit the message to the designated wireless device , , , and the raw message queue manager  is notified to remove message from its queue, each by the persistence and notification handler .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0160"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 11","FIGS. 9A and 9B"],"b":["700","504","504","600","700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0159","num":"0161"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["700","402","404","406","512","800","402","404","406","614","614"]},"In step , one or more e-mail servers  receive one or more messages. The messages can be associated with one or more user's, where each user can have one or more e-mail accounts. As previously discussed, the messages stored on server  are preferably of a POP and\/or IMAP format. In step , when a wireless device , ,  is programmed or manually directed to retrieve messages stored on server , the agent gateway  is contacted via a base station , a RF\/RNC , an ACE , and a gateway server as shown in FIG. . Alternatively, server  may transmit\/broadcast messages directly or without the wireless device specifically requesting.","In step , the scheduler  stores the identification of each wireless device , ,  that has requested a download in the device action manager . In step , the device action manager notifies the message download manager when each wireless device , ,  has requested action.","In step , the thread pool manager  within the message download manager  is activated. As previously discussed, the thread pool manager  receives information from the device action manager , accesses the state of wireless device , ,  from the device queue , and directs the worker threads  in downloading messages from a server  associated with the wireless device , ,  under consideration in the device queue .","In step , the download manager , as previously discussed, utilizes the message lookup manager  to differentiate between any messages on a server  that have not been downloaded to an agent gateway . In step , the message download manager  downloads any new messages from a POP and\/or IMAP server . While the message download manager  retrieves the computer messages from a server , the agent gateway  may continue to receive additional requests from other wireless devices , ,  via the scheduler . In a preferred embodiment, user messages stored on server  are preferably identified, for example, by a message ID and\/or a destination address of the computer messages, such as the user's e-mail addresses. As previously discussed, the user's account information may also include such information as a password associated with the user's account. The account information will also include when the wireless device wishes to receive messages (e.g., 9:00 AM and 5:00 PM).","Next, in step  the message processor  interprets (e.g., converts, formats, etc.) via the message interpreter  the message received from a POP\/IMAP server to the agent gateway  message format. In step , an agent gateway  is notified to take action on this message by the persistence and notification handler . Finally, in step , the message in the raw message queue  is deleted by the persistence and notification handler .","An alternative network configuration is illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 6,219,694 incorporated herein by reference.","The many features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the detailed specification, and thus, it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention. Further, since numerous modifications and variations will readily occur to those skilled in the art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described, and accordingly, all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to, falling within the scope of the invention. While the foregoing invention has been described in detail by way of illustration and example of preferred embodiments, numerous modifications, substitutions, and alterations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The Detailed Description including the description of a preferred structure as embodying features of the invention will be best understood when read in reference to the accompanying figures wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A and 11B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
