---
title: Systems and methods for displaying text recommendations during collaborative note taking
abstract: Multiple users access a collaborative data-sharing system during a data-sharing event. Each user can establish the level of sharing to be allowed with each other user and filtering criteria for filtering the data before it is provided to the other users. Data can be extracted from a number of different sources, including data input by other users and/or previously created information sources. For example, slides from a presentation on a similar topic may be identified and included by a user as a potential source of information to be used by other users. Shared data can be displayed on devices used by users to communicate with the collaborative data-sharing system. A user can selected data provided by the collaborative data-sharing system, which was obtained from the data input by other users and/or from the identified additional data sources and added to that user's data as data entered by that user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07680820&OS=07680820&RS=07680820
owner: Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
number: 07680820
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20020419
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of Invention","This invention is directed to systems and methods for real-time filtering and sharing of information.","2. Description of Related Art","As low-cost, digital note-taking devices become more pervasive and ubiquitous, system and methods for taking and sharing notes have been developed. Shared note taking enables groups to better communicate ideas and information. Various collaborative note-taking systems have been devised that capture, store and share notes and ideas generated by participants using appropriate communication devices and network. Such systems provide group access to personal notes, presentation slides, and any other documents or sources of information relative to a particular meeting or session. This sharing and exchanging of ideas and information enhance the efficiency and the capability of individuals and groups.","Current note-taking systems, such as NotePals, provide lightweight meeting support systems that automatically combine individual meeting notes into a shared record. In the NotePals system, group members record notes on portable pen-based devices, such as Personal Digital Assistants. NotePals combines the individual notes into a shared document. However, NotePals only provides access to the notes and information after the conclusion of the event during which the notes were generated.","Another important element of collaborative note taking involves text entry, prediction, and recommendation. Several techniques exist to allow fast text entry of words and notes using a stylus. Some techniques provide text completion capabilities that automatically present a list of one or more words or phrases that complete an entry begun by a user for, for example, insertion into notes. These words or phrases are often extracted from a dictionary, such as the Ipaq soft keyboard completion. Another system, the Reactive Keyboard, predicts words by analyzing words previously used by a user and presents note insertion options. Other systems, such as POBox, present words predicted using different sources, including a dictionary, the frequency of use, and their correlation (e.g., \u201cinterface\u201d comes after \u201cuser in \u201cuser interface\u201d).","Another aspect of collaborative note taking systems is the use of filtering systems that allow information to be coordinated and shared. A collaborative filtering system can leverage the information of all group members by reading and\/or browsing the words, preferences, and interactions of each group member and\/or other sources of information. Collaborative filtering algorithms are used by several systems, like Tapestry, GroupLens, PHOAKs, and Fab, to recommend documents and news messages based, for example, on users' preferences.","However, these systems often do not rank words, notes, and\/or documents based on frequency of use or based on users' personal profiles, where other note takers are ranked higher if their words are used by a particular user.","This invention provides systems and methods for collecting, filtering and disseminating information in real-time for collaborative note taking systems.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for filtering of words from multiple sources for collaborative note taking systems in real-time.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for distinguishing and displaying text to be shared from other users and sources.","This invention separately provides identification and fast-text entry of active words and phrases into a note created using a note-taking device.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, multiple users may access the real-time collaborative note taking system. In various exemplary embodiments, each user can establish a personal profile that establishes the level of note sharing to be allowed. For example, users can establish how much of their notes will be shared with the other users and\/or with whom the notes will be shared. In other various exemplary embodiments, the personal profiles provide filtering criteria for the display of shared notes among users.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, words can be extracted from a number of different sources, including notes created by other users and\/or previously created information sources. For example, slides from a presentation on a similar topic may be identified and included by a user as a potential source of information to be used by other note takers, if desired.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, shared words and\/or text can be displayed on devices used by users to communicate with the collaborative note taking system. Shared notes can be displayed using differing text variations and\/or graphics to assign value or meaning to the shared note. Text and phrases generated during a collaborative note taking session can be distinguished visually to identify word categories and sources. For example, notes from the presenter of the briefing may be highlighted in bold while notes from a colleague are displayed in italics. Further, shared notes may also have a symbol or other graphical symbol next to it that identifies it as being associated with a particular user.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, a user of the real-time collaborative note taking systems can insert information from other users and sources through simple insertion techniques. For example, a word or phrase may be selected using a single-tap of a stylus.","These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or are apparent from, the following detailed description of various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention.","The systems and methods of this invention enable the state of a collaborative note taking session to be advanced by using real-time filtering and dissemination of notes and information. The mechanisms and techniques of the real time collaborative note taking may be implemented using any combination of known or later-developed hardware devices and\/or software programs designed to provide a level of compatible communication and exchange of data\/information in accordance with the disclosed invention. The text sharing systems and methods according to this invention can also be used in any other known or later-developed multi-user interaction, such as during instant messaging sessions, especially when one or more of the users uses a cell phone or personal digital assistant (PDA) as that user's user device.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of this invention, a user operating within a collaborative note taking system, or any other multi-user interaction system, can effectively exchange information with other users connected to the same collaborative note taking system or other multi-user interaction system. The users are each connected to a distributed network that is used by each user to communicate with the other participating users. In various exemplary embodiments, communication devices may be used to compile and exchange information. The type of communication devices used may be predicated on the type of distributed network being used.","In various exemplary embodiments, varying levels of filtering may be used by each user using the collaborative note taking system or other multi-user interaction system. The level and type of filtering used may vary among users and may be predicated on the type of network and\/or software being used. In various exemplary embodiments, users may include personal filtering preferences that may include the level of note or text sharing, the other users with whom to share notes or text, and other outside sources of information to be included during a note taking session or other multi-user interaction session.","In various exemplary embodiments, words and\/or text being shared during a note-taking session or other multi-user interaction session may be displayed and distinguished visually using various text variations and\/or graphics to identify the source and\/or category of words and\/or text. Sources of words and\/or text may include other participants in the multi-user interaction session, relevant documentation, a presenter and the like. Categories of words and\/or text may include active words and\/or text currently being used by other participants in the multi-user interaction session, words and\/or text from earlier presentations, and the like. The types of text variations and\/or graphics used may be predicated on the type of software and\/or hardware being used. Further, it should be appreciated that the value and\/or meaning associated with the shared words or text displayed on users' devices may vary among users depending on the individual preferences of each user.","It should be appreciated that the types of communication devices, distributed networks, and collaborative note taking or other multi-user interaction systems used to transmit, receive and display shared information may vary or differ depending on the types of systems and\/or devices being used. The systems and methods of this invention do not depend on any specific collaborative note taking or other multi-user interaction system and\/or any specific distributed network. Accordingly, the systems and methods are usable with any appropriate collaborative note taking or other multi-user interaction system and\/or any distributed network.","For ease of understanding, the following detailed description of the exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of this invention are directed primarily to a specific type of multi-user interaction system, that is, a collaborative note taking system. However, it should be appreciated that the systems and methods of this invention are not limited to collaborative note-taking sytems. Thus, in the following detailed description, it should be understood that description of the systems and methods according to this invention directed to the collaborative note-taking system is equally applicable to any appropriate known or later-developed multi-user interaction system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","100","100","200","300","400","200"]},"However, it should be appreciated that the collaborative note taking system  and the collaborative note management system  can be used to share more than just text notes. That is, a collaborative sharing session can involve more than sharing text notes. For example, in various exemplary embodiments, image data, numerical data, graphical data, gestural data, sounds, speech and other audio data, multimedia data and any other known or later developed types of data could be shared between users during a collaborative data exchange session. Thus, it should be appreciated that the collaborative note taking system  and the collaborative note management system  are more generally a collaborative data sharing system  and a collaborative data management system ","It should be appreciated that the user devices , the distributed network  and the collaborative note (or data) management system , as shown in , while depicted separately, are not necessarily separate and distinct components. Thus, the functions and\/or operations of each of these elements may be carried out by one or more devices, structures, and\/or systems. Further, it should be appreciated that the user devices  in  may be any devices that use a distributed network to achieve connectivity with another device.","As shown in , the user devices  can be any devices that are connectable to a data communication network. Each user device  may be implemented using a programmed general computer, a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor, a digital signal processor (DSP), and ASIC or other integrated circuit device or programmable logic device such as a PLD, PLA, FPGA or PAL, or the like. In general, any hardware and\/or software system capable of implementing and processing data and information from a data network may be used to implement each of the user devices .","In various exemplary embodiments, the network  can be implemented using any one or more of public switched telephone networks, local area networks, wide area networks, storage area networks, intranets, extranets, the Internet, or any other type of distributing network, each of which can include wired and\/or wireless portions.","In various exemplary embodiments, the collaborative note (or data) management system  includes, but is not limited to, any known or later developed software system that defines, executes, filters, and\/or controls collaborative note taking processes. The software may contain the logic of collaborative note taking, interpret the information provided, and invoke the necessary resources and\/or applications required at various steps of the process. This may be accomplished by storing and interpreting information and creating and managing instances of the needed processes. Further, the collaborative note (or data) management system  may control the interactions between users and the interaction of users with each other and the applications. Also, the collaborative note (or data) management system  may provide administrative and\/or supervisory note taking functions that allow information to be reassigned and\/or added and\/or removed and\/or audited for the system or during one of the note taking sessions. It should be appreciated that the type of collaborative note (or data) management system  that is implemented can depend upon the requirements of the collaborative session being managed and the level of requirements to be controlled.","In various exemplary embodiments, a user of the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system  uses the user device  to take notes and to input information relative to the collaborative session. In various exemplary embodiments, at the start of the collaborative session, the user uses the user device  to log into a particular collaborative note taking session. The user device  accesses the collaborative note (or data) management system  via the network  using a compatible communication process. For example, if the collaborative note (or data) management system  is located on an Internet Web server, the user can access the collaborative note (or data) management system  via the Internet using an HTTP connection.","In various exemplary embodiments, during the log-in process, the user can set up different options, such as establishing the level of information sharing, the type of meeting to participate in, the user's location, any related material, and the like. In various exemplary embodiments, information about meeting type and\/or meeting location may be used by the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system  and\/or the collaborative note (or data) management system  to extract relevant words and\/or terms or phrases from one or more documents that are relevant to that meeting type and\/or location. For example, if the collaborative session is a staff meeting, a set of terms, phrases, and\/or words corresponding to staff meetings may be used during the session. Further, depending upon the meeting type and\/or location, different personal profiles can be automatically retrieved by the collaborative note (or data) management system  for particular ones of the users that are logged into the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system . For example, a user can have different sets of preferred words, terms, and\/or phrases to be used for a particular type of meeting and\/or location.","Related material relevant to the particular collaborative session to which a user has logged into can also be selected by that user as relative material to be used during the collaborative session. For example, a PowerPoint slide presentation, a Word document, and the like can be used as a source document from which one or more words, terms, and\/or phrases can be extracted and added to that user's set of words, terms, and\/or phrases. It should be appreciated that this setup procedure invoked by a user logging into a collaborative note taking session may vary depending upon the particular collaborative session and the intent of that collaborative session.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200","210","220","230","240","250","260","252","254","250"]},"As shown in , in various exemplary embodiments, the memory  can include, but is not limited to, a real-time portion , a note portion , a content portion , and filter\/sharing parameters portion . It should be appreciated that these are functional and not physical portions of the memory . In various exemplary embodiments, the real-time portion  can store text annotated by the user during a note-taking session using any entry technique compatible with the user device . This includes, but not limited to, keyboards, stylus, and voice-to-text capabilities.","In various exemplary embodiments, the note portion  can store text input by the user using the user device  and\/or text displayed on the user device  that has been received, via the collaborative note (or data) management system , from other users, including the real-time notes and\/or other informational sources, such as past presentations, publications, and the like. In various exemplary embodiments, the content portion  can store related material to be used for the collaborative session. In various exemplary embodiments, the filter\/sharing parameters portion  can store the user's options established for filtering the user's notes with the collaborative note-taking session. These filter and\/or sharing parameters may include the level of note sharing, with whom the notes will be shared, and the like, and may be established and stored during initial set-up.","The memory  can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable, volatile or non-volatile memory or non-alterable, or fixed, memory. The alterable memory, whether volatile or non-volatile, can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic gram, a floppy disk or disk drive, a writable or rewritable optical disk and disk drive, a hard drive, flash memory or the like. Likewise, the non-alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, and optical disk, ROM disk, such as CD ROM or DVD ROM, and disk drive or the like.","The set-up circuit, routine or application  can be implemented using any combination of hardware circuitry and\/or software routines, objects and\/or programs that enable the user to configure the user device  to participate in a collaborative note-taking session. In various embodiments, this can include establishing the proper communication link via the network  to the collaborative note (or data) management system . Further the set-up circuit, routine or application  can establish the filtering parameters stored in filter\/sharing parameters portion  of the memory .","In operation, the user device  is used to input the setup information for a particular collaborative note-taking session by interacting with the setup circuit, routine or application , to input notes as desired by the user of the user device  and to provide those notes, or filtered versions of those notes, to the collaborative note (or data) management system . The user device  is further used to receive raw or filtered notes from the collaborative note (or data) management system , to display text (or data) portions at least corresponding to the received raw or filtered notes, to select one or more of the displayed text (or data) portions, and to display the selected one or more displayed text(or data) portions as text (or data) portions input by the user of that user device . In various exemplary embodiments, the text (or data) portions are selected by, for example, using a single mouse click when using a mouse as an input device, or by, for example, using a single tap when using a touch pad and stylus as in input device, such as with a PalmPilot\u00ae or other PDA.","As described in further detail below, if raw notes (or data) are received from the collaborative note (or data) management system , a filter circuit, routine or application , as shown in , will filter the various notes received from the various users based on the filtering parameters of the user who created that note. Likewise, in various exemplary embodiments, where filtering of the notes being forwarded from this user to the collaborative note (or data) management system  takes place locally, the filtering parameters entered by this user are used by the filter circuit, routine or application  to filter the notes before the filtered notes are forwarded to the collaborative note (or data) management system .","In operation, the various graphical user interface screens, as outlined below with respect to  are controllably displayed to the user by the controller  to variously allow the user to interact with the setup circuit routine or application , to input notes, and to retrieve at least filtered words or portions of notes entered by other users for use as this user's own notes.","It should be appreciated that the user device  can be implemented as a portion of a programmed general-purpose computer. Alternatively, the user device  can be implemented using an ASIC, a FPGA, a PLD, a PLA, or a PAL, or using physically distinct hardware circuits, such as discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements. The particular form the user device  will take is a design choice and will be obvious to those skilled in the art. Alternatively, the user device  can be implemented as a portion of a software program usable to form the overall control system of a computing device. In this case, each of the controller  and the set-up routine  can be implemented as software routines, objects and\/or application programming interfaces or the like. In general, the user device  can be implemented using a personal computer, a laptop or other portable computer, a personal digital assistant, a hand-held computer, a cell phone, a text-capable pager, or the like.","In general, the one or more input devices  can include any one or more of a keyboard, a keypad, a mouse, a track ball, a track pad, a touch screen with or without an associated stylus, a microphone and associated voice recognition system software, a joy stick, a pen-base system, or any other known or later-developed system for providing control and\/or data signals to the user device . The input device  can further include any manual or automated device usable by a user or other system to present data or other stimuli to the user device . For example, the input device  can be any known or later developed technology suitable for note taking, such as a remote laptop computer, pen-based notebook computer, or personal digital assistant.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["400","400","410","420","430","450","460"]},"The memory  can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable, volatile or non-volatile memory or non-alterable, or fixed, memory. The alterable memory, whether volatile or non-volatile, can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic gram, a floppy disk or disk drive, a writable or rewritable optical disk and disk drive, a hard drive, flash memory or the like. Likewise, the non-alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, and optical disk, ROM disk, such as CD ROM or DVD ROM, and disk drive or the like.","It should be appreciated that the collaborative note (or data) management system  can be implemented using any device that is connectable to a data communication network. The collaborative note (or data) management system  may be implemented using a programmed general purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an ASIC or other integrated circuit device or programmable logic device such as a PLD, PLA, FPGA or PAL, or the like. In general, any hardware and\/or software system capable of implementing and processing data and information from a data network may be used to implement the collaborative note (or data) management system .","It should be understood that the filter circuit, routine or application  can be implemented as portions of a suitably programmed general-purpose computer. Alternatively, the filter circuit, routine or application  can be implemented as physically distinct hardware circuits within an ASIC, using a digital signal processor (DSP) or using a FPGA, a PLD, a PLA and\/or a PAL, or using discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements. The particular form the filter circuit, routine or application  will take is a design choice and will be obvious and predicable to those skilled in the art.","In operation, the filter circuit, routine or application  can identify and remove unnecessary information in a note received from a user device  over the network  that is not relevant to the collaborative meeting session. The filter circuit, routine or application  enables, through using one or more filtering techniques and\/or algorithms, information to be shared among the users of the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system . Further, the filter circuit, routine or application  identifies what words and\/or phrases are attracting attention from the users.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods, the filter circuit, routine or application  may receive the information and notes entered on the user devices  of the various users in real-time and determine \u201clive\u201d words, i.e., those words that are currently being used, to be shared with the participating users. The filter circuit, routine or application  can identify and rank words based upon their frequency of use by the users of the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system  using, for example, probabilistic statistical models. As a result, the filter circuit, routine or application  can provide recommended relevant text, documents, and other sources of information to a particular user or users of the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system . This information is transmitted via the network  to the user devices  and displayed on the user devices  for insertion into the user's own annotated notes.","It should be appreciated that techniques for ranking and selecting words, such as, frequency of use, users preferences, personalized recommendations, and the like, can be used. Further, techniques for generating the list of recommended text, documentation and other sources of information can include, but are not limited, to information retrieval algorithms. It should be further appreciated that the technique for filtering can vary and the design choice will be apparent to those skilled in the art.","Although depicted in  as an element of the collaborative note (or data) management system , it should be appreciated that the filter circuit, routine or application  can alternatively be integrated into the user device , as illustrated in .  depicts a second exemplary embodiment of the user device  for the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system  where the filter circuit, routine or application  is incorporated into the user device  instead of, or in addition to, the filter circuit, routine or application  of the collaborative note (or data) management system . The filter circuit, routine or application  performs the same function as discussed above with respect to the collaborative note (or data) management system .","In operation, the user inputs text into the user device  during a collaborative note-taking session using any of one or more input methods compatible with the user device . The text is initially filtered using the set-up parameters, established by the user for sharing information with the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system  and stored in the files\/sharing parameters portion , including how much of the text to send, with whom to share the text, other relevant documentation to share, and the like. The text is then transmitted, via the network interface  and across the network , to the collaborative note (or data) management system , where text and information from other users is collected. The text and information collected is then filtered using the filter circuit, routine or application  to determine a set of \u201clive\u201d words that represent the prevailing words and\/or phrases currently being used by the users in their notes and key words from other information sources provided by the users. The text and information of various users that may have been ranked and that represent the \u201clive\u201d words and key words are transmitted via the network interface  back to the user devices . It should be appreciated that certain user's words may not be shared with the entire note-taking group based upon the pre-set options of the users that limit the level of sharing and with whom.","\u201cLive\u201d words and other key source words are received by the user devices  and displayed on the display device . The users may opt to select one or more of the displayed words using any selection technique that is compatible with the user device  such as, for example, a single-tap on a PDA, such as a \u201cPalm Pilot\u201d. The selected words are then inserted into the user's notes.","As indicated above, in various exemplary embodiments, the filter circuit, routine or application  can be used to locally filter notes entered by the user of this user device  before the filtered notes are forwarded to the collaborative note (or data) management system . In this case, the filter circuit, routine or application  applies the filter and\/or sharing parameters stored in the filter\/sharing parameters portion  to filter this user's notes before the filtered results are forwarded to the collaborative note (or data) management system  for distribution to the other users during this collaborative note-taking session. In various other exemplary embodiments, the filter circuit, routine or application  is used to locally filter raw notes received from the other users via the collaborative note (or data) management system . In this case, the filter circuit, routine or application  applies the particular filtering and\/or sharing parameters of the particular user associated with each particular note before that filtered note is made accessible to the user of this user device . Of course, in various exemplary embodiments, the filter circuit, routine or application  can provide both of these features.","Alternatively, in various other exemplary embodiments, the collaborative note (or data) management system  can provide one or both of these features. That is, in various exemplary embodiments, for each note received from a particular user, a filter circuit, routine or application  within the collaborative note (or data) management system  applies the filter and\/or sharing parameters associated with that user to filter that note before that filtered note is made available to the other users. In this case, each user's filter and\/or sharing parameters are forwarded from that user's user device  to the collaborative note (or data) management system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","254","200","100","500","510","520"]},"The text box  can be used by the user to enter notes using, for example, a soft keyboard, a stylus or other devices and\/or techniques for entering text. The word list  below the text box  represent words that have been entered, input or selected by one or more of the other users or extracted from other source material provided by any of the one or more of the users participating in the collaborative note-taking session. These words may be distinguished visually for different word categories. In , the different categories of words in the word list  are separated by brackets. Furthermore, font style and\/or color can be used to further categorize the words into distinct classes or categories. For example, \u201clive\u201d words that are currently being used by one or more of the users may be displayed with a bold font. These \u201clive\u201d words can be continually updated as users add notes or the like to the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system . For example, words used by other users can be displayed in a bold and italic font, while words that have been used by the user of the user device  can be displayed in a bold font. The other words and phrases can be from other sources, such as for example, a trip report.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["500","500","510","520","500","530"]},"According to various embodiments, the ticker tape window  can be used to display various categories of words. In , the shared \u201clive\u201d and other words extracted in real-time, as well as words and\/or phrases used by other users can be displayed using the ticker-tape window .","In both , selecting a word from the word list , for example, with a stylus, will append it and\/or the original context of the word to the current notes in the text box . It should be appreciated that the level of information in the original context of the word can be filtered by the set-up options of the user from whom the word came. In various embodiments, words in the word list  can be displayed with icons next to each word identifying the originator of the word.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["600","254","100","600","610","620","630","640","650","660","670"]},"Logging into the note-taking session using the log-in screen  allows users to set-up different options. It should be appreciated that the software that initiates this process can be integrated with the user device  or the collaborative note (or data) management system , depending on the preference of the users and\/or capability of the collaborative note taking (or data sharing) system  and\/or user device .","When operating the log-in process, a user inputs a user name into the user name input box  and\/or a password into the password input box . The user also selects a sharing level from one of the possible sharing levels provided for the sharing level list box . The selected sharing level defines how much of the notes generated by the user will be sharable with the other users. For example, the user can share every word input, the individual words used and entered but not the original notes as entered, or the like. Information indicating the type of meeting to be logged into, for example, a staff meeting, is input by the user by selecting an entry from the meeting type selection list box . The user inputs a meeting location using the meeting location input box . It should be appreciated that information like the type of meeting and location can be automatically entered if other users have already entered this information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["200","210","220","230","240","200","210","220","100","230","240","250"]},"In step S, a determination is made whether to establish a level of sharing with the other users. For example, the user may wish to share all or none of annotated notes with the rest of the collaborative users. If a sharing level is to be established, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S. In step S, the user establishes the sharing level. Then in step S, a determination is made whether to limit access by specific users to a specified level of notes. If specific users are to be selected, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S. In step S, other collaborative users are identified to receive the user's specified level of notes. Operation then continues to step S. In step S, a determination is made to include additional material for use during the collaborative session. If additional material is to be included, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S. In step S, additional material is selected. Operation then continues to step S, where the operation of the method ends.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["400","410","420","430","440","440"]},"In step S, the users' set-up options and profiles that the users established when logging into the collaborative session are accessed. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether to extract other related material for each user based on that user's options or profiles. If related material is to be extracted and included with the word set list, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S.","In step S, the related material is extracted based on the user's setup options and profiles. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether to limit the sharing of the active \u201clive\u201d word set and the extracted related material with and among the other users, based on each user's set-up profile and options accessed in step S. If a limitation on sharing is identified, operation goes to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S.","In step S, the word set is edited based on the limitations and restrictions in the corresponding user's set-up options and profile. Next, in step S, the word sets, whether edited or not, as well as any extracted material, are transmitted to the participating users based on the sharing restrictions. Operation then continues to step S, where the operation of the method ends.","While this invention has been described in conjunction with various exemplary embodiments, it is to be understood that many alternatives, modifications and variations would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, Applicants' intent to appraise all such alternatives, modifications, and variations that follow in the spirit and scope of this invention, in particular, while the exemplary embodiments described above involved a system and method for advancing the state of a workflow process, it is to be understood that the system and methods of this invention may be used with any collaborative workflow system."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments of the invention will be described in detail with reference to the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
