---
title: Design environment to facilitate accessible software
abstract: The present invention generally is directed to a method of associating a label with a component in a graphical user interface panel. The method comprises: displaying an image of the panel containing an image of the component and an image of the label; receiving a set of user inputs selecting the image of the component, the image of the label, and a predefined user action configured to associate the label with the component; and associating the label with the component in response to the set of user inputs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07093199&OS=07093199&RS=07093199
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07093199
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020507
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","The present invention generally relates to a graphical user interface, and more specifically, to a tool for building a graphical user interface.","2. Description of the Related Art","Early computer systems used command-based operating systems and software applications. These command-based systems provided a user interface that required the user to memorize a relatively large number of commands in order to perform meaningful work. The user interfaces for these command-driven computer programs required a relatively high level of skill to operate, and were not considered to be \u201cuser-friendly.\u201d With the introduction of the IBM personal computer (PC), computers became more widely available, both in the workplace and in homes, and the computer industry soon recognized the need to provide more user-friendly interfaces to computer programs. As a result, many different operating systems were introduced that provided a graphical user interface (GUI), including IBM's OS\/2, Microsoft Windows, and the Apple Macintosh. Software applications with graphical user interfaces soon followed, and the vast majority of computer programs running on personal computers today provide a user-friendly graphical user interface.","Most graphical user interfaces provide many common features. The basic display area in a graphical user interface is known as a window or panel. For the discussion in this patent application, a basic display area is referred to as a panel, recognizing that other terms are known in the art to describe display areas. A single panel may fill the entire display, or the display can be split into a number of different panels. A panel may include a number of different \u201ccomponents\u201d, which are different areas that display text, drop-down lists, text entry fields, buttons, etc. A pointing device such as a trackball or a mouse is generally used to select various commands and options on a panel by clicking on the appropriate fields or buttons within the panel. In addition, a keyboard is commonly used to enter text information into a panel.","Despite the accessibility of GUI content and components to most users, without special enhancements, GUI's, and IT generally, remain largely inaccessible to visually impaired users. Recently, section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998 requires all United States federal agencies to make their information technology accessible to their employees and customers with disabilities. That is, all new IT equipment and services purchased by federal agencies must be accessible. This rule applies to all electronic equipment used in federal agencies (not just workstations). The law also gives federal employees and members of the public the right to sue if the government agency does not provide comparable access to the information and data available to people without disabilities. All state agencies that receive federal funds under the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 are also required to comply with section 508 requirements.","Since the federal government is a major client for many computer companies, significant effort has been spent in developing accessibility aids to facilitate computer operation by disabled users. One example of an accessibility aid that enables disabled user, i.e., a visually impaired user, to use a computer is a \u201cscreen reader utility,\u201d which reads information displayed on a video display to the visually impaired user. These screen reader utilities operate by intercepting and analyzing information sent to the video driver. That is, when an application program wants to display information on the video display, it sends the information to a video driver, which is responsible for displaying the information on the video display. For example, when an application program wants to display a character, such as an ASCII character, the program sends an ASCII character code to the video driver indicating which character of the ASCII character set to display on the video display. The screen reader intercepts this ASCII character code, determines the phonetic sounds associated with the ASCII character, and audibly outputs the phonetic sounds to the visually impaired user, so that the visually impaired user can perceive the character written to the video display. An example of a screen reader is the Home Page Reader\u00ae (HPR) by International Business Machines, Inc. of Armonk, N.Y. HPR uses text-to-speech processing and is configured to read the content of a web page to the visually impaired user through a set of speakers.","As a result, many visually impaired users use screen readers to read graphical user interface panel components, such as, text entry fields. A graphical user interface panel that is accessible for visually impaired users typically includes a label associated with the panel and the components contained therein. The label is configured to textually describe the panel or component associated to it. Thus, at run time, when a visually impaired user places a cursor on a component, the screen reader will read out loud the label associated with that panel or component. In this manner, the visually impaired user is able to perceive the component.","The association between the panel or component and the label is typically made using an Application Programming Interface (\u201cAPI\u201d). For instance, in Java, a developer has to manually call an API to associate the label with the component. Manually programming these API calls, however, can be tedious.","Moreover, often times, the developer fails to associate a label with a panel or component. When a visually impaired user places a cursor on that panel or component, the screen reader will not be able to read anything. Consequently, the visually impaired is left unaware of the panel or component, and thus is unable to perceive the panel or component.","Accordingly, a need exists therefore for an improved method and apparatus for associating a panel and the components contained therein with their respective labels.","The present invention generally is directed to a method of associating a label with a component in a graphical user interface panel. The method comprises: displaying an image of the panel containing an image of the component and an image of the label; receiving a set of user inputs selecting the image of the component, the image of the label, and a predefined user action configured to associate the label with the component; and associating the label with the component in response to the set of user inputs.","In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method of associating a new label to a component in a graphical user interface panel. The method comprises: displaying an image of the panel containing an image of the component; receiving a set of user inputs selecting the image of the component and a predefined user action configured to generate and associate the new label to the component; displaying a request for a description of the new label in response to the predefined user action; receiving the description for the new label; and associating the new label to the component.","In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a computer readable medium containing a program which, when executed, performs an operation. The operation comprises: displaying an image of the panel containing an image of the component and an image of the label; receiving a set of user inputs selecting the image of the component, the image of the label and a predefined user action configured to associate the label with the component; and associating the label with the component in response to the set of user inputs.","In yet another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a computer readable medium containing a program which, when executed, performs an operation. The operation comprises: displaying an image of the panel containing an image of the component; receiving a set of user inputs selecting the image of the component and a predefined user action configured to generate and associate the new label to the component; displaying a request for a description of the new label in response to the predefined user action; receiving the description for the new label; and associating the new label to the component.","In still another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a computer that comprises a memory containing a program; and a processor which, when executing the program, performs an operation. The operation comprises: displaying an image of the panel containing an image of the component and an image of the label; receiving a set of user inputs selecting the image of the component, the image of the label and a predefined user action configured to associate the label with the component; and associating the label with the component in response to the set of user inputs.","In still yet another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a computer that comprises a memory containing a program; and a processor which, when executing the program, performs an operation. The operation comprises: displaying an image of the panel containing an image of the component; receiving a set of user inputs selecting the image of the component and a predefined user action configured to generate and associate the new label to the component; displaying a request for a description of the new label in response to the predefined user action; receiving the description for the new label; and associating the new label to the component.","The present invention is generally directed to a graphical user interface (\u201cGUI\u201d) panel development tool. More specifically, the present invention is directed to a program in the development tool that verifies whether a GUI panel is accessible to visually impaired users. In one embodiment, the program verifies whether each component, including the panel, has been associated with a label. In another embodiment, the program displays to the developer the components that have not been associated with a label. A graphical indication (e.g., an icon) indicating that the component has not been associated with a label may be placed proximate the component. In yet another embodiment, if a label has been provided but has not been associated with a component, then an image of that label may be displayed as being contained in a box with a solid border to indicate that the label has not been associated with a component. On the other hand, a label that has been associated with a component may be displayed as being contained in a box with a dashed border. In still another embodiment, brief descriptions corresponding to the icons are displayed. In yet another embodiment, the program allows the developer to associate a label that has not been associated with a component by selecting the label, the component and an action button configured to associate the label with the component. In still another embodiment, the program allows the developer to add a new label and associate the new label to a component by selecting the component and an action button configured to associate the new label with the component. Once the action button is selected, the developer is given the option to enter a description for the new label.","One embodiment of the invention is implemented as a program product for use with a computer system such as, for example, the computer system  shown in  and described below. The program(s) of the program product defines functions of the embodiments (including the methods described herein) and can be contained on a variety of signal-bearing media. Illustrative signal-bearing media include, but are not limited to: (i) information permanently stored on non-writable storage media (e.g., read-only memory devices within a computer such as CD-ROM disks readable by a CD-ROM drive); (ii) alterable information stored on writable storage media (e.g., floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard-disk drive); or (iii) information conveyed to a computer by a communications medium, such as through a computer or telephone network, including wireless communications. The latter embodiment specifically includes information downloaded from the Internet and other networks. Such signal-bearing media, when carrying computer-readable instructions that direct the functions of the present invention, represent embodiments of the present invention.","In general, the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention, may be part of an operating system or a specific application, component, program, module, object, or sequence of instructions. The computer program of the present invention typically is comprised of a multitude of instructions that will be translated by the native computer into a machine-readable format and hence executable instructions. Also, programs are comprised of variables and data structures that either reside locally to the program or are found in memory or on storage devices. In addition, various programs described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However, it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature that follows is used merely for convenience, and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and\/or implied by such nomenclature.","Referring now to , a computer system  in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In one embodiment, the computer system  is an enhanced IBM RS\/6000 computer system. However, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms and apparatus of the present invention apply equally to any computer system, regardless of whether the computer system is a complicated multi-user computing apparatus or a single user workstation. As shown in , the computer system  includes a processor  connected to a main memory , a mass storage interface , a display interface , and a network interface . These system components are interconnected through the use of a system bus . The mass storage interface  is used to connect mass storage devices (such as a direct access storage device ) to the computer system . One specific type of direct access storage device is a floppy disk drive, which may store data to and read data from a floppy diskette . Another specific type of direct access storage device is an optical storage. Although storage  is shown as a single unit, it could be any combination of fixed and\/or removable storage devices, such as fixed disc drives, floppy disc drives, tape drives, removable memory cards, or optical storage. The main memory  and the storage device  could be part of one virtual address space spanning multiple primary and secondary storage devices.","The contents of main memory  can be loaded from and stored to the storage device  as processor  has a need for it. Main memory  is any memory device sufficiently large to hold the necessary programming and data structures of the invention. The main memory  could be one or a combination of memory devices, including random access memory (RAM), non-volatile or backup memory such as programmable or flash memory or read-only memory (ROM). The main memory  may be physically located in another part of the computer system . While main memory  is shown as a single entity, it should be understood that memory  may in fact comprise a plurality of modules, and that main memory  may exist at multiple levels, from high speed registers and caches to lower speed but larger DRAM chips.","The main memory  in accordance with the preferred embodiments contains data  (which represents any input or output from a program on the system ), an operating system , a graphical user interface (GUI) panel builder , and an accessibility program . The computer system  utilizes well known virtual addressing mechanisms that allow the programs of the computer system  to behave as if they only have access to a large, single storage entity instead of access to multiple, smaller storage entities such as the main memory  and DASD device . Therefore, while data , the operating system , the accessibility program , and the GUI panel builder  are shown to reside in the main memory , those skilled in the art will recognize that these items are not necessarily all completely contained in the main memory  at the same time. It should also be noted that the term \u201cmemory\u201d is used herein to generically refer to the entire virtual memory of the computer system .","The GUI panel builder  is a tool that generates an image of the actual implementation of the GUI panel so as to enable a developer to define or manipulate the look and feel of the GUI panel and the components contained therein. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, the accessibility program  is configured to verify whether each component of a GUI panel, including the panel itself, has been associated with a label. In this context, a label is any information that may be audibly rendered (e.g., via a screen reader) and output (e.g., via some output device). In one embodiment, the accessibility program  displays to the developer an image of the panel containing an image of the components and an image of the labels. The accessibility program  may also visually indicate to the developer whether each component has been associated with a label. In another embodiment, the accessibility program  allows the developer to associate a component with a label without having to manually generate programming codes\/API calls. Embodiments illustrating various operations of the accessibility program will be discussed in details with reference to .","In general, operating system  is a sophisticated program that manages the resources of computer system . Some of these resources are processor , main memory , mass storage interface , display interface , network interface , and system bus . In one embodiment, the operating system  is a multitasking operating system known in the industry as AIX; however, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the spirit and scope of the present invention is not limited to any one operating system. In another embodiment, the operating system  supports an object oriented programming environment such as that provided, for example, by the Java programming language.","Processor  may be constructed from one or more microprocessors and\/or integrated circuits. Processor  executes program instructions stored in main memory . When computer system  starts up, processor  initially executes the program instructions that make up operating system .","Although computer system  is shown to contain only a single processor and a single system bus, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be practiced using a computer system that has multiple processors and\/or multiple buses. In addition, the interfaces that are used in one embodiment each include separate, fully programmed microprocessors that are used to off-load compute-intensive processing from processor . However, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention applies equally to computer systems that simply use I\/O adapters to perform similar functions.","Display interface  is used to directly connect one or more displays  to computer system . These displays  are used to display information to system administrators and users. Note, however, that while display interface  is provided to support communication with one or more displays , computer system  does not necessarily require a local display , because all needed interaction with users and other processes may occur via network interface  to displays on remote workstations.","The input interface  is used to directly connect the computer system  with an input device . The input device  can be any device to give input to the computer system . For example, a keyboard, keypad, light pen, touch screen, button, mouse, track ball, or speech recognition unit could be used. Further, although shown separately from the input device, the terminal display  and input device  could be combined. For example, a display screen with an integrated touch screen, a display with an integrated keyboard or a speech recognition unit combined with a text speech converter could be used.","Network interface  is used to connect other computer systems and\/or workstations (e.g.,  in ) to computer system  across a network . The present invention applies equally no matter how computer system  may be connected to other computer systems and\/or workstations, regardless of whether the network connection  is made using present-day analog and\/or digital techniques or via some networking mechanism of the future. In addition, many different network protocols can be used to implement a network. These protocols are specialized computer programs that allow computers to communicate across network . TCP\/IP (Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol) is an example of a suitable network protocol.","It is also important to point out that the presence of network interface  within computer system  means that computer system  may engage in cooperative processing with one or more other computer systems or workstations on network . Of course, this in turn means that the programs and data shown in main memory  need not necessarily all reside on computer system . For example, one or more portions shown in main memory  may reside on another system and engage in cooperative processing with one or more objects or programs that reside on computer system . This cooperative processing could be accomplished through use of one of the well known client-server mechanisms such as remote procedure call (RPC).","Referring now to , a graphical user interface  in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. When the developer invokes the accessibility program , e.g., by selecting an option from a pull down menu or a toolbar, the accessibility program  determines whether the panel of interest and the components contained therein are accessible to visually impaired users. The operation of the accessibility program  will be discussed in the following paragraphs, particularly with reference to . The result of the determination is then displayed in the graphical user interface . In one embodiment, the graphical user interface  contains an image of the panel (\u201cpanel image\u201d)  in which the developer is interested (along with an image of the components and the labels contained therein), an accessibility results list , and a set of action buttons .","Upon invoking the accessibility program , a determination or verification is made as to whether each component, including the panel, is associated with a label. In one embodiment, if the component is a graphical component, such as a picture, the label that describes the component is defined as an alternative display text. On the other hand, if the component is a non-graphical component, e.g., such as a text entry field , the label that describes the component is defined as a caption text. In one embodiment, every component and its associated label, whether it is a caption text or an alternative display text, is verified.","In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, the panel image  displays a number of icons, such as the icons \u2013. These icons \u2013 are configured to visually indicate to the developer the areas that may have accessibility problem. In one embodiment, the icons \u2013 are illustrated as circles with a cross inside each circle. In another embodiment, the icons \u2013 are placed proximate their respective components. Other symbols, however, may be used to illustrate the icons \u2013.","In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, the panel image  further displays the label that is associated with each component. For instance, \u201cFirst Name\u201d is the label associated with the text entry field . The box with a dashed border  containing the label, e.g., \u201cFirst Name\u201d, indicates that the label has been associated with the component, e.g., the text entry field . The line  drawn between the label, e.g., \u201cFirst Name\u201d, and the component, e.g., the text entry field , further indicates the association between the label and the component. In this manner, the developer may easily visually identify which components have been associated with their respective labels.","On the other hand, if a label has been provided but has not been associated, the label, e.g., \u201cLast Name\u201d, is displayed inside a box with a solid border . The non-existence of a solid line between a text entry field  and its label, \u201cLast Name\u201d, indicates the absence of association between the component, i.e., the text entry field , and its label, e.g., \u201cLast Name.\u201d In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, if a label has not been provided, then only an icon, e.g., icon , is illustrated proximate the component, e.g., a table . Various embodiments discussed in the previous paragraphs would be applicable regardless whether the label is a caption text or an alternative display text.","In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, the graphical user interface  further contains the accessibility results list . The accessibility results list  provides a brief description for every icon \u2013 displayed on the panel image . For instance, the first line on the list  pertains to icon  and indicates that text entry field  is missing a label. The second line on the list  pertains to icon  and indicates that the table  is missing a label. The third line on the list  pertains to icon  and indicates that a label, i.e., \u201cLast Name\u201d, is found but has not been associated with a component. In one embodiment, when a line containing a brief description in the accessibility results list  is selected, the component to which the brief description pertains is also selected. Conversely, in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, when a component with an icon proximate it is selected, the line containing a brief description of the icon is also selected. These embodiments are provided to assist the developer in identifying which components have accessibility problems, i.e., have not been associated with a label. In another embodiment, the brief descriptions are listed in the order of severity, i.e., the brief description indicating the most severe accessibility problem is displayed first or at the top of the list.","In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, the GUI  also illustrates a set of action buttons . When one of these buttons  is selected, a set of programming codes, such as programming API calls, is generated to programmatically create or modify the association between a component and its label. The API calls are configured to automatically set the internal data structures and relationships between the component and its label. Instead of having to manually write programming codes to associate each component with its label, the developer simply has to choose which action button to select. In this manner, embodiments of the present invention provide a user friendly environment for developers to create and modify associations between components and their respective labels. The set of action buttons  may be represented in various implementations, such as buttons on a tool bar or selectable options on a pull-down menu.","In one embodiment, the set of action buttons  includes an Associate Caption button, an Edit Caption button and an Edit Alternative Display Text button. The Associate Caption button is configured to associate a label that has been provided but has not been associated with a component. That is, when the label, the component, and the Associate Caption button are selected, the label is associated with the component. For instance, when the label \u201cLast Name\u201d, its respective component, i.e., text entry field , and the Associate Caption button are selected, the label \u201cLast Name\u201d is associated with text entry field , as illustrated in .","In accordance with another embodiment, the set of action buttons  is configured to generate a new label and associate that new label to its respective component. In one embodiment, the set of action buttons  is configured to modify a description of a label that is already associated with a component. In one embodiment, when the developer desires to generate a new label that is to be associated to a component, the developer simply selects the component and either the Edit Caption button, if the label is a caption text, or the Edit Alternative Display Text button, if the label is an alternative display text, and provides a description for the new label. In one embodiment, when either the Edit Caption button or the Edit Alternative Display Text button is selected, the GUI  displays a window for the developer to input the description for the new label. For instance, when the table  and the Edit Caption button are selected, and the developer inputs \u201cWage\u201d as the description for a new label to be associated with the table , the new label \u201cWage\u201d is associated with the table , as illustrated in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","310","125","320","126","125","126","126","330","210","340","211","213"]},"In addition to the panel image, an accessibility results list, e.g., the accessibility results list , is also displayed at step . As described earlier, the accessibility results list provides a brief description of every icon displayed in the panel image. After seeing the panel image with all its accessibility problems, as indicated by the icons and the accessibility results list, the developer has a choice of ending the process  or correcting the accessibility problems. Thus, at step , a determination is made as to whether a user input is received indicating the process  to end, i.e., closing the accessibility program . If so, then the process  ends and the GUI builder  exits out of the accessibility mode.","On the other hand, if the developer desires to correct the accessibility problems, then a set of user inputs selecting the label and the component to be associated will be received (step ), followed by a user input selecting the particular action button (step ). For instance, if the developer desires to associate the label \u201cLast Name\u201d with the text entry field , the developer will select the label \u201cLast Name\u201d and the text entry field . Then, the developer will select the Associate Caption button to associate \u201cLast Name\u201d with the text entry field . If the developer desires to add the label \u201cWage\u201d to the table , the developer will select the table  and the Edit Caption button. The developer will then be given the option to enter \u201cWage\u201d as the description for the label. After step , processing returns to step  at which the verification process is repeated. In one embodiment, the panel image and the accessibility results list are refreshed (i.e., the prior panel image and the accessibility results list are discarded) prior to displaying a new panel image at step  and a new accessibility results list at step . In this manner, the panel image and accessibility results list remain current. In another embodiment, the process  continues until a user input selecting to end the process  is received.","While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention, other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof, and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["So that the manner in which the above recited features, advantages and objects of the present invention are attained and can be understood in detail, a more particular description of the invention, briefly summarized above, may be had by reference to the embodiments thereof which are illustrated in the appended drawings.","It is to be noted, however, that the appended drawings illustrate only typical embodiments of this invention and are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope, for the invention may admit to other equally effective embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
