---
title: Network monitoring method and system
abstract: The present invention permits a network operator to maintain a timely view of changes to an operational packet-switched network. In an exemplary embodiment, the method includes subscribing to routing protocol messages received from a plurality of network elements participating in a routing protocol in the packet-switched network. Then, the routing protocol messages from the network elements are received without participating in the routing protocol. Subsequently, the method detects deviations from normal operation of the packet-switched network using the routing protocol messages received from the network elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860024&OS=07860024&RS=07860024
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property II, L.P.
number: 07860024
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021230
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This Utility Patent application is a continuation-in-part of United States Utility Patent Application, \u201cPACKET-SWITCHED NETWORK TOPOLOGY TRACKING METHOD AND SYSTEM,\u201d Ser. No. 10\/063,867, filed on May 21, 2002, which claims priority to United States Provisional Application \u201cOSPF TOPOLOGY SERVER,\u201d Ser. No. 60\/292,415, filed on May 21, 2001, the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.","The present invention relates to network management, and, more particularly, to monitoring routing behaviour in a packet-switched network.","Packet-switched networks, such as networks based on the TCP\/IP protocol suite, can be utilized by a network operator to provide a rich array of services. Networks of routers that store and forward Internet Protocol (IP) packets are becoming the single ubiquitous network for almost all communication needs. Within a single Autonomous System (AS) in an IP network, routing of packets is controlled by an interior gateway protocol, such as OSPF (Open Shortest Path Forwarding). See, e.g., J. Moy, \u201cOSPF Version 2,\u201d Request for Comments 2328, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), Network Working Group, April 1998, which is incorporated by reference herein. OSPF is a \u201clink state\u201d routing protocol, meaning that each router within the AS discovers and builds an entire view of the network topology. Every router running OSPF is responsible for describing a certain part of the network in a Link State Advertisements (LSA) which is flooded reliably to other routers in the network. The LSAs are utilized by each router to construct a weighted topological graph which the router uses to compute a shortest path tree. The router thereby builds a forwarding table that assures that packets are forwarded along the shortest paths in terms of link weights to their destination.","As users depend increasingly on a common packet-switched infrastructure for mission-critical needs, they require that the network provide increased reliability and support for new services. Systems for managing IP networks today, unfortunately, are targeted at element-level fault diagnosis and troubleshooting\u2014and not to meet stringent needs of real-time resource tracking or provisioning for a given customer. For instance, to ensure reliability of the network it is important to ascertain customers who will be impacted by a particular interface failure. To provision capacity, e.g. for a given virtual leased line, it is critical to know the current topology of the network and thus know the path that the data for the line will follow. Current systems offer insufficient predictability in the network for a service provider to learn the paths that may be taken by some particular portion of the traffic coming into the network.","The present invention permits a network operator to maintain a timely view of changes to an operational packet-switched network. In accordance with an aspect of the invention, an architecture is provided enabling analysis of routing behaviour by passively monitoring the existing reliable link state flooding mechanism of an intradomain routing protocol such as OSPF. It is preferable to divide the monitoring mechanism into two functional components: \u201creflectors\u201d which are responsible for passively receiving the link state information and an \u201caggregator\u201d which collects the information to form an overall view of the entire domain, that is accessible to other network monitoring applications. The aggregator subscribes to one or more of the reflectors with regard to particular areas of the network. The reflectors can be incorporated functionally into network routers or preferably can be established in a partial adjacency with a pre-existing router. Where OSPF is the routing protocol utilized, the reflector can take advantage of an intermediate loading state in the protocol to establish an adjacency with the router without impacting the routing behavior of the rest of the network.","The present invention advantageously requires no changes to existing network routing or management protocols or systems. The present invention imposes no penalties on packet routing, forwarding, or network reliability. The view of topology maintained by the system is identical to that in the router databases. Following an event that changes the topology of the network, the aggregator's view should converge to the new view near the time that the routers themselves converge to the new view. Updates to the topology can be reliably and rapidly detected. Moreover, logs of the routing protocol messages can be stored by the reflectors and published to network monitoring applications for analysis. Deviations from normal operation by the packet-switched network can be readily detected using the routing protocol messages. These and other advantages of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","111","127","111","127","101","102","103","104","115","116","119","120","123","124","111","127","111","127"]},"In accordance with a preferred embodiment of an aspect of the invention, the task of collecting topology information and synthesizing a global view of the network topology is divided into two principal functional components: referred to by the inventors as an LSA \u201caggregator\u201d (\u201cLSAG\u201d)  and one or more LSA \u201creflectors\u201d (\u201cLSAR\u201ds) , , . The LSA reflectors , ,  are responsible for collecting LSA information that a link state protocol such as OSPF naturally floods throughout each network area to ensure that the routers arrive at a common view of the network topology. Each LSA reflector forwards that information to the LSA aggregator which \u201caggregates\u201d the topology view of each LSA reflector into a single view of the entire OSPF domain. Separating the LSAR and LSAG functions advantageously provides a degree of fault isolation; each function can be simplified and replicated independently to increase overall reliability. Another benefit is that the LSAG may subscribe to a subset of the LSAs, for example, just the router and network LSAs for a given OSPF area. Moreover, separating the LSAG from the LSAR function allows a network operator to conduct significant modifications to the LSAG, e.g. as new functionalities are added, without disturbing the operation of the LSARs.","The structure and operation of the LSA aggregator  and the LSA reflectors , ,  are explained in further detail herein.","LSA AGGREGATOR. The LSA aggregator  is responsible for handling all complex logic in tracking the network topology: e.g., storing and managing the topology updates, filling in an appropriate topology data model, and providing advantageous application programming interfaces to applications that require network topology views.  shows a high-level architectural view of an advantageous embodiment of an LSA aggregator . The LSAG  can be a conventional server computer\u2014typically comprising a storage device , a network interface , all connected to one or more central processing units  operating under the control of software program instructions stored in a memory unit . The storage device  is typically a fast hard disk, which is utilized by the central processing unit  to store three main databases: a topology view , a subscription database , and a configuration database . It is advantageous to roughly divide the software program instructions into two main program modules: a subscription manager  and a session manager .","The session manager  performs the task of managing communication sessions with the various LSARs.  sets forth a simplified flowchart of the processing performed by the LSAG, as the session manager checks for various session events. At step , the session manager establishes a set of initial sessions with the LSARs per the direction of the subscription manager. For example and without limitation, the LSAG can use its network interface(s) to establish TCP connections to the relevant LSAR(s). The LSAG and the LSAR can communicate using an advantageous message protocol, such as the LSAG-LSAR protocol described in further detail below. At step , the session manager monitors the sessions for any incoming messages. If a message has arrived, the session manager will proceed to process the message, depending on the message contents. At step , the session manager will update the subscription database, as described in further detail herein. At step , the session manager will update the topology view, where the LSAR communicates a message indicating a change to the network topology. At step , the session manager will notify the subscription manager when any relevant changes to the topology or to the subscriptions have occurred. At step , the session manager manages the sessions, for example by sending \u201ckeep-alive\u201d messages to an LSAR, resetting connection timers, etc. At step , the session manager processes any directives received from the subscription manager, including any directives to establish a new session or close an existing session with an LSAR.","Accordingly, the session manager builds and updates the topology view using the messages received from each LSAR. The data structures underlying the topology view are accessible to various applications, preferably using an application programming interface.  shows an abstract representation of an advantageous topology data structure model maintained by the LSAG. Five data types are used to store the topology information. The structures and their relationships are shown in . The TopArea  structure contains information related to an OSPF area, such as the area-id. Structures TopRouter  and TopNetwork  represent a router and a network (e.g., a local area network) in the area. Each TopArea  node contains a set of TopRouter  and TopNetwork  nodes, thereby representing all the routers and networks in the area. The structure TopInterface  represents a single physical interface on a router. Thus, each TopRouter  node has a set of TopInterface  nodes corresponding to all the interfaces the router has in the given area. Finally, the structures TopLink represents a link between a router-router pair  or a router-network pair . Separate structures are designated for an interface and a link because OSPF allows multiple logical links over a single physical link, e.g. in the case of point-to-multipoint links. Thus, every interface has a set of TopLink nodes, thereby allowing us to store multiple links for a single interface. A TopNetwork  node directly stores its set of TopLink nodes. Each link node represents a unidirectional link with its OSPF weight. The link also stores a reference to its local end which could be a TopInterface node or a TopNetwork node, and a reference to its remote node which could be a TopRouter or a TopNetwork node. The link also stores a reference to the reverse link if one exists. Note that a link can exist between a pair of routers or between a router and a network but not between a pair of networks. The aims of the data structure design in  are simplicity and generality. It is advantageous for the structure to mirror those of the OSPF builds in the routers' link state databases, thereby allowing easy verification and comparison of the functionality of different implementations. Alternative structures may also be utilized that are better adapted to rapid search or other applications.","The subscription manager  decides which LSAR to contact and what network areas to subscribe for. The subscription database  contains this subscription related information, for example in a database structure organized as shown in . The sub_info structure is indexed by both the area ID and the router ID of an LSAR. The sub_info structure basically has two parameters: attached which indicates whether the associated LSAR is attached to the corresponding area; and subscribed which indicates whether the LSAG has subscribed to the LSAR for the area or not. These two parameters are orthogonal to each other, so there are four possible combinations. The subscription database should keep all entries for which attached and subscribed both have a value of \u201cyes\u201d, but it is also advantageous to the subscription manager to keep other entries. For example, the subscription manager can lookup entries which are attached to a given area but to which it is not subscribed in order to subscribe to the area at some later time when another subscribed LSAR finds itself detached from the area. It should be noted that the structure shown in  is merely illustrative; although area_info and rtr_info structures are shown arranged in a doubly linked list, they can be readily implemented in other more efficient structure such as a Patricia tree.","As the session manager  receives various messages from the LSARs, it updates the subscription database . Any changes, for example in the attached or subscribed parameter, are communicated back to the subscription manager . In accordance with an embodiment of another aspect of the invention, the subscription manager  can then run a \u201cdecision\u201d algorithm to select a course of action. For example and without limitation, consider an LSAG that has established a session with an LSAR and has subscribed for some given area A. At some point, the LSAR gets detached from area A and sends this information to the LSAG using the protocol described below. This message is received by the session manager  which then updates the subscription database  and informs the subscription manager  of this change. The subscription manager  can then ask the session manager  to establish a session with some other LSAR to subscribe for area A. The subscription manager  can consult the configuration database  to find what LSAR to contact for area A, or it can base its decision by looking at the topology view itself. More sophisticated decision algorithms may be readily implemented which advantageously require little to no intervention from a human operator.","LSA REFLECTOR. The LSA reflector , ,  in  is responsible for collecting and forwarding topology information to the LSAG . There are a number of possible ways to obtain such link state information. One way, for example, is by having the LSAR passively snoop on the LSAs that flow around the network. Where OSPF is operated over a broadcast network, such as an Ethernet-based architecture, the LSAR can take advantage of the broadcast capabilities and join the special link state flood multicast group without forwarding any link state advertisements to the designated (or backup designated) router. Another more advantageous way is to passively participate in the LSA flooding process without actively participating in the forwarding of packets, e.g. by establishing an \u201cadjacency\u201d with a router in the network. This approach exploits the stream of LSAs that OSPF already reliably floods throughout the network while minimizing possible disturbances to the operational network.","Such an embodiment may be readily constructed by modifying a conventional OSPF hardware router or OSPF routing software such as GateD or Zebra. Such modifications preferably include the following:\n\n","A more preferable method is to exploit standardized features of the OSPF protocol that permit links to the LSAR to carry LSAs from the routers, but do not permit neighbors to accept LSAs from the LSAR. This can be accomplished by keeping the LSAR-router adjacency in essentially a \u201changing\u201d state such that the two ends start the database synchronization but never finish it. One method to achieve this is to have the LSAR originate an LSA L and inform the router that it has this LSA during the synchronization process but never actually send it out to the router. This ensures that the database is never synchronized and hence the adjacency is never fully established from the router's perspective. As a result of this, the adjacent router never gets to advertise a link to the LSAR in its Router LSA although it sends all the LSAs it receives to the LSAR as part of the flooding procedure. A side benefit of this approach is that any instability in the LSAR does not impact other routers in the network. Based on practical experience with various commercial router implementations, the inventors have not seen any alarms generated by this procedure; the only side effect of this hanging adjacency appears to be repeated link state request packets sent by the router to acquire the LSA L from the LSAR.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["601","602","603","604","605","606","607","608"]},"The above LSAR architecture advantageously does not require any modifications to existing conventional routers in a pre-existing packet-switched network. It should be noted however that the function of the LSAR can be readily incorporated into that of a conventional router. The router need only by enhanced to implement the LSAG-LSAR protocol described below.","LSAG-LSAR PROTOCOL. The communication between an LSAG and an LSAR can utilize any underlying transport mechanism and advantageous communication protocol.  sets forth a useful specification of object formats to be exchanged between the LSAG and the LSAR. The objects can be encapsulated in one or more messages and sent over a TCP connection. Each message can contain a header, for example, which specifies a destination ID, a source ID, and a length. Where the destination\/source is an LSAR, its ID should be its OSPF router ID. Where the destination\/source is an LSAG, it should be the IP address of one of its interfaces. It is recommended that the LSAG uses the same IP address in all the messages it generates. The objects shown in  can be encoded, e.g., in a type-length-value format.","A session is initiated by an LSAG: the LSAG acts as a client and the LSAR acts as a server in the session. The HoldTime object  is useful for managing sessions between an LSAG and the LSARs. Once a session has been established, each end can ensure that it sends at least one message within a \u201ckeep alive\u201d period. At the end of the period if a node does not have an object to send, it sends an empty message. If a node does not receive any message from the other end with a value specified in a HoldTime object, it assumes that the other end is dead and terminates the session. Once the session is established, the LSAG can subscribe or unsubscribe to the LSAR for any area at any time using the Subscribe object  and the Unsubscribe object  respectively. The area ID can be represented the same way it is in OSPF. A special wild-card can be used when the LSAG wants to subscribe for all the areas the LSAR is attached. As described above, the LSAR keeps track of all the areas the LSAG is currently subscribing for in a subscription list. The LSAR may not be attached to all of the areas that the LSAG is subscribing for. If that is the case, the LSAR sends back a message with a Detached-area object . Similarly, if the LSAR gets attached to an area at some point, it sends an Attached-area object  to the LSAG. As mentioned above, the LSAR sends every LSA that it accepts into an area's link state database where the area is in the subscription list associated with an LSAG. These LSAs are sent out in TopologyInfo objects .","LSA ANALYSIS. It is advantageous for the LSARs to store and maintain logs of the link state information each LSAR receives. These LSA logs can be transmitted back to the LSAG or accessed by a separate network monitoring application for analysis. At the LSAR or at the network monitoring application, it is advantageous to provide capabilities to select only those LSAs that satisfy predicates, for example, to select only those LSAs which satisfy expressions such as (area==3 and (type==1 or type==2)), etc. It is also advantageous to provide the analysis tool with some kind of \u201crerun\u201d capability to enable post-mortem analysis.  shows an example of an LSA log.","These LSA logs prove to be very valuable for detecting deviations from normal network operations. For example, and without limitation, the LSA traffic can be analyzed by first establishing a baseline for what the inventors refer to as \u201crefresh\u201d LSA traffic which is the class of LSAs triggered by OSPF's soft-state refresh mechanisms. The refresh traffic can then be analyzed, for example using time series analysis, to investigate the periodicity and synchronization of the refresh traffic. It is possible to predict the rate of refresh LSA traffic from information obtained form the router configuration files. It is advantageous to utilize an automated router configuration analysis tool, such as disclosed in co-pending commonly-assigned utility patent application, \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PACKET NETWORK CONFIGURATION DEBUGGING AND DATABASE,\u201d Ser. No. 09\/692,276, filed on Oct. 19, 2000, the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.","The average rate Nof the refresh LSAs received at a given router R can be computed, for example, as follows. It is assumed that the set Lof unique LSA identifiers in router R's link state database is constant. That is, network elements are not being introduced or withdrawn. The term LSA is used interchangeably here with LSA identifier. Let Fdenote the average rate of refreshes for a given LSA I in the link state database. Then, N=F*L. Let D denote the set of LSAs originated by all routers in the OSPF domain, and Sthe set of routers that receive a particular LSA I. Then, the set Lcan be expressed as L=D\/Swhich together with the equation above determines N. Thus, it can be seen that estimating the LSA refresh traffic at a router requires three parameters: (1) D, the set of LSAs originated by all the routers in the OSPF domain, (2) for each LSA I in D, S, the set of routers that can receive I, and (3) for each LSA I in D, the associated refresh rate F.","These three parameters may be estimated as follows. To determine D, it is possible to use information available in router configuration files. In particular, it is not hard to count the exact number of internal LSAs using configuration files. For example, a router configuration file specifies the OSPF area associated with each interface of the router. It is possible to derive the number of router LSAs a given router originates by counting the number of unique areas associated with the router's interfaces. On the other hand, it is impossible to estimate the exact number of external LSAs from configuration files. In general, the number of external LSAs depend on which prefixes are injected. This in turn depends on the dynamics of learned information. However, one can use heuristics to determine external LSAs using the filtering clauses in configuration files that control external route injection. For example, one can use the heuristic that every external prefix explicitly permitted via configuration is in fact injected as an external LSA. Calculating the parameter S, on the other hand, for LSA I is equivalent to counting the routers in the flooding scope of I. This count can be determined by constructing the OSPF topology and area structure automatically from the configuration files. To estimate the refresh rate Fof LSA I a crude option is to use the recommended value of 30 minutes from the OSPF specification. In practice, better estimates can be obtained by combining configuration information with published information on the router vendor's refresh algorithm.","Having baselined the LSA refresh traffic, an analysis can be made of LSA traffic triggered by changes in the status of the network. It is helpful to first classify these LSAs by whether they indicate external or internal changes. Internal changes are conveyed by router and network LSAs within the area in which change occurs and by summary LSAs outside the area. External changes are conveyed by external LSAs. Having isolated the change LSAs and attributed them to either internal or external changes, it is then possible to look at the underlying causes. For example, an internal error in a crucial router such as a designated router in a LAN can cause the router to drop and re-establish adjacencies with other routers on the LAN creating a spike of change LSAs which can indicate to a network operator that the network is at risk of partitioning. Such a failure, although readily detectable by the present invention as a spike in change LSA traffic, may in fact elude traditional network monitoring techniques such as SNMP based fault and performance management system. As another example, a large number of external LSA changes can indicate that an external link is \u201cflapping.\u201d A closer inspection of the network conditions may reveal that the link is overloaded, which may lead to one of the routers repeatedly announcing and withdrawing prefixes via the external LSAs. The flapping of a single link can cause a large number of external change LSAs that can be readily detected by analysis of the LSA logs.","It is also advantageous to analyze the LSA traffic for \u201cduplicate\u201d LSAs, namely the class of extra copies of LSAs received as a result of redundancy in OSPF's reliable LSA flooding mechanism. A certain level of duplicate LSA traffic is to be expected; nevertheless, processing duplicate LSAs wastes CPU resources and it is advantageous to understand the circumstances that lead to such duplicate LSA traffic and to reduce their volume. For example, asymmetries can be observed in duplicate LSA traffic that are unusual given the symmetry of the physical network design. The inventors have found that such asymmetries can be due to asymmetries in the logical OSPF control plane topology. Knowing this, a network operator could then reduce duplicate LSA traffic by merely altering the routers' logical OSPF configurations without changing the physical structure of the network.","The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary, but not restrictive, and the scope of the invention disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description, but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present invention and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. For example, the detailed description describes an embodiment of the invention with particular reference to OSPF and IP packet routing. However, the principles of the present invention could be readily extended to other protocols. For example and without limitation, the present invention can be readily extended to MPLS and variations on MPLS (such as MPLambdaS or GMPLS) which employ interior gateway protocols such as OSPF for topology discovery. Such an extension could be readily implemented by one of ordinary skill in the art given the above disclosure."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
