---
title: Hybrid lidar-radar for medical diagnostics
abstract: A hybrid lidar-radar system for detecting the presence of objects, such as cancerous tumors, within tissues by detecting reflected signals from the tissue and discriminating the information related to the cancerous tumor from the undesirable backscattering of light created by the tissue itself. The hybrid lidar-radar system utilizes continuous wave light that is preferably modulated at frequencies up to 60 GHz. The present invention filters the return signals from the tissue at a subcarrier modulation frequency so as to reject erroneous information contained in scattered lights, while at the same time retaining the coherent, unscattered and modulated light information so as to provide for an accuracy detection of tumors within tissues.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07010339&OS=07010339&RS=07010339
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07010339
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020729
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","1.0. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to optical imaging of tissues and, more particularly, to a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) system for medical diagnostics particularly suited for detecting the presence of inhomogeneities in tissues, such as tumors.","2.0. Description of the Related Art","The noninvasive and early detection of biological tissue abnormalities with submillimeter dimensions, such as cancerous tumors, is an important challenge and constant improvements are being sought. The well-established X-ray and ultrasound techniques lack the resolution to detect such small objects some of which may be cancerous tumors. In addition, the risk of tissue ionization that may damage healthy tissues prevents the use of X-rays for routine examination. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has submillimeter resolution, but the cost of this technique is still high for general use.","The need for a safe, inexpensive, and efficient method for the early detection of tissue imperfections, such as cancerous tumors, has led to the investigation of optical imaging techniques. For such applications, light between 600 and 1300 nm that falls within a transmission window is minimally absorbed as it propagates through tissue and can therefore be used to non-invasively probe internal structures in search of tissue abnormalities. The existence of this transmission window, combined with the highly forward directed scattering of light, allows for substantial penetration of light in tissue in search of tumors. The main disadvantage of using optical light inside the body is that light is highly scattered by tissue. This optical scattering degrades an image in several different ways. First, some light that does not reach the object, such as the cancerous tumor, is disadvantageously reflected by intervening particles of the tissue itself into the receiver field of view. This backscattered, diffuse light creates a background noise level that degrades the image contrast. Secondly, light that reaches and is reflected from the object encounters small forward angle scattering on its travel back to the receiver and is commonly referred to as snake photons or snake light. These snake photons limit the photon detection and degrade contrast by decreasing the image sharpness or resolution.","Unlike photon limited detection, contrast limited detection cannot be improved simply by increasing the transmitted optical power (or the detector quantum efficiency). However, a method for separating the unscattered or minimally scattered, ballistic or snake photons from the diffuse photons that have been scattered several times could be used to improve object detection and imaging. These improvements may be further described with reference to  composed of , (B) and (C) illustrating the three most popular approaches for accomplishing this task of improving object detection and imaging and which are a time domain () approach, a coherence domain () approach, and a frequency domain () approach. It is important to note that the approaches depicted in  and , to be described hereinafter, are shown for a transmission type measurement (i.e., the light is transmitted from one side of the tissue and light is detected from the other side of the tissue) to simplify the explanation. These techniques can also be used in a reflection type measurement (i.e., the light is transmitted from one side of the tissue and light is detected from the same side of the tissue).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","16","12","16","14","16","12","18","20","22","18","24","26"]},"The time domain approach () transmits a light pulse , in the direction , into the tissue , and uses differences in the time delay between highly scattered and minimally scattered photons included in the composite reflected signal . Light that travels the most direct path, identified as ballistic light , between the transmitter and receiver will arrive first, and photons that propagate along longer paths due to multiple scattering identified as snake and diffuse light,  and , respectively, will arrive at progressively later times. The ballistic light  is identified in the received section  of  as contained in the smaller signal , whereas the multiple scattered light  and  are identified in the received section of  as contained in the larger signal .","The time domain approach of  uses a high speed shutter, generally identified by reference number , that is opened for a short time to allow only the early photons associated with the ballistic light  to be detected and is then closed to leave out the multiply scattered, delayed photons associated with the multiple scattered light  and . One associated approach uses a streak camera receiver, which is capable of very short (picosecond) gate times and dynamic ranges on the order of 10and is disclosed in the technical article of B. B. Das, D. M. Yoo, R. R. Alfano, entitled \u201cUltrafast Time-Gates Imaging in Thick Tissues: A Step Toward Optical Mammography,\u201d published in , vol. 18, pp. 1092\u20131094, Jul. 1993. An additional approach is disclosed in the technical article of D. J. Hall, J. C. Hebden, D. T. Delphy, entitled \u201cImaging Very-Low-Contrast Objects in Breastlike Scattering Media with a Time-Resolved Method,\u201d published in , vol. 36, pp. 7270\u20137276, October 1997. Other related techniques use nonlinear mixing of the received pulse and the delayed transmitted pulse to perform the temporal discrimination, such as that disclosed in the technical article of Bashkansky and J. Reintjes, entitled \u201cNonlinear-Optical Field CrossCorrelation Techniques for Medical Imaging with Lasers,\u201d published in , vol. 32, pp. 3842\u20133845, July 1993, as well as another approach disclosed in the technical article of F. Liu, K. M. Yoo, R. R. Alfano, entitled \u201cUltrafast Laser-Pulse Transmission and Imaging Through Biological Tissues,\u201d published in , vol. 32, pp. 554\u2013558, February 1993. The main disadvantage of the time-gated operations included in the time domain approach is that the receiver bandwidth must be large to recover the short transmitted pulse. This increases system complexity and receiver noise.","The coherence domain approach (FIG. (B)), transmits a burst of light  in the direction  into the tissue  and uses coherent gate devices, associated with the received section , which rely on optical interference between the image-bearing photons (contained in the scattered signal ). The multiply scattered light consisting of a component  associated with the snake light  and a component  associated with the diffuse light  becomes uncorrelated with the transmitted light and does not produce an interference signal. One such coherence approach is more fully described in the technical article of J. A. Izatt, M. D. Kulkarni, K. Kobayashi, M. V. Sivak, J. K. Barton, and A. J. Welsch, entitled \u201cOptical Coherence Tomography for Biodiagnostics,\u201d published in , vol. 8, pp. 41\u201347, 1997, whereas another such coherence approach is disclosed by M. R. Hee, J. A. Izatt, J. M. Jacobson, and J. G. Fujimoto, in the technical article entitled \u201cFemtosecond Transillumination Optical Coherence Tomography,\u201d published in , vol. 18, pp. 950\u2013952, 1993. A further related article is disclosed by A. F. Fercher, entitled \u201cOptical Coherence Tomography,\u201d published in 1, no. 2, pp. 157\u2013173, April 1996.","In the coherence domain approach of , optical interference occurs only for photons that are coherent with the reference signal. More particularly, optical interference occurs only between signals  and . Therefore, diffuse, incoherent photons associated with snake light  and diffused light  are gated out in this approach. Since the length of the gate opening is determined by the coherence length of the reference pulse , very short coherence length sources, such as light emitting diodes, are being investigated for use in this technique. Although micrometer resolution of suspected tumors is possible with this technique, the penetration depth to encompass the target  is limited to 1\u20132 mm due to the high degree of optical scattering and subsequent loss of optical coherence.","The frequency domain approach () is a variation of the time domain method of . The frequency domain approach of  transmits a signal  in the direction  into the tissue  and uses phase  and amplitude  measurements associated with the received section  to measure the relationship between the ballistic light , snake light , and diffused light , all shown in  in the received section .","Since the time and frequency domains of the associated transmitted and reflected signals are related through Fourier transforms, approaches similar to the time gating technique can be used in the frequency domain approach. While the time domain approach uses amplitude and time to discriminate multiply scattered, diffuse photons of light from the more direct snake and ballistic photons of light, the frequency domain uses the differences in the amplitude  and phase  of a modulated optical signal to perform this task.","Since the majority of photons are scattered many times while traversing a very turbid medium, such as that of tissues, previous work has focused on low frequency (<1 GHz) modulation of signal  and diffusely scattered light to detect imbedded objects, such as tumors in tissues. One such approach is disclosed in the technical article of M. A. O\u2032Leary, D. A. Boas, B. Chance, A. G. Yodh, entitled \u201cExperimental Images of Heterogeneous Turbid Media by Frequency-Domain Diffusing-Photon Tomography,\u201d published in , Vol. 20, pp. 426\u2013428, 1995. Further, U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,064,917, 5,917,190, 5,424,843 describe features associated with the frequency domain approach.","The benefits of this frequency domain approach include reduced system complexity and receiver bandwidth. Furthermore, the absorption and scattering properties of the tissue can be calculated through use of diffusion equations and the measured amplitude and phase information. The main disadvantage is that an extremely precise measurement of the phase associated with the transmitted and reflected signals is required to achieve high depth resolution of possible tumors at these low (<1 GHz) modulation frequencies. The other disadvantage is that at these low modulation frequencies, the signal is dominated by diffuse photons that severely degrade the image quality. It is desired to provide a system for detecting the presence of cancerous tumors in tissues that does not suffer the drawbacks of the systems of , (B), and (C).","It is an object of the present invention to provide for optical imaging in a tissue to the detection of tissue inhomogeneities, such as a cancerous tumor, by using transmitted light that enters into a volume of target tissue that encompasses suspected tumors and discriminating scattered light associated with the cancerous tumors from the from the diffuse scattered, or backscattered, light associated with normal, healthy tissue.","It is another object of the present invention to provide for relatively high modulation signals that result in improved phase and amplitude sensitivity so as to obtain more accurate detection of cancerous tumors within the tissue.","It is another object of the present invention to provide improved optical imaging by providing a system that combines the advantageous optical penetration features of the lidar system with the advantageous coherent detection schemes of radar.","It is another object of the present invention to provide for relatively high modulation signals that result in improved phase sensitivity so as to obtain more accurate detection of cancerous tumors within the tissue.","This invention is directed to a hybrid lidar-radar system for detecting the presence of an object which in one form is tissue inhomogeneities, such as cancerous tumors, within the tissue by the detection of reflected and scattered light signals from the tissue and discriminating the information related to the cancerous tumors from the scattering of light created by the tissue itself.","The hybrid lidar-radar system comprises a source of microwave energy, a source of light, an optical detector, and a microwave receiver.","The source of microwave energy provides a microwave subcarrier signal. The source of light provides for, and is transmitted toward the tissue, an optical carrier signal that is modulated by the microwave subcarrier signal. The source of light transports the microwave subcarrier signal through the tissue and is reflected and scattered by the tissue. The detector detects the scattered and reflected light and produces electrical signals indicative thereof.","The optical detector provides an output signal to a network analyzer. The network analyzer receives the produced electrical signals and measures the phase and amplitude differences between the light scattered from the tissue and a reference signal for the detection of the object, that is, in one embodiment the cancerous tumor.","With reference to the drawings, wherein the same reference number indicates the same element throughout, there is shown in  an illustration of overall operation of the present invention using modulation frequencies to improve the rejection of multiple scattered, diffused photons from reflected light being examined and to enhance the image contrast and resolution for detecting tumors residing in tissue.","The present invention provides a method for using the system of the present invention for detecting the presence of objects, such as cancerous tumors, within tissues by detecting reflected signals from a tissue and discriminating the information related to the object from the information contained in the backscattered light created by the tissue itself.","The method provides a microwave subcarrier signal, and provides a source of light that is transmitted toward the tissue and is scattered from the tissue and includes an optical signal serving as a reference light signal. The source of light is modulated with the microwave subcarrier signal.","The method detects the modulated reference light signal and the scattered modulated light signals all of which produce electrical signals thereof. The produced electrical signals are measured, preferably by a network analyzer that detects the phase and amplitude difference between the reflected scattered light signal and the modulated reference light signal so as to determine the presence of a cancerous tumor within the tissue being examined. The method of the present invention may be further described with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1(C)","FIG. 2","FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["58","58","62","16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1(C)","FIG. 2"],"b":["20","16","18","22","24","26","14","54","56"]},"The basic approach of the hybrid lidar-radar detection scheme of system  used in the practice of the present invention is to make use of the way in which each component (, , and ) of the composite signal  is affected by the scattering of the modulated optical signal  shown in . Since the diffuse light  arises from reflections from a volume of randomly distributed scatterers, the modulation is essentially washed out in this signal component, which is indicated by reference number  in the received section of . The snake light  that undergoes scattering in small angles and decreases the resolution or sharpness of the image is also de-correlated relative to nonscattered ballistic light . Therefore, by tuning the microwave receiver, such as a network analyzer , to the modulation frequency, the diffuse  and snake  signals are reduced relative to the ballistic signals. The success of this approach relies on selecting the proper modulation frequency (or frequencies) to minimize the scattered \u201cnoise\u201d signal and maximize the image contrast.","Lidar systems are known and have been developed for a variety of detection purposes, e.g., detection of underwater targets from an airborne platform. The typical lidar system is much like the early radar systems. A short pulse of optical radiation is transmitted, and a receiver measures the reflected return optical power as a function of time. The present invention relates to detection or objects and, more particularly, to techniques in which lidar and radar technologies are combined to improve the resolution and sensitivity for the detection of cancerous tumors within tissues and may be further described with reference to .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["64","66","68","70","72"]},"The source of microwave energy  provides a reference signal, which is created by the network analyzer . The frequency of the microwave energy  selects the modulation frequency used in the measurements.","The source of continuous wave light  is comprised of first and second lasers  and , each having an output with the output of the first laser  being intercepted by a reflector  which, in turn, reflects the output signal thereof to a 50\/50 optical splitter  which also receives the output of the second laser . Each of the first and second lasers has an operating frequency of about 1064nm and provides coherent light having a power level of about 700mW. The lasers  and  may be temperature tuned so that the optical frequency difference between the two lasers  and  range from 0.01 to 60GHz.","The source of continuous wave light  further comprises a detector , a mixer , and a laser offset locking assembly . The laser offset locking assembly  provides an output signal that coerces the output of first and second lasers  and .","In operation, and with reference to , the technique associated with the present invention for providing the desired modulated optical signal is based on the mixing of two tunable, single frequency Nd:YAG lasers  and . The lasers  and  have an optical frequency difference in the range from 0.01\u201360 GHz. This optical frequency difference generates the desired modulation frequency fm when the two optical signals from lasers  and  are combined in an optical detector comprises of the 50\/50 optical splitter  and the detector . The desired modulated frequency fis shown with reference to detector  as f\u03c9\u2013\u03c9.The benefits of the optical heterodyne technique provided by this technique include full 100% modulation depth capability, good linearity, and relatively high optical power.","The hybrid lidar-radar system  of  comprises the two (2) 700mW, 1064nm lasers  and  having an output from the 50\/50 optical splitter  that is directed to the tissue  under test, while the other output of the 50\/50 splitter  is detected by detector  and part of this detected signal is mixed by mixer  with a microwave signal  to produce the intermediate frequency f. This intermediate frequency fis used by the offset locking accessory  to lock the two lasers together to the desired offset frequency which corresponds to the desired modulation frequency f=f+f.","Another detector  detects the modulated optical signal emanating from the tissue  under test. This detected signal (denoted \u201csignal\u201d in ) is then fed to the input of the network analyzer . The other part of the signal detected by detector  (denoted \u201creference\u201d in ) is fed into another input of the network analyzer . The network analyzer  then measures the amplitude and phase differences between the reference and signal inputs for determination of the presence of a tumor . Since the tumor  scatters light to a lesser degree than normal, healthy tissue, the light scattered by the tumor  will have a smaller phase shift and larger modulation depth (larger amplitude at the network analyzer) than the light scattered by the normal, healthy tissue. Therefore, when the transmitted light beam and detector  are scanned over the surface of the tissue  under investigation, the presence of a tumor  (or other inhomogeneity) is indicated by an increase in amplitude and a reduction in phase relative to the background comprised of normal, healthy tissue.","It should now be appreciated that the practice of the present invention by providing a higher modulation frequency in the range of 1\u201340 GHz results in an improved accuracy in detecting tumors in tissue due to the increased phase sensitivity provided by these higher frequencies (as compared to the frequency domain method in ). While the present invention has phase sensitivity that is reduced relative to the coherence domain method of , the use of a lower frequency subcarrier offers the benefit for deeper penetration into the tissue under examination. This is due to the fact that the approach depicted in  relies on maintaining optical coherence for detection, which limits the approach to depths of 1\u20132 mm. The approach depicted in  relies on maintaining coherence of the modulation signal, which is a factor of 1,000 to 100,000 times larger in wavelength than the optical signal. This results in a higher depth penetration of several centimeters. Further, when compared to the time domain method of , the present invention performs similar rejection of multiply scattered light with a much narrower receiver bandwidth. For example, the bandwidth associated with  and needed to recover a 1 picosecond pulse is on the order of 1000 GHz, whereas for a continuous wave modulated signal, the receiver bandwidth can be less than 0.001 GHz. This results in reduced noise and improved sensitivity by the practice of the present invention.","Further embodiments of the present invention may be further described with reference to . As shown in , an alternate embodiment of the present invention may be obtained by placing a detector A at the opposite end of the tissue sample . In addition, single mode transmitters at other optical frequencies, such as 780\u2013850 nm for oximetry measurements (known in the art), may be used with this technique. Furthermore, it is contemplated that the practice of the present invention includes modulation frequencies above 40 GHz.","Obviously, many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the foregoing teaching. It is, therefore, to be understood that within the scope of the appending claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A better understanding of the present invention may be realized when considered in view of the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIGS. 1(A)","FIG. 1(A)","FIG. 1(B)","FIG. 1(C)"],"b":["1","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
