---
title: Method and apparatus for electrical cable testing by pulse-arrested spark discharge
abstract: A method for electrical cable testing by Pulse-Arrested Spark Discharge (PASD) uses the cable response to a short-duration high-voltage incident pulse to determine the location of an electrical breakdown that occurs at a defect site in the cable. The apparatus for cable testing by PASD includes a pulser for generating the short-duration high-voltage incident pulse, at least one diagnostic sensor to detect the incident pulse and the breakdown-induced reflected and/or transmitted pulses propagating from the electrical breakdown at the defect site, and a transient recorder to record the cable response. The method and apparatus are particularly useful to determine the location of defect sites in critical but inaccessible electrical cabling systems in aging aircraft, ships, nuclear power plants, and industrial complexes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06853196&OS=06853196&RS=06853196
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 06853196
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020412
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","EXAMPLES"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE-AC04-94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to the field of electrical cable testing and, more particularly, to the detection of a defect site in a cable by forced electrical breakdown of the defect site using a short-duration, high-voltage incident pulse and time-of-arrival measurement of the resulting breakdown signals.","Critical electrical cable and wiring systems in aging aircraft, ships, nuclear power plants, and industrial complexes are a growing concern due to risk of failure from prolonged environmental stresses, such as thermal and mechanical cycling, and electrical stress. Such applications have mission or safety critical cable infrastructures that must function without fault during normal operations and possibly during an abnormal event.","Examples of safety critical electrical cabling in commercial and military aircraft are the flight control systems. During operations, aircraft environments include vibration and thermal variations, which can result in an accumulation of damage to a cable. It is critical that the damaged cable be identified and replaced or repaired. If the defect is left undetected, the environmental degradation will continue, and the accumulated damage could eventually result in a critical fault if not corrected.","An example of environment stress in the nuclear power industry is thermal embrittlement that can result in cracking of insulation in control cables. The damaged cable may never fail under normal operation. However, during an earthquake the shifting of cables in a tray and breaking away of the embrittled insulation could result in an immediate failure. Depending on the critical nature of the cable, it may not be necessary to immediately replace the damaged cable. With the low probability of a failure scenario, cable replacement could occur during normal maintenance operation. If facility operators knew the condition of the cables and the location of the defects, they could make informed decisions on repair methodologies.","In general, these critical electrical cable systems are inaccessible over their length, providing very limited visual or physical inspection of the system. Nondestructive and nonintrusive condition monitoring (CM) techniques are needed to locate insulation degradation and defects in such inaccessible cable systems.","Despite the compelling need for CM tools to evaluate the reliability of critical cable systems, validated CM technologies have not been developed because of the complexity of the problem. A variety of commercial and exploratory tools are available that provide information on bulk cable properties, but no validated CM technique is available for locating insulation degradations in complex cable systems. One technique that has been proposed is partial discharge. The partial discharge technique, however, has not been demonstrated to function outside of highly controlled laboratory environments. Other CM techniques that have been proposed, and in some cases implemented, use continuous application of high voltage and immersion of the wiring or cable system in water or ionizing gas to enhance the possibility of electrical breakdown at defect sites. However, these techniques have limited applicability because of the requirement for water or gas immersion. Nor have these techniques been demonstrated to be non-damaging to the cables under test.","The present invention, hereinafter referred to as Pulsed-Arrested Spark Discharge (PASD), is potentially capable of in-situ, nondestructive detection and location of insulation defects in complex cable systems. The PASD method has possible utility in any operation that has electrical cable systems that must be evaluated to determine the presence of defects or degradations.","The present invention is directed to a method and apparatus for electrical cable testing by PASD. Pulse arrested refers to the application of a short-duration, high-voltage pulse to a cable that results in an electrical breakdown (spark discharge) as a defect site. The method for determining the location of a defect site in a cable comprises injecting into the drive end of the cable a short-duration incident pulse having sufficient voltage to cause an electrical breakdown at the defect site. The electrical breakdown, in turn, generates pulses which propagate away from the defect site in both directions along the cable. The pulse that propagates back from the defect site toward the drive end of the cable is referred to as the breakdown-induced reflected pulse. The pulse that propagates from the defect site to the terminal end of the cable is referred to as the breakdown-induced transmitted pulse.","To determine the location of the defect site, at least one diagnostic sensor can detect the incident pulse at the drive end of the cable, which provides a time reference. The pulses generated by the electrical breakdown at the defect site can be detected by the diagnostic sensor(s). The location of the defect site can be determined from the difference in arrival times between the incident pulse and the breakdown-induced reflected and\/or transmitted pulses and the propagation velocity of the pulses in the cable.","The incident pulse comprises a short-duration high-voltage pulse having a risetime that can be as long as 10 nanoseconds, but preferably less than 1 nanosecond. The pulsewidth of the incident pulse can be 500 nanoseconds, but preferably less than 10 nanoseconds. The fact that the incident pulse is relatively narrow implies that the total energy delivered to the defect site will be small, even though the applied voltage can be high.","Techniques to either enhance or inhibit the onset of electrical breakdown can be used with the basic PASD method to assist in determining the location of the defect site. These techniques include: 1) the use of an external ionization source to lower the breakdown voltage at the defect site; 2) the application of multiple incident pulses to preionize the defect site and reduce the required voltage, wherein the pulses can be of the same or opposite polarity; 3) the application of multiple incident pulses to force multiple breakdowns at the defect site, enabling the use of repetitive data extraction techniques; 4) the application of multiple incident pulse injection from both ends of the cable to reduce voltage in the cable and at the injection points, yet provide voltage doubling at the defect location; 5) the use of localized magnetic fields to suppress breakdown at specified locations along the cable and improve defect location precision; and 6) the use of pressure changes and liquid or gas immersion to change the breakdown threshold.","The apparatus for determining the location of a defect in an electrical cable comprises a pulser for injecting a short-duration incident pulse into the drive end of the cable having sufficient voltage to cause an electrical breakdown at the defect site and thereby generating a breakdown-induced reflected pulse in the cable; at least one diagnostic sensor at the drive end of the cable for detecting the incident pulse and the breakdown-induced reflected pulse; and a transient recorder connected to the at least one diagnostic sensor to record the detected incident pulse and the detected breakdown-induced reflected pulse. The pulser can be a charge-line pulser or other short-pulse high-voltage pulser.","For the purpose of this disclosure, the electrical breakdown at the defect site resulting from the application of the high-voltage incident pulse can include the initial stages of the formation of the breakdown channel when the impedance is changing as well as the formation of a low-impedance path resulting from a fully formed spark channel. During all stages of the breakdown process, observable electrical, chemical, and acoustic events can be detected and analyzed to determine the location of the defect site. Therefore, the diagnostic sensor(s) can be both direct and indirect contact sensors, including voltage and current probes, current viewing transformers, magnetic field derivative or electric field derivative sensors, radio frequency (RF) sensors, acoustic sensors, and chemical sensors. Depending on the data to be gathered, these sensors can be placed at either or both ends of the cable or along the length of the cable.","The method of cable testing by PASD relies on the development of a controlled electrical breakdown (spark) at a defect site of the cable, resulting from the injection of a short-duration high-voltage incident pulse into the cable. The electrical breakdown generates transient pulses that propagate in both directions of the cable from the site of the breakdown. These breakdown-induced pulses can be observed at either end of the cable with diagnostic sensors. The defect site location can be determined from the time delay between the incident and breakdown-induced pulses and the propagation characteristics of the cable using a time-of-arrival calculation.","In  is shown a schematic illustration of the PASD apparatus for locating a defect site  in a cable . In practice, wiring generally refers to a discrete single conductor wire with an AWG or 12 or smaller. Cabling generally refers to multi-conductor cable or a single conductor cable of 10 AWG or larger. For the purpose of this disclosure, wiring and cabling are used interchangeably and the term \u201ccable\u201d can refer to either a wire or a cable. A simple cable  can comprise a single wire conductor  surrounded by an insulator . A pulser  provides the short-duration high-voltage incident pulse  for injection into the drive end of the cable . The other, terminal end of the cable  can have a terminating load (not shown) or can be unterminated. One or more drive-end diagnostic sensors  and\/or terminal end diagnostic sensors (not shown) can detect the incident pulse  and breakdown-induced reflected pulse  and breakdown-induced transmitted pulse . The diagnostic sensor(s)  can be connected to a transient recorder (not shown) to record the waveform of the cable response to the incident pulse .","According to the method of the present invention, a baseline waveform signature characteristic of the cable response without electrical breakdown can be obtained by applying an incident pulse  to the cable  at a voltage below the expected breakdown threshold. The baseline waveform signature can be recorded and stored by the transient recorder. The applied voltage of the incident pulse  can then be successively increased, using a step-stress approach, until an electrical breakdown (spark channel formation) between the wire conductor  and a return current path  occurs at the defect site . The return current path  can be, for example, a nearby metallic structure, the cable metallic sheath, or a nearby wire. The formation of the spark channel produces a rapid change of the cable impedance at breakdown, causing the breakdown-induced reflected pulse  to propagate toward the drive end and the breakdown-induced transmitted pulse  to propagate toward the terminal end of the cable  from the defect site . The breakdown-induced reflected pulse  can be observed at the drive end of the cable  by the diagnostic sensor(s) . Alternatively, the breakdown-induced transmitted pulse  can be detected by another diagnostic sensor(s) (not shown) at the terminal end of the cable .","The location of the defect site  can be determined from the time delay of the breakdown-induced reflected pulse  from the incident pulse  and propagation velocity of the pulses in the cable  using a time-of-arrival technique. The distance to the defect site  from the drive end of the cable  is given by\n\n\u0394()\/2 \n\nwhere tis the time of arrival of the incident pulse  at the diagnostic sensor , tis the time of arrival of the breakdown-induced reflected pulse  at the diagnostic sensor , and v is the propagation velocity of the pulses. The propagation velocity can be determined by measuring the transit time for a pulse to travel in a similar undamaged cable of known length or other standard cable techniques.\n","Alternatively, the propagation velocity for a lossless cable can be estimated from\n\n\/(\u03bc\u03b5)\n\nwhere c is the speed of light in vacuum, \u03bc is the permeability of free space, and \u03b5 is the dielectric constant for the cable material (all values in MKS units). If a terminal end diagnostic sensor is used to detect the breakdown-induced transmitted pulse , the location of the defect site  from the terminal end of the cable can also be determined.\n","Variations in the time at which the defect site breaks down can cause errors in determining the defect site location. This is because the formation of the breakdown requires a finite time that is dependent on the relative level of over-voltage at the defect site . This delay is generally less than a few nanoseconds and is statistical in nature. The delay can be determined through arrival time measurements at the terminal end of the cable and statistically quantified. After a level is reached for which a breakdown is achieved, a known over-voltage level is used to reduce the time lag. Using the known statistics for time lag as a function of over-voltage, the test over-voltage can be selected to reduce the uncertainty in defect location.","Variation in time can also be attributed to how the selection of the propagation velocity parameter is applied. In cables where the return structure is in direct contact with the insulation associated with the cable under test, the propagation velocity is very consistent. Examples include coaxial cables and multi-conductor cables with only a few conductors and a single shield. In other cable geometries where the return conductor is separated from the test cable by other wires and air gaps, the overall propagation velocity may be nonuniform. Thus, calculation of the defect site location using a uniform propagation velocity can result in an error. Resolution of this error involves the use of existing techniques from inverse scattering. A low amplitude reflection and\/or transmission measurement is made, where the cable responds linearly to the applied pulse. The dielectric profile of the cable is then reconstructed from these measurements. The resulting velocity profile can then be used to reduce uncertainty in the defect site location determination.","Controlled injection of the short-duration high-voltage incident pulse  is a key to the utility of the PASD method. Limiting the incident pulse width from a few nanoseconds to a few hundred nanoseconds controls the pulse energy. The pulse voltage can range from a few kV to tens of kV. As a result of the narrow pulsewidth, the energy dissipated in the electrical breakdown can be only a few millijoules, greatly limiting any further damage to the cable  at the defect site  caused by the cable testing. Minimizing the incident pulsewidth limits not only the energy associated with the incident pulse  but also the duration over which sufficient voltage is available to maintain electrical breakdown at the defect site . Longer pulsewidths will transfer higher amounts of energy and greatly increase the potential for insulator damage at the defect site .","The pulser  should preferably provide a very fast risetime, high-voltage incident pulse  to the test cable . For example, the pulser  can be a charge-line pulser, a lumped-element pulser, or an amplifier driven by a low-level voltage pulse source. The risetime of the incident pulse  is preferably less than 10 ns and more preferably less than 1 ns. For example, the pulser  can comprise a charged, high-voltage capacitor pulse-forming line (or transmission line) that can be rapidly discharged into the test cable  by a fast, low-inductance high-voltage switch. Such a charge-line pulser can provide a fast-rise rectangular incident pulse  and is reliable and inexpensive to fabricate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00040","num":"00040"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["13","14","10","14","22","22","22","23","22","24","24","24","10","25","24","13","26"]},"The maximum voltage of the incident pulse  can be estimated based on the maximum anticipated electrical breakdown path for the cable  under test. The threshold voltage at which the electrical breakdown occurs and the rapidity of the breakdown is related to the separation distance between the drive wire conductor  and the return current path , and the risetime of the applied incident pulse . The applied pulse voltage required to initiate the electrical breakdown can be minimized by a return current path  that is in close proximity to the wire conductor . Additionally, locating the defect site  with relatively high precision is aided by the rapid formation of the electrical breakdown. Rapid breakdown produces fast risetime reflected and transmitted pulses , that are more easily detected by the diagnostic sensor .","Typically, the transmission line impedance of the various cables to be tested can vary over a significant range. Therefore, the impedance of the pulser  is preferably matched to the test cable . Impedance matching provides an efficient pulse injection, minimizing pulser to cable interface effects and simplifying waveform interpretation.","The incident pulse  can be generated by charging of the coaxial charge-line , after which the high-voltage switch  connects the energy stored in the charge-line  to the output coax cable . The incident pulse  can be injected into the test cable  either directly or indirectly. With direct injection, the cable  is physically connected to the pulser . Direct injection is probably applicable to the greatest variety of test conditions and is most efficient at coupling in pulses  of sufficiently high voltage. Alternatively, the incident pulse  can be injected indirectly by inductive or capacitive methods (not shown).","The coax cable  can have at least one drive-end diagnostic sensor  to monitor the incident pulse  that is injected into the test cable . The diagnostic sensor  can be of the direct or indirect contact type. Direct contact sensors, such as voltage probes, make a physical connection to the cable conductor . Examples of indirect contact sensors are current viewing transformers, magnetic field derivative sensors (B-dot type), and electric derivative field sensors (D-dot type). The indirect contact sensors can be placed in close proximity to or around the cable  being evaluated. Indirect sensors also have the advantage of being able to be moved along the length of the cable.","Diagnostic sensors at either or both ends of the cable  provide useful waveforms from which the defect site location can be estimated. The sensor waveforms can be recorded and stored by a transient recorder , such as a Tektronix 684A-digitizing oscilloscope, that is operatively connected to the diagnostic sensor(s) . In general, sensors are required at the drive end of the cable. Additional sensors (not shown) placed at the terminal end of the cable and\/or along the cable provide additional information, which can be used to isolate the defect site location. Multiple sensors can also improve monitoring of signals in electrically noisy environments.","The charge-line pulser  shown in  was used to test representative end-of-life-cycle commercial and military aircraft cable assemblies using the PASD method described above. Table 1 describes the cables that were tested. Cable types tested included coaxial, twisted pair, and four-conductor cable with various types of damage developed during the life cycle of these aircraft cables.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-d0e1730","num":"00002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Cable description"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"56pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Cable Type","Manufacturer","Specifications","Defect"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["RG-174\/U","Brand-Rex","50-ohm coax","360\u00b0 Break in shield"]},{"entry":["RG-214\/U","Delco","50-ohm coax","Abrasion"]},{"entry":["P\/N 2473","Alpha","62-ohm","Abrasion"]},{"entry":[{},{},"twisted pair"]},{"entry":["P\/N 1772","Alpha","44-ohm four","Abrasion"]},{"entry":[{},{},"conductor"]},{"entry":["RG-214\/U","Delco","50-ohm coax","1.2 mm pin in shield"]},{"entry":["RG-214\/U","Delco","50-ohm coax","1 mm hole without pin"]},{"entry":["P\/N M3232","Manhattan CD","Nonuniform","Abrasion"]},{"entry":[{},{},"twisted pair"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Table 2 summarizes the damaged cable detection thresholds for the cables tested. The detection threshold is the incident pulse voltage at which a breakdown-induced reflected pulse having a detectable waveform damage signature is first observed. Detection thresholds were typically below 10 kV for a 5 ns wide rectangular incident pulse.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-d0e2023","num":"00002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 2"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Damaged cable detection thresholds"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Cable Type","Detection Threshold for",{}]},{"entry":["and Damage","5-ns FWHM Pulse (kV)","Insulator Dielectric"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"77pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["RG-174\/U","0.095","Solid"]},{"entry":["Break in shield",{},"polyethylene"]},{"entry":["RG-214\/U","12.4","Solid"]},{"entry":["Abraded shield",{},"polyethylene"]},{"entry":["Alpha 2473 (TP)","9.59","High-density"]},{"entry":["Abraded Insulation",{},"polyethylene"]},{"entry":["Alpha 1772 (FC)","8.91","High-density"]},{"entry":["Abraded Insulation",{},"polyethylene"]},{"entry":["RG-214 pin-in shield","6.9","Solid"]},{"entry":[{},{},"polyethylene"]},{"entry":["RG-214 pin hole","9.8","Solid"]},{"entry":[{},{},"polyethylene"]},{"entry":["Nonuniform","4.5","TBD"]},{"entry":"impedance (TP)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Table 3 summarizes the defect site location accuracy for the cables tested. The cables were chosen to be 20 to 30 feet in length, since this is representative of typical cables on aircraft. Calculating the location of a defect site by the time-of-arrival technique requires the equivalent insulation dielectric constant \u03b5 to determine the propagation velocity. The manufacturer specified values of \u03b5=2.25 to 2.5 for the cables tested were independently verified by measuring the transit time of a pulse in a similar undamaged cable of known length. The defect site location accuracy was determined by comparing the actual physical location of the defect site, measured from the drive end, to the PASD-estimated defect site location. The estimated location of the site defect, as determined by the PASD method, typically agreed to within twelve inches of the actual location.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-d0e2357","num":"00002"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 3"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Cable defect site location accuracy"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},{},{},"PASD-",{}]},{"entry":[{},{},"Measured","Estimated","Percent"]},{"entry":["Cable Type","Cable","Defect","Defect","Agree-"]},{"entry":["and Damage","Length (ft)","Location (ft)","Location (ft)","ment"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"5"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"28pt","align":"char","char":"."}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["RG-174","24","19.2","19.8","3.1"]},{"entry":"Break in shield"},{"entry":["RG-214 abraded","25.8","10.5","11.7","11.4"]},{"entry":"shield & insulation"},{"entry":["Alpha 2473 (TP)","30.3","24.2","25.6","5.8"]},{"entry":"insulation damage"},{"entry":["Alpha 1772 (FC)","30.3","20","22.3","11.5"]},{"entry":"insulation damage"},{"entry":["RG-214 pin-in-shield","30.3","8.4","9.3","10.7"]},{"entry":["RG-214 pinhole","30.3","22.2","23.8","7.2"]},{"entry":["Nonuniform","15.6","12","11.7","2.5"]},{"entry":"impedance (TP)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00049","num":"00049"},"figref":"FIGS. 3-9","b":["10","25","13","10","14","15","10","27"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00050","num":"00050"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B","FIG. 3B"],"b":["3","3"],"sup":"8 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00051","num":"00051"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00052","num":"00052"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00053","num":"00053"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00054","num":"00054"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00055","num":"00055"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00056","num":"00056"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"]},"For cables other than coax, impedance nonuniformity will result in a complex wave signature due to multiple reflections inherent with the cable structure. However, if the system is linear, the cable response at voltages below where breakdown occurs at a defect site should not change as a function of voltage. When the voltage of the incident pulse is increased to the point that a breakdown occurs at the defect site, a change in the cable response can be identified as a possible damage signature. As shown in , this waveform change occurred at about 43 ns with a 4.5 kV incident pulse, from which the defect site location was estimated to be at 11.7 feet from the drive end of the nonuniform impedance twisted pair cable.","Modifications to the Basic PASD Method","These results indicate that the basic PASD method can be used to determine the location of a variety of defects in different types of cables. Modifications of the basic PASD method described above include the use of an external ionization radiation source, magnetic fields, pressure, surrounding media, and\/or multiple pulses. These modifications\u2014individually or together\u2014can cause a change in the voltage necessary to initiate the breakdown process and reduce the effects of unrelated electrical noise. The intent of these modifications is to reduce the energy dissipated at the defect site  and improve the detectability and location accuracy of the defect site .","External ionization can be provided by, for example, ultraviolet light to X-radiation sources. The higher energy sources (e.g., X-rays) enable the radiation to penetrate thin panels or conduits, potentially making it applicable to aircraft, enclosed conduit systems, or other applications where the cable is largely inaccessible. The ionizing radiation source can create free electrons or ions in the gas surrounding the defect site . These free charges enable the electrical discharge at the defect site  to initiate at a lower voltage by creating a pre-ionized conducting channel between the wire conductor  and the current return path . The availability of free charges also reduces the delay and risetime of the electrical breakdown, providing improved resolution of the defect site location.","A directed beam of ionizing radiation may be preferred when irradiation of the entire cable system to be tested is impractical. The directed-beam radiation source can be scanned along the cable run, providing additional diagnostic information regarding defect site location. For example, the damage signature using the basic PASD method may be too weak or ambiguous to provide a definitive determination of the defect site location. Scanning the radiation source along the cable path can provide a strong damage signature change when the radiation source passes over the defect site . In general, a repetitive lower (pre-breakdown) pulser can be used to detect the defect site  with external ionization.","Multiple pulses can also be used to lower the threshold voltage and generate additional diagnostic information. The multiple-pulse method can use at least one pre-pulse to create electrons and ions at the defect site  through the corona process. The pre-pulse induces pre-ionization of the gas at the defect site , similar to the external radiation source. After the pre-pulse has ionized the region surrounding the defect site , the breakdown incident pulse  arrives at the defect site  and drives the defect into electrical breakdown. However, the breakdown incident pulse  must occur arrive at the defect site  the pre-pulse ionization dissipates due to the recombination of electrons and ions. The pre-pulse can be of lower voltage than the incident pulse  and can have a lower rise-time and duration. The pre-pulse may also be either positive or negative polarity with adjustable dwell between the pre-pulse and the breakdown incident pulse . Like the external ionization method, the pre-pulse method can reduce further damage at the defect site  and decrease the risetime of the breakdown, thereby improving the accuracy of the defect site location.","Multiple pulses can also be injected from both ends of the cable. In this case, the pulse injection would be timed such that the pulses arrive simultaneously at the defect site . When the pulses both reach the defect site  there will be a voltage doubling effect as the two waveforms pass. Where a single pulse would not have sufficient voltage to result in a breakdown, the combined pulses can result in a breakdown. Due to the narrow pulse widths used, this multi-pulse method is intended to reduce the voltage to which the entire cable is exposed. The higher breakdown voltage is localized to the defect site . This multi-pulse method may be especially practical where pulse injection breakdown at the injection point is a problem when only one end of the cable is driven with a single high-voltage incident pulse .","If multiple incident pulses are injected at the same or differing voltages (with respect to each incident pulse), signal-extraction techniques can be used to identify very low-level repetitive breakdown events. Location information can thereby be extracted from waveforms what would otherwise be undetectable with the basic PASD method. Prior to the development of a spark, a corona may also discharge from the damage site. The multiple pulse method with signal-extraction techniques can be used to detect defect sites  during the corona phase, before the cable is driven to the point of full electrical breakdown, thereby limiting collateral damage.","The use of local external magnetic fields can be used to increase the breakdown voltage, thereby helping to locate defect sites  in complex systems. The magnetic fields can be provides by electro- or permanent magnets. The required induction levels can be on the order of one Tesla.","Additionally, gases and\/or liquids can be introduced into the system to lower the breakdown voltage associated with a defect site . In general, such a modification requires a geometry wherein the gas or liquid can be easily contained. Furthermore, the gas or liquid should be chosen to not result in other degradations such as corrosion or the introduction of an overall safety hazard.","Other types of diagnostics are capable of identifying and locating the defect site  when electrical discharge occurs or before the onset of breakdown, foe example when corona emission is occurring. Additional techniques to detect the breakdown or pre-breakdown include radio frequency (RF) signature detection and analysis, chemical sensing, and acoustic detection. Electrical breakdown and corona discharge generates an RF signal that radiates away from the defect site . In addition, chemical compounds, such as ozone, and an acoustic signal can also be generated at the defect site  by the electrical breakdown. The chemical compounds and acoustic signal can be detected with appropriate sensors, either fixed or moveable, to provide additional information about the defect site location.","The embodiments of the present invention have been described as an apparatus and method for cable testing by Pulsed-Arrested Spark Discharge. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention, the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form part of the specification, illustrate the present invention and, together with the description, describe the invention. In the drawings, like elements are referred to by like numbers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3A","FIG. 3B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4A","FIG. 4B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8A","FIG. 8B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
