---
title: Method and apparatus for diamond wire cutting of metal structures
abstract: A method and apparatus for diamond wire cutting of metal structures, such as nuclear reactor vessels, is provided. A diamond wire saw having a plurality of diamond beads with beveled or chamfered edges is provided for sawing into the walls of the metal structure. The diamond wire is guided by a plurality of support structures allowing for a multitude of different cuts. The diamond wire is cleaned and cooled by COduring the cutting process to prevent breakage of the wire and provide efficient cutting. Concrete can be provided within the metal structure to enhance cutting efficiency and reduce airborne contaminants. The invention can be remotely controlled to reduce exposure of workers to radioactivity and other hazards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06881131&OS=06881131&RS=06881131
owner: The Trustees of Princeton University
number: 06881131
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020503
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/288,519 filed May 3, 2001, the entire disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.","This invention was made with government support under U.S. Department of Energy Contract No. DE-AC02-76CH03073. The government has certain rights in this invention.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to the cutting and\/or sawing of metal structures. More specifically, the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for diamond wire cutting of complex metal structures, such as nuclear reactor vessels.","2. Related Art","Many complex metal structures, such as nuclear reactor vessels and equipment associated therewith, are required to be quickly and efficiently dismantled during decontamination and  decommissioning projects. The dismantling process requires the cutting of large and complex metal components, which are often radioactive, prior to removal from a site. For example, the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor (\u201cTFTR\u201d), which ceased operation in April of 1997 and was decommissioned in October of 1999, contained radioactive vacuum vessel portions that were contaminated by prior deuterium-tritium experiments and were required to be removed without exposing workers to hazardous levels of radioactivity. Accordingly, the radiological hazards associated with decommissioning, in addition to the large sizes of such vessels (i.e., 80 cubic meters), present significant challenges.","Methods for dismantling such complex metal structures have been attempted in the past, but none have achieved acceptable results. For example, plasma-arc cutting methods are currently employed in decommissioning projects to cut through metals having thicknesses in excess of 0.5 inches, but require workers to enter the reactor in order to effectuate the cuts and remove equipment. This exposes the workers to potentially unacceptable levels of radioactivity. Further, the workers must be fitted with air-supplied bubble suits prior to entering the vessel. Additionally, airborne radioactive contaminants and harmful gases can be released when the metal structures are cut by the plasma-arc torch, requiring expensive containment, filtration, and respiratory systems to abate such dangers.","Diamond wire cutting methods have been employed for more than 25 years in marble and granite mining operations. Diamond-impregnated beads are affixed to a continuous strand of spring or rubber-encapsulated steel wire that is looped onto a drive pulley and driven at a high speed to cut through stone. This method has proven to be an extremely efficient system for  nondestructive stone extraction and mining operations, and has even been applied to cut concrete support structures and shielding at various nuclear power plant sites. A particular problem with diamond wire cutting of metal structures, however, lies in the inability to efficiently clean and cool the wire as it passes through the metal structure. Further, the wire can easily snag and break on complex metal structures, and can release radioactive components or other projectiles into the air during use.","Accordingly, what would be advantageous, but has not yet been provided, is a method and apparatus for diamond wire cutting of complex metal structures, such as nuclear reactor vessels, that addresses the aforementioned shortcomings. ","The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for diamond wire cutting of complex metal structures, such as nuclear reactor cores, vacuum vessels, and other equipment associated therewith. The invention comprises a diamond wire saw having beveled diamond beads that provide energy absorption and reduced breakage when the saw is passed through metal structures. An apparatus is provided for cooling and cleaning the saw during use. A guide apparatus may be provided for allowing a variety of cuts into complex metal structures.","The diamond wire is driven by a remotely positioned electric or hydraulic motor. The diamond wire saw of the present invention can be cooled and cleaned by a COblast cleaning and cooling apparatus. Liquid COis fed from a tank to a convergent-divergent nozzle, such as a Venturi nozzle, forming crystalline COparticles that are fired at high speed toward the diamond wire. Metal and other particles accumulated on the wire are cleaned therefrom, and the wire is cooled to provide enhanced cutting efficiency. Tension on the wire can be controlled by a torsion control and braking system.","Further, the present invention may use structures having pulleys attached thereto to allow both push and pull cuts to be made into complex metal structures. The pulleys can be attached to upward and downward support arms and can be moved along the arms to facilitate different cutting angles. The pulleys can be electrically driven along the racks and remotely controlled by a joystick controller. The support structure of the present invention can be free-standing, or affixed to structures about the metal structure to be cut. ","The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for diamond wire cutting of complex metal structures, such as nuclear reactor vessels. A diamond wire having beveled or chamfered diamond beads is used to effectuate the cut. The diamond wire is cooled and cleaned during use to allow the wire to cut metal and to prevent breakage of the wire. A variety of cuts, including push and pull cuts, can be effectuated by the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","12","16","18","12","10","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","105","10","20","22","24","26","30","10","100","20","22","100","10","10"]},"As shown in the drawing, the wire  travels along pulleys  to cut into wall  of structure . Wire  travels along the general direction indicated by arrow A, and into wall , generating a kerf B in wall . The wire  then exits the wall  in the direction indicated by arrow C. The wire  is moved by a remotely positioned driving mechanism.","Upon exiting the wall  (i.e., after cutting), wire  is cleaned and cooled. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a cleaning apparatus  comprises a COblast cleaning device that fires crystalline COparticles at wire  at high velocity, removing particles accumulated on the wire  as a result of cutting. Nozzle  of apparatus  can be a convergent-divergent nozzle that is fed from liquid COtank  via a dip-tube. Upon exiting the nozzle , the liquid COforms a crystalline solid by direct expansion cooling, forming flakes having high velocity that impact the wire  and clean it as it passes by nozzle . The COalso cools the wire , thereby increasing the lifespan of wire  and efficiency of the cutting process. ","In an alternate embodiment of the present invention, cleaning apparatus  comprises aspirating pre-formed COpellets into a Venturi nozzle of an air-blasting system. In such an arrangement, the wire  can be blast-cleaned and cooled as it exits the wall  of structure . It is to be understood that any cleaning and\/or blast-cleaning or cooling apparatus known in the art can be applied to clean and cool wire  without departing from the scope of the present invention. Further, other coolants, such as other cryogenic gases can be utilized to cool the wire  of the present invention, and other particulate matter such as sand, could be used to clean the wire. Indeed, the cooling and cleaning steps could be carried out separately with different processing materials. Additionally, the cleaning apparatus  can be provided anywhere along wire , which can be oriented at any desired position with relation to structure  to effectuate any desired cut.","As previously mentioned, reactor cores and other vessels frequently contain radioactive materials that can be dangerous to personnel involved in the decommissioning of such vessels. In order to prevent the release of airborne contaminants during the cutting process, the interior  of structure  can be filled with concrete. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the concrete comprises GEOCELL, a foamed, lightweight concrete manufactured by GEOCELL of Kenilworth, N.J. It is to be understood, however, that any concrete, preferably a low density concrete, can be used without departing from the scope of the present invention. The concrete traps radioactive components, such as tritium, and prevents off-gassing during the cutting process. The concrete cures by a hydration process that also chemically bonds tritium. Further, the concrete provides shielding from gamma radiation and eliminates the void within structure  to comply with burial requirements. Additionally, the concrete provides structural  stability for wall  of structure , so that closure of kerf B during the cutting process is avoided, thereby preventing snagging and\/or snapping of wire  caused by a closing kerf.","In addition to, or instead of, using concrete, a ventilation shroud or other emission control device could be used to help prevent emission of radioactive particles and other airborne contaminants during the cutting process. The shroud would extend from the reactor room and about the wire  and driving mechanism, to prevent emission of any particles, contaminants, or gases from wire  during operation of the present invention. The containment shroud could be fabricated in accordance with components known in the art, such as with PERMACON and UNISTRUT components. The shroud can be ventilated and connected to a dust collection system (i.e., 3000 ft\/minute high-efficiency vacuum) or a 2000 foot\/minute high-efficiency particulate (\u201cHEPA\u201d) ventilation system. Such setups require minimal worker entry into the cutting area, thereby providing an added degree of safety.","Importantly, the support structures , ,  and  of the present invention can be automated and\/or hydraulically controlled to accommodate a variety of desired cuts. Further, the support structures , ,  and  can be adjusted to provide a desired tension on wire , in order to prevent breakage of the wire and to ensure optimal cutting efficiency. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the wire  is operated at a speed of 16 to 20 miles per hour under a tension of 150 to 200 pounds. Other tensions and operating speeds are contemplated by the present invention, and may be substituted for various cutting conditions. Additionally, in the case of wire failure and\/or breakage, the wire  of the present invention can  be conveniently crimped outside of the containment area, thereby allowing quick repair and obviating the need to enter the structure .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIGS. 3 and 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["10","20","22","24","26","50","105","100","20","22","10","30","30","30","30","20","22","30","30"],"i":["a ","b ","a ","b ","a ","b "]},"To provide a push cut, pulleys and are positioned at the ends of arms  and , away from support structure . During the cutting procedure, wire  travels past structures  and , and up toward the top pulley . Then, the wire  travels downward along the direction indicated by arrow A toward wall  of structure , cutting same along the direction indicated by arrow B. The wire  then exits the wall  along the direction indicated by arrow C, toward bottom pulley of arm . The wire then returns past support structures  and  to drive mechanism . Of course, the cutting direction of wire  can be reversed, so that the wire  exits the wall  from the top, as opposed to the bottom, of the structure .","To cut a structure, it has been found that use of a combination of pull and push cuts provides the best results. The pulleys and are set preferably set above and below  midpoint positions of the structure . Support arms  and  may be mounted to any available structure, or may be freestanding. Indeed, the support arms could even be interconnected with the structure itself. The pulleys are preferably moveably attached to support arms  and  in a rack and pinion configuration. Movement of the pulleys and along the support arms  and  are preferably done by remote control using an electric motor with a joystick controller. After a first cut is made, the top pulley of arm  can be backed off to reduce the angle of the edge of the structure encountered by the wire. It has been found that moving the pulley to a position 75% radially inward of structure  maintains the angle encountered by the wire at less than 90 degrees. This allows the bottom of the second third of the structure to be cut. The top pulley is then extended up arm  and the bottom pulley backed off to cut the top of the second third. The final third is then preferably cut using push cutting.","Any combination of push and pull cuts can be utilized to cut a desired metal structure. For example, for cylindrical structures, the first \u00bd to \u2153 diameter of the structure can be cut using the pull technique. Then, the remaining \u2153 to \u00bd can be cut using the push technique. The cutting methodologies disclosed for the \u201cpull\u201d and \u201cpush\u201d cuts of the present invention are illustrative in nature, and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Conceivably, any desired orientation of wire  and support structures \u2013 can be provided for achieving any desired cut.","The driving mechanism , shown in , drivers the diamond wire  of the present invention. Driving mechanism  comprises a moveable trolley , which can be  positioned at any desired location remote from structure , and a motor  attached to a guide frame . The motor  can be any type of motor, such as an electric or hydraulic motor, that provides sufficient power to drive wire  via a drive wheel or other means. Guide frame  allows motor  to freely move in a horizontal direction, so that various desired tensions on wire  can be provided.","Optionally, driving mechanism  can include a number of additional components for providing added features. For example, a tachometer can be provided for measuring the angular velocity of the drive wheel of driving mechanism , and hydraulic power unit controls can be provided for changing the velocity thereof. A slip clutch can be provided and coupled with motor  to minimize and\/or prevent breakage and\/or coupling failure of wire , and can be set to release pressure at any desired threshold, such as at 300 foot-pounds of force. Further, a load cell or weight stack can be provided to adjust tension on wire  and optimize cutting performance. Additionally, an electromagnet can be incorporated into the weight stack to remove power to the motor  and\/or tension on wire  when a slip occurs. Further, an optical pyrometer may be provided for measuring the temperature of the diamond wire  during cutting. The output of such a device could then be used to control delivery of COor other cooling and cleaning agent from cleaning apparatus .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"The present invention was successfully applied during the decommissioning of the vacuum vessel of the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor. The vacuum vessel was filled with GEOCELL concrete, pumped in three successive events with at least 24 hours of cure time between lifts. A total of 100 cubic yards of concrete was added with an average density of 50 lbs\/ft. The automated pulley system of the present invention was then installed at selected locations for cutting, and particulate collection shrouds and associated apparatus were provided. The main containment and saw containment were installed, sealed, and joined. A cryogenic cooling system (CO) was positioned to cool and clean the diamond wire. An 11 mm diameter diamond wire was used to perform most of the cutting. A 10 mm wire was also utilized due to bead wear and kerf catching of the 11 mm wire.","A total of 10 cuts were performed on the reactor vessel, each of which lasted approximately 15 hours in duration. The pull cut method was utilized for the majority of cutting, while the push cut method was utilized to complete the cut and free the segments. A minimal number of entries into the containment were necessary to correct instances of wire failure. The entire Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor vessel was cut and removed in a period of approximately 6 months, utilizing the present invention. ","Having thus described the invention in detail, it is to be understood that the foregoing description is not intended to limit the spirit and scope thereof. What is desired to be protected by Letters Patent is set forth in the appended claims.      "],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other important objects and features of the invention will be apparent from the following Detailed Description of the Invention taken in connection with the accompanying drawings in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
