---
title: Method and apparatus for wireless remote telemetry using ad-hoc networks
abstract: A wireless remote telemetry system uses low-cost, low-power ad-hoc networks to provide flexible reading and control of remote devices. In an embodiment applicable to a utility service, consumption of electrical power among a population of customers is measured by a utility metering system having ad-hoc network communication capability. The remote metering unit transmits information over an ad-hoc network to one or more intermediate communication units or hops. The intermediate communication units or hops include a mobile unit, a mobile base unit, a subscriber home computer, and a home base unit. Each of these hops may co-exist in the same large-scale system. The intermediate communication units transfer the received information to a central controller through multi-hop ad-hoc networks or cellular networks, according to intelligent planning by the wireless infrastructure or the central unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06985087&OS=06985087&RS=06985087
owner: Qualcomm Inc.
number: 06985087
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020315
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["I. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to wireless communications. More particularly, the present invention is directed to a novel and improved methods and apparatuses for the wireless metering of remote measurement devices using ad-hoc networks.","II. Description of the Related Art","Many industries utilize remote metering devices to monitor, measure, or record critical data. For example, utility companies use utility meters located at the customer site to measure utility consumption. The de-regulation of utility companies, such as electric power, water, and natural gas companies, has prompted these utility companies to seek technological modernization of equipment and services as a means of reducing costs in order to compete with other potential utility service providers.","In a conventional utility metering system, each utility customer is billed according to utility usage over a predetermined period of time, such as one or two months. An electro-mechanical meter having a visual display such as a set of dials, or an \u201codometer\u201d type display measures the utility usage. A person, typically an employee of the utility company, periodically visits each utility meter in a service area to visually read the utility consumption as reported by the meter.","Several inefficiencies exist in conventional utility metering system. For example, the utility company must pay a person to travel to each meter to visually read it. This may require sending the meter reader into a dangerous area. It also takes a long time for a person to physically visit each meter. Additionally, most electro-mechanical meters may be opened and tampered with by a person wishing to reduce his utility bill. Since the meter is typically read only about once a month, the tampering may not be evident to the utility company. Another drawback to the conventional utility metering system is that local fault detection, such as the detection of a localized blackout or brownout condition, is not possible because the remote device is not measured or reported on a regular basis.","The problems facing the utility companies in this area are similar to problems facing companies in other industries that have a need to remotely monitor, measure or control a metering device or point-of-sale. For example, mail delivery companies, such as the U.S. Postal Service or the like, generally maintain a large number of mail drop-off points. Each day, these drop-off points must be checked to see if any mail has been deposited for delivery. Often times, especially in rural areas, there is no mail at the remote mailbox when the postal employee arrives to check it. The result is inefficient deployment of resources. Likewise, vending machine service providers send employees out to service remote vending machines according to a predetermined schedule, without knowing what the actual demand has been at the machine until the employee arrives. Clearly, there are many industries that face similar inefficiencies that arise from scheduled servicing of remote stations rather than event-driven demand-side management of these remote stations.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,748,104, issued May 5, 1998, entitled, \u201cWireless Remote Telemetry System,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention, and incorporated herein by reference, discloses a remote telemetry method and system. However, the wireless portion of the infrastructure needs high power remote unit and elaborate network planning.","There is, therefore, a need for a remote telemetry system that avoids the disadvantages of the prior art telemetry systems by providing wireless telemetry data information in a low-cost and efficient manner. There is also a need for a \u201cgateway\u201d for providing advanced consumer services at the remote location.","The present invention provides a novel and improved wireless and remote telemetry system that uses ad-hoc networks to provide frequent reading and control of remote telemetry devices. For example, in an embodiment applicable to utility service, consumption of electrical power among a population of customers such as residential homes and commercial buildings, may be measured by a utility metering system having ad-hoc communication capability. The utility metering system communicates with a mobile unit over an ad-hoc network. The mobile unit then communicates with a central controller over an ad-hoc network and\/or wireless communication systems.","The mobile unit receives information from the utility metering systems over an ad-hoc network, when the mobile unit comes to close proximity of a remote metering unit. The mobile unit may transmit the received information to the central controller regularly, on demand, at a low-traffic time period, or according to a predetermined schedule, which may be remotely set and adjusted by the wireless infrastructure or the central controller. The messages that the remote metering unit transmits to the central controller include utility consumption readings and fault status indications.","The system may provide various advanced services such as delivering rate information to the remote metering unit to shift demand during peak hours, remote notification of the building owner upon a fault condition in the utility service or metering system, and real-time control functions such as load balancing in order to minimize peak usage. The system also provides various techniques to manage the reporting load on the system during peak reporting times, such as during a widespread blackout. Furthermore, the remote metering unit may provide a gateway to advanced consumer services at the remote location. By providing wireless and automatic metering services, the utility company may decrease costs by avoiding labor-intensive sight-reading of meters.","The utility company may use the received data to monitor and adjust the load in response to surges and dips in demand. If these variations are detected early on, the supply may be adjusted or the demand shifted by pricing increases during peak usage times or direct control of remote appliances, thereby reducing the peak-to-average ratio. Information collected for individual customers may be processed in real-time to generate short and long-term usage forecasts. Simultaneous readings of multiple remote metering units throughout the distribution system provide location of service losses, thefts, leaks, and faulty or improperly measuring meters. Accurate feedback of usage behavior may be provided to customers in billing statements in order to more accurately target and control wasteful practices and satisfy conservation goals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"A plurality of remote metering units \u2013is respectively located at strategic points throughout the utility distribution network. For example, remote metering units \u2013may be located at residential homes and commercial buildings where the end-use of the utility service occurs. The mobile units may also be located at key distribution points such as substations and the like where larger-scale monitoring is desired. Remote metering units \u2013may be comprised of, for example, a basic transceiver coupled to a pre-existing conventional electro-mechanical utility meter by an interface device that is adapted to the type of meter (i.e. dial or odometer type). An advantage of this construction is that a small, low-cost, and easy to manufacture device may be readily adapted to be installed on pre-existing meters without costly system upgrading. Such a remote metering unit is described below with reference to .","In one embodiment, remote metering units \u2013each perform basic metering functions including reporting of utility service consumption, meter tampering detection and reporting, utility outage reporting, and detection and reporting of \u201csurges\u201d and \u201cdips\u201d in service levels. Remote metering units \u2013may transmit their reporting messages to central controller , through at least one base station  and a mobile telephone switching office (MTSO) , which may interface with the public switched telephone network (PSTN) . Central controller  may comprise, for example, a computer system and associated memory databases and interface circuitry that run application specific softwares for performing the control functions described herein. In various embodiments to be described below, various intermediate communication units or \u201chops\u201d may be interposed between remote metering units \u2013and central controller  in a \u201cmesh network\u201d style. The intermediate communication units include a subscriber mobile unit , a mobile base unit , a subscriber home computer , and a home base unit . Each of these various embodiments may co-exist in the same large-scale system.","In one embodiment, base station  and MTSO  belong to a Code-Division Multiple Access (CDMA) spread spectrum communication system. An example of such a system is given in U.S. Pat. No. 4,901,307, issued Feb. 13, 1990, entitled \u201cSPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention, and incorporated herein by reference. Additionally, the wireless communication system may be designed in accordance with Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA)\/Electronic Industries Association (EIA) Interim Standard 95 (IS-95) entitled \u201cMobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System,\u201d or the \u201cTIA\/EIA\/IS-2000 Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems,\u201d hereinafter referred to as \u201cthe cdma2000 standard.\u201d Alternatively, the wireless communication system may be designed in accordance with ANSI J-STD-008, entitled \u201cPersonal Station\u2014Base Station Compatibility Requirements for 1.8 to 2.0 GHz Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) Personal Communications Systems.\u201d However, it should be noted that the teachings of the present invention are applicable to other wireless communication systems whether cellular or non-cellular, and regardless of the modulation scheme employed. For example, the present invention is equally applicable to Time-Division Multiple Access (TDMA) based systems such as the U.S. TDMA standard IS-54, or the pan-European standard Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM). Additionally, the teachings of the present invention are applicable to analog frequency modulation communication systems, such as the Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS).","In one embodiment, remote metering units \u2013transmit their respective reporting messages to an intermediate communication unit over an ad-hoc network. The advantages of using ad-hoc networks include flexibility in infrastructure architecture, no wireline connection, and flexible network topology. The ad-hoc networks allow the intermediate communication units be mobile, which may be carried by people or in automobiles, and low power. The intermediate communication units may interrupt metering units \u2013for any data transfer, without the need for network planning. The ad-hoc networks may be based on Bluetooth, IEEE 802.11, or ultra-wide-band communication protocols, for example.","Bluetooth communication protocol provides a simple and short range, e.g., 10 m to 100 m, radio-based solution for robust data and voice transfer without cables or the need for line of sight. It provides many advantages such as low complexity, low power consumption, low cost, frequency hopping, and time division duplex implementations. Bluetooth devices that come within the range of each other may dynamically set up ad-hoc point-to-point and\/or point-to-multipoint wireless connections. This standard is suitable for battery-powered devices. Bluetooth communication protocol is well known in the art.","IEEE 802.11 communication protocol provides device-to-device connectivity on an ad-hoc basis in a wireless local area network (WLAN) environment. This wireless communication standard has higher data rates, longer range, e.g., up to 90, but higher power requirements. This standard is suitable for non-battery-powered devices. IEEE 802.11 communication protocol is well known in the art.","Ultra wide band communication protocol also provides device-to-device connectivity on an ad-hoc basis. It provides flexible, low cost implementation of direct communication for short distances, requiring no base station. This ad-hoc communication protocol is also well known in the art.","In one embodiment, mobile unit  may receive information from metering unit , and transfer the received information to the base station , according to a planned data delivery scheme. The mobile unit may receive information from the metering unit over an ad-hoc network when the mobile unit comes within the range of metering unit Persons or automobiles may advantageously carry the mobile unit. A person who is carrying the mobile unit may be walking, jogging, cycling, or delivering an item in the neighborhood of the metering unit . The automobile that is carrying the mobile unit may include delivery vehicles, passenger vehicles, buses, and\/or taxis. When such a mobile unit that is ad-hoc network-enabled comes within the range of an ad-hoc network-enabled metering device, the mobile unit may read and store information from the metering device. The mobile unit may then transfer the information to another wireless device or central controller autonomously or according to a planned data delivery scheme, which may be managed by the wireless infrastructure or the General Controller.","In one embodiment, mobile unit  may transfer the received information to base station  directly over a cellular communication network, such as a CDMA cellular network. The mobile unit may transfer the information at a low-traffic time period, periodically, or at the request of mobile station  or central controller .","In another embodiment, mobile unit  may transfer the received information to the central controller  over an ad-hoc network, or through multi-hop ad-hoc networks, when the mobile unit comes close to the central unit. Using multi-hop ad-hoc networks to transfer the information from the mobile unit  to the central controller  reduces transmission energy compared to single ad-hoc network.","In another embodiment, mobile unit  may transfer the received information to central controller  through binary runtime environment for wireless (BREW) protocol. BREW is an application platform that may be loaded on mobile unit  and central controller , for transferring information over the Internet. BREW protocol is well known in the art.","In another embodiment, mobile unit  may transfer the received information to base station  through an intermediate hop, such as HBU . The transmission from mobile unit  to HBU  may be over low-power cellular or ad-hoc network. Advantageously, mobile unit  does not need to consume high transmission power to communicate with HBU .","In another embodiment, mobile unit  may transfer the received information to central controller  through user terminal . The transmission from mobile unit  to user terminal  may be also over ad-hoc networks, as discussed above, when the mobile unit comes within the range of home computer . As discussed above, user terminal  may then transmit the received information to the central controller via the Internet, for example. Advantageously, mobile unit  does not need to consume high transmission power to communicate with user terminal .","In one embodiment, the information available at metering unit may be relayed to base station  or central controller  by multiple mobile units. If one mobile unit is not capable of receiving entire information available at metering unit , due to the mobility of the mobile unit, other mobile units coming within the range of metering unit may pick up the remaining information, e.g., data packets, from metering unit . In this embodiment, the data packets that are received at base station  or central controller  are grouped together based on some group identification, e.g., packet IDs.","In one embodiment, mobile base unit (MBU)  may be located in a vehicle  and driven to within communication range of remote metering unit . This embodiment, which may be an alternative to mobile unit , may be used to augment coverage in rural areas that do not yet have wireless communication services installed. In this embodiment, MBU  may read measurement information from remote metering unit over an ad-hoc network, as was described above in reference to other embodiments. MBU  may also comprise a separate computer (not shown) for data storage and post-processing instead of immediate transmission to base station  or central controller . In this embodiment, MBU  reads remote metering unit as it drives by. MBU  may then transmit the received information to base station  or central controller  directly or through mobile unit , HBU , and\/or user terminal .","In one embodiment, HBU  collects and transmits the reporting messages generated by remote metering unit to base station . HBU  may receive the control messages, orders, and responses to reporting messages from base station , and relay them to remote metering unit for action as required. However, it should be noted that in alternate embodiments, HBU  may utilize a pre-installed landline communication link  directly to the PSTN in order to communicate with central controller . This alternate embodiment would have the advantage of reduced cost of communication if a pre-existing landline communication link  already existed at the remote station. Additionally, HBU  may have an application interface that allows remote scheduling of automatic meter readings, automatic billing information transfer, and the like, based on control messages sent from central controller .","In one embodiment, HBU  may include an integrated RS-232 serial port, consumer electronic bus (CEBus) transceiver, or the like for interface, over link , to a user terminal . The user terminal may include a personal computer or a fax machine. Link  may also be an ad-hoc connection as discussed above. Thus, HBU  may serve as an interface for the customer to receive and display information sent from central controller  to HBU . For example, real-time billing data, account status inquiries, and various other value-added services, such as advertising services, may be displayed at user terminal . During peak utility usage hours, real-time pricing information may be communicated from central controller  to the customer at user terminal , prompting the customer to reduce his power consumption by turning off non-critical electrical equipments.","HBU  may also serve as a \u201cgateway\u201d for other services relating to home-integration and utility load management. For example, consider CEBus-compliant appliance  connected to HBU  via ad-hoc network connection or power line carrier (PLC) interface . Appliance  may be a lighting fixture, heating\/air conditioning unit, security system, or home entertainment system, for example. During peak hours, central controller  may send control messages to appliance , or a group of appliances on a common bus, to turn off, thus reducing real-time power loading. Also, a customer could remotely activate and deactivate appliance  by sending control messages from mobile unit  to appliance  via base station  and HBU , or alternatively via ad-hoc network link .","In one embodiment, remote metering unit may have an ad-hoc network interface with user terminal . In this embodiment, information measured at the metering device may be transferred to the user terminal  regularly, on demand, as scheduled, or when a portable user terminal  comes within the range of metering unit . The user terminal may process, store, and\/or transfer the received information to the central controller through a global communication network, such as the Internet.","In each of the above-described embodiments, multiple remote metering units \u2013may simultaneously attempt to send a message through the intermediate \u201chops,\u201d i.e., mobile unit , computer terminal , HBU , or MBU ), at the same time that other mobile subscriber units are also attempting to communicate with the base station. Thus, techniques for avoiding \u201ccollisions\u201d between competing remote metering units \u2013are provided in the U.S. Pat. No. 5,748,104, incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.","Referring now to , a remote metering unit  is illustrated. In an embodiment applicable to electrical utility meter reading, measurement device  may be an electro-mechanical power consumption monitor and display of the rotating disk or odometer types as are known in the art. Reading interface  may then be an optical or electro-mechanical interface adapted to the type of measurement device  employed. For example, if measurement device  is an electro-mechanical rotating disk, then the number of revolutions of the disk is indicative of the power consumption. In such a case, reading interface  may comprise a light source and photocell that reads a single light pulse for every revolution of the disk. Reading interface  transforms the light pulses to analog electrical pulses and transmits them to analog multiplexer (AMUX) , where they are passed to analog-to-digital converter (A\/D) . A\/D converts the analog electrical pulses to a digital signal representative of the number of revolutions counted by reading interface , and passes the resulting digital signal to microprocessor . In response to the digital signal, microprocessor  calculates and stores the total consumption in kilowatt-hours. In the preferred embodiment, the storage interval may be selectable from about one-half hour to about one month.","According to a reporting schedule that may either be programmed locally or downloaded over paging channel  from central controller  (see ), microprocessor  generates a utility consumption message for transmission to central controller . The consumption message is formatted by microprocessor  and then upconverted, modulated, amplified, and transferred to ad-hoc network interface unit , or alternatively transmitted by transmitter  over antenna . Note that in the latter embodiment, microprocessor  configures switch  for transmission only during times other than the assigned paging slot on paging channel, thereby enabling remote metering unit  to operate half-duplex without missing incoming messages from central controller . Alternately, switch  may be replaced by a conventional duplexer, as is known in the art, if half-duplex operation is not desired.","Central controller  as previously discussed transmits control and feedback messages intended for remote metering units \u2013. These messages may be transferred over ad-hoc network interface unit . Alternatively the messages may be captured by antenna , downconverted and demodulated by receiver , and passed to microprocessor  for appropriate action. Note that microprocessor  configures switch  for reception unless an outgoing transmission is required. The control messages sent by central controller  may include scheduling messages and acknowledgment of receipt of the various reporting messages transmitted by remote metering unit .","Additionally, in the exemplary embodiment of , voltage step-down transformers and are respectively coupled to the phase A and phase B electrical power lines at the customer site. In a typical electrical power installation in a residential home in the United States, the voltage level of both phase A and phase B is 120 volts. Step-down transformers and each output an analog voltage level signal that is proportional to the voltage sensed on phase A and phase B, respectively. The analog voltage level signals are passed to A\/D  by AMUX , where they are subsequently converted to digital voltage level signals. The digital voltage level signals are then passed to microprocessor  through serial interface , where they are respectively compared with a maximum and a minimum voltage level threshold. In one embodiment, the maximum and minimum voltage level thresholds are programmable, and may be enabled or disabled via control messages from central controller , as required.","If the digital voltage level signal representing the voltage sensed on phase A, and the digital voltage level signal representing the voltage sensed on phase B are both between the maximum and minimum voltage level thresholds, then the voltage level regulation of phase A and phase B is satisfactory, and no action is taken. However, if either the digital voltage level signal representing the voltage sensed on phase A, or the digital voltage level signal representing the voltage sensed on phase B is not between the maximum and minimum voltage level thresholds, then the voltage level regulation of phase A and phase B is unsatisfactory, and microprocessor  generates a fault condition message for transmission to central controller  (see ). Such a fault condition would occur if there were excessive \u201csurges\u201d or \u201cdips\u201d in the voltage level sensed on phase A or phase B, including if there were a local blackout or brownout. The fault condition message may contain an encoded representation of the actual voltage sensed on phase A and phase B. Microprocessor  may generate the fault condition message for transmission to central controller . Furthermore, central controller  may interrogate remote metering unit  and direct it to report not only the present consumption reading, but also the present voltage levels sensed on both phase A and phase B.","Additionally, in one embodiment as shown in , a tampering sensor  generates an analog tampering signal upon any attempted alteration or disconnection of remote metering unit . Tampering sensor  may be, for example, a mercury switch, or a proximity switch as is known in the art. This is desired in a utility metering application since tampering with the meter in order to \u201csteal\u201d utility service is very common. Since no person will be regularly visiting the remote metering unit  for visual inspection, the tampering sensor  is a security feature that enables remote detection of theft. The analog tampering signal is passed to A\/D  through AMUX , where it is subsequently converted to a digital tampering signal. The digital tampering signal is passed to microprocessor  through serial interface . Microprocessor  may generate a fault condition message for transmission to central controller , or it may provide for memory storage of the digital tampering signal for delayed reporting. In case remote metering unit  is disconnected, the digital tampering signal is stored in memory for later retrieval.","In one embodiment as shown in , CEBus interface , power line transceiver , and twisted pair transceiver  are shown as being an integral part of remote metering unit . However, it should be noted that these \u201cgateway\u201d devices may be located at HBU  (see ). Additionally, it should be noted that whether twisted pair transceiver  or power line transceiver  are located integrally to remote metering unit , or whether they would be present at all, may depend on the nature and configuration of the installation site. Also, it should be noted that although the CEBus interface , power line transceiver  and twisted pair transceiver  are shown as physically separate blocks in , they may be integrated into a single Very-Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), and even combined into microprocessor . VLSI ASIC techniques are well known in the art.","In one embodiment, CEBus interface  comprises a flash EPROM programmed with the specific application code required to run the various advanced services described herein. Additionally, CEBus interface  comprises non-volatile memory for storing CEBus system configuration parameters. Finally, CEBus interface  comprises the required circuitry for interfacing with microprocessor  and both power line transceiver  and twisted pair transceiver . For example, CEBus interface  may further comprise an embedded UART (not shown) for transmitting at higher data rates over twisted pair transceiver . CEBus controllers and interfaces are well known in the art. Power line transceiver  and twisted pair transceiver  each comprise the necessary circuitry to perform carrier modulation. This may include amplifiers, receivers, transformers, and various passive elements. Power line and twisted pair transceivers are also well known in the art.","In operation, control or informational messages originating in central controller , or alternately in mobile unit , may be received either through the ad-hoc network interface unit  or through receiver , and passed to microprocessor  where they are subsequently routed to CEBus interface . In response to the control or informational messages, CEBus interface  generates PLC encoded messages for transmission by either twisted pair transceiver  or power line transceiver , or both. The PLC encoded messages are transmitted on power lines  and  respectively, or on twisted pair line . CEBus-compliant appliance  receives the PLC encoded messages, decodes them, and takes appropriate action.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["140","100","140","300","300","302","308","304","306","304","310","304","304","306"]},"Received cellular signals via antenna  are provided to a power control unit  that implements a closed loop power control scheme. The power control unit  is coupled to a communication bus . The communication bus  provides a common connection between modules within the mobile unit . The communication bus  is further coupled to a memory  and a recovery adjusts unit . The memory  stores computer readable instructions for a variety of operations and functions applicable to mobile unit . The processor  performs the instructions stored in memory . For normal operating conditions, the power control unit generates a power control signalt to a power adjust unit  via multiplex or . The power adjust unit  then transfers the power control signal as an amplification level to the amplifier .","Mobile unit  may receive and\/or transmit information through an ad-hoc network interface , when mobile unit  comes within the range of another device that is equipped with an ad-hoc network interface. The information received through ad-hoc network interface  may be stored in the memory unit  and\/or processed by the processor , which may be a digital signal processor (DSP).","According to one embodiment, transmission of information from the mobile unit may be periodically, on demand from the base station or central controller, or according to a planned scheme, which may be managed by the wireless infrastructure or the central controller. The wireless infrastructure may keep track of the position location and\/or the movement profile of the mobile unit to manage data delivery from the mobile unit to the central controller. In one embodiment, when the mobile unit's current position information indicates that the mobile unit is in the proximity of the central controller or an intermediate wireless device, the mobile unit may be ordered to transfer the information to the central controller or the intermediate wireless device. This process manages the network resources better and saves battery life in the mobile unit compared to when the mobile unit transfers the information from a far distance to the central controller. In another embodiment, when the mobile unit's profile indicates the time of the day or the week that the mobile unit usually comes close to the central controller or the an intermediate wireless device, the mobile unit may be scheduled to transfer the information to the central controller or the intermediate wireless device according to the scheduled time. This intelligent planning for information transfer helps managing network resources and saves battery life in the mobile unit compared to when the mobile unit transfers the information from a far distance to the central controller or when network traffic is heavy.","Thus, the disclosed embodiments use low power, low-cost, and ad-hoc network-enabled wireless communication devices to provide flexible reading and control of remote telemetry devices, while providing advanced consumer services to customers. The wireless communication devices receive the measurement information from the metering devices, and transfer such information to the central controller, according to a planned data delivery scheme, thereby avoding expensive and high power transmitters and elaborate network planning.","The previous description of the embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. The various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The features, objects, and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify correspondingly throughout and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
