---
title: Encoding of signals to facilitate traffic analysis
abstract: A system acquires information about communication among wired or wireless nodes [] in a network [] by intercepting chunks of data in the network by a wired or wireless tap [] located among the wired or wireless nodes [] in the network. Characteristic information [] about the intercepted chunks of data may be obtained. The characteristic information may include times of arrival [] of the chunks of data at the wired or wireless tap [] and identifiers of wired or wireless source nodes [] that sent the chunks of data. At least one signal may be constructed to represent the characteristic information over time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07574597&OS=07574597&RS=07574597
owner: BBN Technologies Corp.
number: 07574597
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020805
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATION","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Exemplary Wired Network","Exemplary Wireless Network","Exemplary System-Level Processing","Exemplary Signal Generation","CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7 119(e) of provisional applications, Ser. Nos. 60\/339,288, 60\/340,780, and 60\/355,573, filed Oct. 26, 2001, Oct. 30, 2001, and Feb. 5, 2002 respectively, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","This application is also a continuation-in-part (CIP) under 37 C.F.R. \u00a7 1.53(b) of application Ser. No. 10\/167,620, filed Oct. 19, 2001, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The invention described herein was made with government support. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in the invention, as provided by the terms of contract No. MDA972-01-C-0080, awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to communication networks, and more specifically, to the monitoring of data transmitted over such networks.","2. Description of Related Art","Communication networks typically include a number of interconnected communication devices. Connections among the devices in some communication networks are accomplished through physical wires or optical links. Such networks may be referred to as \u201cwired\u201d networks. Connections among the devices in other communication networks are accomplished through radio, infrared, or other wireless links. Such networks may be referred to as \u201cwireless\u201d networks.","Communication messages (e.g., data packets) sent across communication networks may be intercepted. Intercepted messages may yield valuable information, and the process of intercepting and analyzing messages may be referred to as \u201ctraffic analysis.\u201d In general, traffic analysis seeks to understand something about the message traffic by observing the traffic and analyzing that traffic to extract information. To guard against unwanted traffic analysis, messages are typically encrypted. For example, both the content and the destination of a message could be obscured through encryption.","In some situations, however, it may still be desirable to monitor traffic flow over communication networks. Accordingly, there is a need to monitor traffic flow even when identifying information associated with the messages is encrypted.","Methods and systems consistent with the present invention address this and other needs by detecting chunks of data, determining characteristics of the detected chunks, and encoding the characteristics into one or more signals that are amenable to further processing.","In accordance with one purpose of the invention as embodied and broadly described herein, a method of acquiring information about communication among nodes in a network may include intercepting chunks of data in the network by a tap located among the nodes in the network. Characteristic information about the intercepted chunks of data may be obtained. The characteristic information may include times of arrival of the chunks of data at the tap and identifiers of source nodes that sent the chunks of data. At least one signal may be constructed to represent the characteristic information over time.","In another implementation consistent with the present invention, a method of acquiring information about communication among nodes in a network may include intercepting chunks of data in the network by a tap located among the nodes in the network. Characteristic information about the intercepted chunks of data may be obtained. The characteristic information may include times of arrival of the chunks of data at the tap and durations of the chunks of data. At least one signal may be constructed to represent the characteristic information over time.","In a further implementation consistent with the present invention, a method of acquiring information about communication among nodes in a network may include intercepting chunks of data in the network by a tap located among the nodes in the network. Characteristic information about the intercepted chunks of data may be obtained. The characteristic information may include times of arrival of the chunks of data at the tap, durations of the chunks of data, and identifiers of source nodes that sent the chunks of data. At least one signal may be constructed to represent the characteristic information over time.","In yet another implementation consistent with the present invention, a computer-readable medium that stores instructions executable by one or more processors to perform a method for acquiring information about communication in a network may include instructions for detecting chunks of data in the network by a tap located among the nodes in the network. The medium may also include instructions for obtaining times of arrival of the chunks of data at the tap. The instructions may further cause identifiers of source nodes that sent the chunks of data to be obtained. Other instructions may cause at least one signal that represents the times of arrival of the chunks of data and the identifiers of source nodes over time to be constructed.","The following detailed description of the invention refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also, the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead, the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims and equivalents.","Data encryption may hide the contents of packets (i.e., discrete units of data), but it does not obscure basic protocol mechanisms and dynamics. Some examples of these basic mechanisms may include the packet's source, destination, and the interpacket gaps caused by certain applications.","Methods and systems consistent with the principles of the invention detect chunks of data and determine characteristics of the detected chunks. The characteristics may be encoded into one or more signals that are amenable to further processing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","110","115","100","120","110","120","100","110","115","120"]},"Network nodes  may be configured to send and receive information according to a communication protocol, such as TCP\/IP. Although not specifically shown, some nodes  may be configured to provide a route for information to a specified destination. Other nodes  may be configured to send the information according to a previously-determined route. The network nodes  may communicate via discrete \u201cchunks\u201d of data (i.e., separate pieces of data that extend over a period of time) that are transmitted by \u201csenders\u201d . A chunk may be individually detectable or distinguishable (i.e., a listening device, such as tap , may determine when a chunk starts and ends). A chunk of data need not exactly correspond to a packet of data. A chunk may represent part of a packet (e.g., a fragment or an ATM cell of an AAL5 PDU), or multiple packets (e.g., two packets concatenated).","Chunks of data may be transmitted by \u201csenders\u201d . A sender  may be the most recent node  to transmit a particular chunk (e.g., node n in , if the tap  intercepts a chunk transmitted to node n). The sender  (e.g., node n) is not necessarily the node  that originated the chunk (e.g., node n in , continuing the previous example).","Network links  may include electronic links (e.g., wires or coaxial cables) and optical links (e.g., fiber optic cables). These links  may provide a connection between two nodes  (e.g., nodes n and n). It may be possible to physically tap into these links  to observe the information carried on them.","Network tap  is a device that may intercept chunk transmissions on the network . The tap  may include a physical connection to a corresponding link  and circuitry to detect chunks of data on the link . The tap  may intercept chunks at a physical layer, a link layer, a network layer, or at higher layers of the network  being monitored. The layer at which interceptions occur is within the abilities of those skilled in the art, and may be chosen based on knowledge of, and access to, the network links . The tap  may include, for example, a transceiver for sensing the chunks of data and may also include other circuitry (e.g., clock circuitry) for determining times of arrival and duration of the chunks. The tap  may include a processor for computing any other information associated with the chunks, such as information contained within a header of the chunk of data (e.g., identity of a sending node and\/or receiving node).","In the example of , tap  may observe traffic on the link  between nodes n and n. Tap  may record information about all the chunks that it observes in a \u201ctracefile.\u201d","The tracefile may contain a minimum amount of information for each observed chunk. For example, the information may include the time the chunk was seen and the identity of the sender  of the chunk. The identity of the sender  may include, for example, the IP address of an IPsec gateway, the upstream or downstream transmitter on the point-to-point link , or \u201cthe same sender  as the one that also sent these other chunks.\u201d If available, the tracefile may also include additional information about the length or duration of the chunk, the destination node , or any insight into the contents of the chunk. Other information that may be available is the location of the tap  along the link  relative to the nodes  at either end of the link .","Tap  may not capture all traffic on the link . For example, tap  may occasionally make an error and mistakenly believe it has seen a chunk when no chunk was sent (e.g., due to bit errors on wired network ). If transmissions are missed, false transmissions are detected, or if a sender  is misclassified, these events may be viewed as adding noise to the signals generated by the tap . Other sources of noise in the signal generated by the tap  may include interference from other signals (e.g., packets belonging to another flow, or jitter in timing due to sharing of a bottleneck among multiple flows).","Tap  may listen passively and may not participate in the monitored network  at the MAC (or higher) layers. In some cases, for example with 802.3 LANs, it is possible for the tap  to snoop at the MAC layer and extract some information about higher layer protocols. In the case of SONET networks, however, little or no information may be available about the MAC or higher layer protocols. Such passive listening may also be referred to as covert information collection.","Although a single tap  is shown in , wired network  may contain many taps , which may be interconnected. Taps  may work independently using purely local information. Distributed algorithms may allow sharing of information among taps . In such a case, taps  may have a globally synchronized clock that allows information from multiple taps  to be combined. A clock resolution of the taps  may be finer than the data sampling resolution of the taps , so that information about transmissions (e.g., the start time, duration, inter-transmission gap, and even the presence of short transmissions) is not missed.","A tap  (or a network of taps ) should store the transmissions that it detects for a sufficient amount of time. For example, the round-trip time of a transport layer flow cannot be determined if the history that may be stored at tap  is less than one roundtrip time. The total volume of data that is stored depends on the capacity of the link  and the maximum round-trip time of flows seen on the link . Taps  may assign a unique identifier to each sender , for example, based on the address of the IPsec gateway. Taps  in the network  may assign the same unique identifier to any given sender .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","210","220","210","220","225"]},"Although six nodes  and one tap  are shown in , this is purely exemplary. Wireless network  may include any number and configuration of nodes  and taps . The behavior and operation of the wireless nodes  and the wireless tap , where similar to the network nodes  and tap  described above, will not be repeated.","Wireless nodes  may communicate via chunks of data that are transmitted by wireless senders . Senders  may transmit using various types of wireless physical layers, such as terrestrial RF, satellite bands, and free space optical. Wireless nodes  may be, for example, radio routers or client radios in the wireless network .","Wireless tap  is a device that may intercept wireless transmissions on the network . Unlike tap , which may detect chunks of data only on a certain link , wireless tap  may observe some (potentially very large) fraction of the wireless spectrum, and thus may see transmissions from a wide range of wireless senders . As shown in , tap  may have a limited effective reception range. Dashed line  indicates an effective reception area through which tap  may receive communications from the nodes. As shown, nodes n and n are out of the effective reception area and will not be monitored by tap . Nodes n-n, which are within the range , may be monitored by tap . The tap  may include, for example, a transceiver for sensing the chunks of data and may also include other circuitry (e.g., clock circuitry) for determining times of arrival and duration of the chunks. The tap  may include a processor for computing any other information associated with the chunks, such as information contained within physical characteristics of the chunk of data (e.g., the identity of a sending or receiving node).","Wireless tap  also may record information about all the chunks that it observes in a tracefile. The tracefile may contain a minimum amount of information for each observed chunk. For example, the information may include the time the chunk was seen and the identity of the wireless sender  of the chunk. The identity of the wireless sender  may include, for example, an RF signature, the location of a radio transmitter , or \u201cthe same wireless sender  as the one that also sent these other chunks.\u201d If available, the tracefile may also include additional information about the length or duration of the chunk, the destination node , or any insight into the contents of the chunk. Other information that may be available is the geographic location of the tap , as determined by, for example, a global positioning system (GPS) receiver.","Tap  may not capture all traffic within its range . For example, reception on the wireless network  may be variable due to environment, noise, transmission power, or jamming such that a tap is unable to observe some transmissions. Furthermore, tap  may occasionally make an error and mistakenly believe it has seen a chunk when no chunk was sent (again due to noise on a wireless network). If transmissions are missed, false transmissions are detected, or if a wireless sender  is misclassified, these events may be viewed as adding noise to the signals generated by the wireless tap . Other sources of noise in the signal generated by the tap  may include interference from other signals (e.g., packets belonging to another flow or jitter in timing due to sharing of a bottleneck among multiple flows).","Tap  may listen passively and may not participate in the monitored network  at the MAC (or higher) layers. In some cases, for example with 802.11b LANs, it is possible for the tap  to snoop at the MAC layer and extract some information about higher layer protocols. In the case of tactical ad hoc networks, however, little or no information may be available about the MAC or higher layer protocols. Such passive listening may also be referred to as covert information collection.","Although a single tap  is shown in , wireless network  may contain many taps , which may be interconnected. In general, the number of wireless taps  placed in network  is determined by the desired coverage level of network . Taps  may work independently using purely local information. Distributed algorithms may allow sharing of information among taps . In such a case, wireless taps  may have a globally synchronized clock that allows information from multiple taps  to be combined. A clock resolution of the taps  may be finer than the data sampling resolution of the taps , so that information about transmissions (e.g., the start time, duration, inter-transmission gap, and even the presence of short transmissions) is not missed.","In the presence of mobile nodes  (for example, in ad hoc wireless networks or Mobile IP), taps  may, but need not, be mobile. Taps  may be placed randomly over a specified geographic area, or in a pattern. Alternately, taps  may be placed near respective senders . Wireless senders  can move into or out of range of one or more taps . Senders  typically may dwell in the range of one or more taps  long enough for transmissions to be observed, and the sources identified and recorded. Taps  may assign a unique identifier to each wireless sender , for example, based on their RF signature. Taps  in the network  may assign the same unique identifier to any given sender .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["100","200","120","220","100","200","120","220","310"]},"Either the tap \/ or an associated (possibly central) processor (not shown) may perform processing on the signal produced by the tap \/ to produce results [act ]. Such signal processing may produce identifiable signal traffic features, and may be computationally intensive. Those skilled in the art will appreciate, based on processing and networking requirements, whether to perform the signal processing at each tap \/ or other location(s).","The signal processing results may be further processed to analyze and classify the traffic on the network \/ [act ]. Again, such traffic analysis processing may be performed by the tap \/ or another processor. Acts - may be broadly characterized as \u201csignal generation,\u201d \u201csignal processing,\u201d and \u201ctraffic analysis,\u201d respectively. These acts will be described in greater detail for certain implementations below.","Tracefile:","Once a tap \/ has generated a tracefile of tapped data, a signal may be generated (e.g., as in act ) from the tracefile for further traffic analysis. A tracefile may represent discrete events, namely a sequence of events associated with different times. The tracefile may include other information (e.g., sender or recipient information) associated with the events.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","400","410","400","420","430","440","450"]},"The time of arrival  may be based on when the tap \/ sensed the leading edge of a chunk of data. Although its information content may be limited, a signal may be encoded using solely time of arrival information . The presence of additional information (e.g., -) may allow the generation of additional signals and\/or signals with more robust information content.","One additional piece of information that the tap \/ may obtain is the size\/duration  of a chunk of data. The tap may measure a length of time (i.e., duration) when data is present after it first sees the chunk. This duration  may be converted into a size (e.g., a certain number of bytes) by observing segmentation in the chunk of data. Alternately, the tap \/ may estimate the size  of a chunk of data by measuring a clock-time duration of when the chunk is present and by multiplying the duration by a bandwidth of the wired or wireless link over which the chunk travels.","Another piece of information that the tap \/ may obtain is identification of the source node  which sent the chunk of data. The identity (or address) of the source node  may be obtained, for example, even if the chunk of data is otherwise encrypted. A wireless tap  may obtain, for example, data including the time of arrival , the source node , and the size\/duration  of chunks of data.","A further piece of information that the tap \/ may obtain is the identity (or address) of the destination node  to which the chunk of data is addressed. The identity of the destination node  may be obtained, for example, even if the chunk of data is otherwise encrypted. A wired tap  may obtain, for example, data including the time of arrival , the size\/duration , the source node , and the destination node  of chunks of data. The wired tap  may obtain the latter two pieces of information, because it may know between which two nodes it is located.","Although designated as nodes \u201c\u201d and \u201c\u201d in , the addresses \/ of the source node and the destination node may be IP addresses, formatted according to a version of an internet protocol (e.g., IPv4). Alternately these addresses \/ may be, for example in the wired case, just an indication of which direction on the wire the received chunk of data was traveling.","Yet another piece of information that the tap \/ may obtain is the type  of the chunk of data. The type  (e.g., a TCP packet, an ACK message, a CBR packet, etc.) of chunk may be determined by examining the chunk itself. For example, unencrypted formatting data within the chunk may make the type  of chunk apparent. Alternately, the type  of chunk may be inferred from other information, such as the source node  or the size\/duration  of the chunk.","The tap \/ may, if available, obtain other information from intercepted chunks of data, such as any field from an IP header associated with the chunk of data. Even if the body of the chunk is encrypted, the tap \/ may be able to determine a location of, and read information from, the header of the chunk. Similarly, the tap \/ may determine an IP security association value of the chunk. In a wireless network (e.g., ), the tap  may also determine a signal strength of a chunk of data. Those skilled in the art will appreciate additional information in addition to the above examples may be directly or indirectly obtained by tap \/.","Signal Formation:","Signals may be formed from tracefiles (e.g., tracefile ) by various techniques, which will be discussed below. In general, signals may be discrete-event data streams or files, and multiple items of information (e.g., -) may be encoded within a single signal. In other implementations consistent with the principles of the invention, multiple signals may be generated from the same tracefile (e.g., one signal for arrivals from one node and another signal for arrivals from another node). Discrete-event data signals may facilitate later processing of those signals by a digital signal processor or general purpose computer. In still other implementations consistent with the principles of the invention, continuous signals may be constructed (e.g., by a digital-to-analog converter, digital logic combination, or similar device) to facilitate further signal filtering, truncation, or transformation that is performed in a non-discrete manner (e.g., by analog or digital electrical signal manipulation).","Approaches to signal generation may be generally grouped in non-uniform and uniformly-spaced methods. Under the former scheme, a non-uniform signal may be represented as a non-uniformly-spaced sequence of data. Data may include, for example, arrival times  and little other information. Non-arrivals need not be explicitly listed in such a signal, allowing for compact representation and storage.","Each chunk arrival time  may indicate the leading edge of the discrete events in the tap's tracefile, where time is quantized to the desired resolution. Only a limited number of signal processing algorithms, however, have been derived for non-uniform data (i.e., data that does not have a uniform sampling). One example of such a signal processing algorithm is a Lomb Periodogram, which can process non-uniformly sampled data sets.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 5A","b":["510","510","120","220"]},"Another approach to producing a signal representing time of arrival of chunks is to pick an appropriate time quantization, to bin time into increments at that quantization, and to place a marker in the bins where a chunk was detected. This process may be termed \u201cre-sampling,\u201d and it produces a uniformly sampled signal. Various schemes are available for determining into which time bin a given event will fall. These include a ceiling function (i.e., the bin below), a floor function (i.e., the bin above), a random function (e.g., a random or pseudo-random one of the adjacent bins), etc. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate various schemes for handling multiple arrival events that fall within the same time bin. One such scheme would be to uniquely spread the arrivals among a number of empty adjacent bins (not shown) to keep the multiple arrivals from being obscured. Due to errors introduced by the re-sampling, some information in the tracefile may be lost, but characteristic frequency and similarity information in the tracefile(s) may be maintained by re-sampling.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"],"b":["520","520","510"]},"Both  illustrate a single element of tracefile , namely the time of arrival . Additional information, however, may be encoded in a signal if such additional information is present in the tracefile. For example, if source node information  is present, times of arrival from two nodes may be differentiated using a sign function (i.e., sgn(x), where x is the node).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 5C","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["420","410","530","420","1","540","420","2","420"]},"Those skilled in the art will appreciate other ways of encoding source node information after reading this disclosure. For example, in one implementation consistent with the principles of the invention, the source node information  may be used to create different signals, each corresponding to a particular source node. With reference to , a signal may be embedded with the impulses , and another signal may be embedded with the impulses .","If, for example, the duration  of each chunk is also known, several schemes may be used to encode this additional information in the signal.  illustrates one scheme for encoding the size\/duration information  into a signal. Similar to , impulses  represent times of arrival of chunks from a first source node  (e.g., node  in ), and negative impulses  represent times of arrival of chunks from a second source node  (e.g., node  in ). In contrast to , the impulses  and  are weighted in proportion to their respective size\/duration . That is, impulses  may be weighted to reflect a size\/duration  of 1000 units as shown in , while impulses  may be weighted to reflect a size\/duration  of 40 units.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":["FIG. 5E","FIG. 5E"],"b":["450","570","570","450","570","450"]},"Further, multiple chunks may be in transit and received by the tap \/ at substantially the same time (e.g., within the same sample time quantization period or \u201cbin\u201d). For ease of explanation, arrivals  that fall within the same sample bin will be referred to herein as \u201csimultaneous,\u201d even though they may not, in fact, arrive at exactly the same time. In other words, the \u201csimultaneous\u201d times of arrival  may be very closely spaced. Several techniques are available for handling such chunk arrivals .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":["FIG. 5F","FIGS. 5E and 5F","FIG. 5F","FIG. 5F"],"b":["580","590","570"]},"Returning to , another approach to keep simultaneous data from being obscured may be to jitter the time of the conflicting arrivals into adjacent empty sample times\/bins. For example, of the three chunk arrivals in increment A, one may be placed in an empty time slot before increment A, and one may be placed in an empty time slot after increment A. Hence, instead of a single pulse  with a magnitude of three, this scheme produces three adjacent pulses  around increment A, each with a magnitude of one. Similarly, one of the two arrivals in increment B may be placed before increment B, and one of the two arrivals in increment C may be placed after increment C. Thus, instead of two pulses  with a magnitude of two, this scheme produces four adjacent pulses  around increments B and C, each with a magnitude of one.","Another approach to simultaneous arrivals  may be to generate distinct tracefiles for each sender. Multiple tracefiles may refine later traffic flow analysis by focusing on traffic from each sender separately.","In general, the pulses - may encode, in addition to their start time, at least two pieces of information in their 1) height and 2) width. For example, time-related information (e.g., transmit time or packet duration ) may be encoded as the pulse width.","Further, the pulses - need not be rectangular as shown in . Pulses may be, for example, Gaussian pulses whose width and\/or height may be proportional to multiple different pieces of information -.","Other Signal Formation Schemes:","Other encoding schemes will be apparent to those skilled in the art, depending on the amount of available information in the tracefiles and the ability of later signal processing schemes to use the available information. Information in addition to time of arrival  may be encoded into signals from tracefiles . It should be noted that such additional information is not limited to items -, but may include other data directly obtainable by taps \/. Further, the additional data may include data that is indirectly obtained (e.g., derived or calculated) from data directly obtained by taps \/. One example of such indirectly obtained data is inter-arrival time, which may be calculated from adjacent arrivals in the time of arrival data . Those skilled in the art will appreciate other directly and indirectly obtainable items of data from taps \/ after reading the disclosure herein.","Exemplary schemes may include binary, sign, real weighted, absolute value weighted, complex weighted, and multi-dimensional weighted schemes. Binary, sign, real weighted, and absolute value weighted methods may be referred to, collectively, as \u201csingle-valued\u201d functions. By contrast, complex weighted and multi-dimensional weighted methods may be referred to as \u201cmulti-valued\u201d functions.","An encoding function of a parameter x may be referred to in shorthand as f(x). The single-valued functions listed above will now be described in greater detail. For a binary scheme, f(x)=0 if x<c, where c is an arbitrary constant. Otherwise, f(x)=1. For a sign encoding scheme, f(x)=sgn(x). This sign technique may retain polarity information, but may eliminate the actual value of the parameter x. In a real weighted scheme, f(x)=cx, where c is a constant that may be helpful in scaling the data. In an absolute value weighted scheme, f(x)=c abs(x), where c is a constant.","The multi-valued functions listed above will now be described in greater detail. For a complex weighted function, f(x,y)=ax+jby for constants a and b. Many signal processing techniques use complex arithmetic to preserve phase information. This complex weighted technique may preserve such phase information. For a multi-dimensional weighted technique, f(x)=c*x, where x is a vector formed by a number of data values at a given time t, and where c is a vector of weighting constants.","In addition to one-dimensional signal encoding, tracefile data  may also be encoded as two-dimensional signals. Data encoded as a two-dimensional signal may be processed with any of a rich arsenal of algorithms used for signal processing. Examples of two-dimensional signal processing algorithms may include, but are not limited to, periodogram processing, spectrum processing, cepstrum processing, coherence processing, wavelet processing, fractal processing, etc.","One way of generating a two-dimensional signal may be to process a time of arrival signal over periodic intervals to obtain a series of results (e.g., spectra, periodograms, cepstra, etc.). These results may be combined over time into a two-dimensional signal.","Another way of generating a two-dimensional signal may be to plot inter-arrival time vs. arrival time. For example, horizontal positions in an image x(k) may equal (t\u2212t), the inter-arrival times. Vertical positions in the image y(k) may equal t, the arrival times. The intensity of points within the image z(k) may equal f(x), a magnitude assigned to the arrival time impulse or pulse by one of the above-described schemes.","The above methods of generating signals from data collected by taps \/ are exemplary, and should not limit other methods of generating signals which may be implemented by those skilled in the art without undue experimentation.","Exemplary Signal Processing","Processing of signals (e.g., as in act ) may be performed by techniques that are generally understood by those skilled in the signal processing arts. Various techniques may be used to extract, for example, periodic features of a signal. For non-uniformly sampled signals, Lomb periodograms may be used. For uniformly-sampled signals, Fourier-transform techniques or Cepstrum processing may be used to generate spectra or cepstra, respectively. These spectra or cepstra may be combined over time to form periodograms or cepstrograms.","Other techniques may compute the power spectral density of a signal. Fractal and wavelet-based techniques may also be employed. Moreover, for pairs of signals, cross spectral density or coherence techniques may be used to compute the \u201csameness\u201d of the two signals.","Exemplary Flow Classification Processing","Classification of signatures (e.g., as in act ) is generally understood by those skilled in the signal processing arts. Various techniques are known to classify a certain signature into one or more different classes. Generally, these techniques involve training or otherwise developing a number of known signatures, against which a candidate signature will be compared. Candidate signatures may be compared against a set of known signatures, and probabilities or other measures of \u201csameness\u201d with various known signatures may be generated. Alternately, binary decisions may be made (i.e., matches or does not) based on a boundary between different signatures in a particular signature-space.","Using a periodogram, a signal generated from a tap \/ may be used to determine a number of data flows on a wired or wireless network. From the periodicity information in such periodograms, a type of data flow (e.g., FTP, CBR, etc.) may be hypothesized. Such classification of flows may be aided by other knowledge, such as typical transmission periods of different types of flows.","Periodograms may exhibit the dominant frequencies\/periods in a signal. One type of such a dominant period is the round-trip time of a signal flow (e.g., in a TCP flow, the time between sending a packet and receiving an acknowledgment of the packet from the destination node). Another type of dominant period may be the latency associated with a data flow. Certain types of data flows (i.e., applications) may have \u201ccharacteristic\u201d periods\/frequencies associated with them (e.g., voice over IP, video data, sensor data, etc.). These characteristic periods may be inherent in the type of data flow (e.g., a continuous stream of data). To the extent that these characteristic periods\/frequencies identify certain applications or types of data flows, these periods may be used as \u201csignatures\u201d of the applications for classification processing. Applications that are not directly observed may still be characterized, because of their influence on other data flows that are observed. Hence, using a minimal amount of information, such as the arrival times of chunks at a tap \/, different flows at the tap \/ may be detected and classified.","Methods and systems consistent with the principles of the invention may detect chunks of data and determine characteristics of the detected chunks. The characteristics may be encoded into one or more signals that are amenable to further processing.","The foregoing description of preferred embodiments of the invention provides illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.","For example, other types and permutations of signal encoding not specifically illustrated in  are specifically contemplated. Those methods of encoding information into a signal that are explicitly described are illustrative of similar techniques for encoding data into a time-series signal.","Moreover, the acts in  need not be implemented in the order shown; nor do all of the acts need to be performed. Also, those acts which are not dependent on other acts may be performed in parallel with the other acts.","No element, act, or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the article \u201ca\u201d is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended, the term \u201cone\u201d or similar language is used. The scope of the invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate an embodiment of the invention and, together with the description, explain the invention. In the drawings,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 5C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 5E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5F"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
