---
title: Projectile structure
abstract: A scramjet has a cowl, a center structure, and a plurality of wide pylons connecting the cowl to the center structure, with scramjet engines positioned between adjacent pylons. Leading surfaces of adjacent pylons converge to one another to provide side wall compression to air entering the engines. The center structure includes a fore body, a center body and an aft body that, with the pylons, define a basic structure either formed entirely from one piece or several securely connected pieces. A method of testing the scramjet projectile comprises using a gun to accelerate the scramjet projectile to the takeover velocity of the engines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07051659&OS=07051659&RS=07051659
owner: Alliant Techsystems Inc.
number: 07051659
owner_city: Edina
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020610
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60\/311,367, filed Aug. 13, 2001, and entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TESTING ENGINES.\u201d","This invention was developed in part under a Phase II Small Business Innovation Research Contract.","1. Field of the Invention","Embodiments of the invention relate to high velocity engines and projectiles. More particularly, embodiments of the invention relate to testing procedures and apparatuses for high velocity engines and projectiles.","2. Description of Related Art","Ramjet and supersonic combustion ramjet (scramjet) technology has been the subject of extensive research and development. In this application, the term ramjet is intended to include scramjets, where appropriate. Scramjet engines provide propulsion at hypersonic speeds (i.e., above Mach 5) by capturing atmospheric air to burn onboard fuel. For hypersonic propulsion, these air breathing engines are more efficient than rocket motors and can allow longer duration hypersonic flight with greater payload.","Testing scramjet engines has, in the past, been an extremely expensive undertaking. This is due to the need to accelerate a scramjet to its takeover velocity, the velocity at which the engine begins to be able to operate. The takeover velocity is at supersonic or hypersonic speeds. One mainstream thought regarding methods of accelerating a scramjet engine to the takeover velocity involves a first stage vehicle being lifted to flight level by a jet aircraft and released. The first stage vehicle then accelerates the scramjet vehicle beyond the takeover velocity, at which point the scramjet engine ignites and testing can begin. The costs associated with one such test can be on the order of magnitude of $10 million. The high cost of such testing has proved to be prohibitive in many cases, resulting in insufficient testing of scramjet technology.","As a low cost alternative, it has been proposed to use a gas gun to accelerate to supersonic speeds a projectile having a scramjet engine. Many problems exist with the prior art ramjet test projectile and with methods for launching such a ramjet test projectile from a gas gun. For example, the acceleration forces to which a ramjet, and particularly a scramjet, projectile are subjected during a gas gun launch is more than 5000 G's and is more typically on the order of 10,000 G's, that is, 10,000 times the force of gravity, or more. Launches from other types of guns can subject a scramjet or other projectile to 60,000 or 70,000 G's. At accelerations as high as these, the projectile must be G-hardened to withstand the loads resulting from the acceleration. Conventional mechanical fasteners often used in the prior art cannot withstand such forces. Moreover, the basic structural design of prior art ramjet projectiles is incapable of withstanding such forces. Prior ramjet test projectiles typically include a heavy center body surrounded by a cowl. Thin pylons are used to hold the center body and cowl together. When a projectile having such a construction is subjected to the high acceleration forces present during gun launch, the thin pylons break and the test projectile disintegrates.","A projectile structure is provided. In an exemplary embodiment, the projectile structure comprises a cowl and a center structure. A plurality of wide pylons connects the cowl to the center structure. At least one engine is provided, the engine being located between adjacent pylons. The cowl, the center structure and the plurality of pylons form an integral structure. The pylons define, in part, the inlet to the engine, providing side wall compression to a fluid provided to the engine.","Embodiments of the invention greatly increase the feasibility of ramjet, and particularly scramjet, technology, research and development. By using a gas gun to launch a scramjet projectile, embodiments of the invention reduce the launch cost of a scramjet projectile by two orders of magnitude compared to aircraft-released and\/or rocket acceleration.","Exemplary embodiments of the present invention overcome the problems in the prior art. Embodiments of the invention use strong materials, such as titanium, for the projectile. The scramjets of the invention have a basic structure formed from a single piece or constructed from a small number of parts connected securely, such as by welding or threaded connections. For example, particular embodiments of the invention are constructed from four titanium parts welded together.","Exemplary embodiments of the present invention utilize wide pylons as structural members of the projectile. The use of wide pylons as structural members is enabled by also using the pylons to form part of the scramjet engine inlet. Otherwise, wide pylons would adversely affect engine performance. When used as part of the scramjet engine inlets, the pylons provide tangential compression to the inlet air-flow. The arrangement of the pylons at the inlet, along with a tapered fore body, provides a radial and tangential flow to incoming air, that is, flow of air radially outward from the longitudinal axis of the scramjet and in directions tangential to the scramjet. Thus, the arrangement of the pylons in the scramjet according to the present invention provides a three-dimensional air flow. The three-dimensional air flow leads to improved scramjet performance compared to the two-dimensional air flow achieved by the high aspect ratio slit used for the inlet flow area in the prior art. Thus, the structure and design of the pylons in the present invention provide structural integrity to the test projectile, as well as improved scramjet engine performance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIGS. 1\u20134","FIGS. 1 and 2"],"b":["100","110","114","125","140","110","114","110","115","140","115","125","114","110","120","114","125","140","200","140","120","124","126","100","200","126","120","114","125","140","110","114","125","120"]},"Two flow passages  are shown in cross-section in . The flow passages  extend longitudinally through the projectile. Inlets to flow passages  are each defined by leading portions of side surfaces  of adjacent pylons  and by center body . The inlets are preferably not enclosed by the cowl . As shown in , leading portions of side surfaces  of adjacent pylons  are arranged opposite each other to define the inlets to flow passages . The side surfaces  of the pylons  are arranged to converge forwardly toward opposing side surfaces  of adjacent pylons and thereby provide sidewall compression to the air entering the inlets. Accordingly, the air entering the inlets of flow passages  is compressed by the external surface  of the conical fore body  and also by leading portions of the side surfaces  of the pylons . Preferably, the external surface  of the conical fore body  and leading portions of the side surfaces  are configured to have certain angles to compress and turn the air as it enters the inlets, thus, raising the pressure of the air flow.","In the illustrated embodiment, the pylons  and the leading edge  of cowl  define notches  at the inlets. The notches  here are V-shaped and have leading points , at the leading edges  of the pylons , and rear points . The notches  may have other shapes, for example, U-shape, elliptical or hyperbolic, but are usually generally scalloped in shape. The objective of the shape of the leading edge of the cowl  is to achieve a shock wave at the rear points  for the design Mach number, and allow a self-starting inlet. The leading edge of the cowl  is arranged to intersect a conical shock wave set up by the conical fore body . The shapes of the notches  are designed such that the leading edge of the cowl  also conforms to planar shock waves set up by the leading portions of the side surfaces  of the pylons . These provisions maximize the performance of the engines. Each notch  is the leading edge of an exterior surface . Although exterior surfaces  are shown as having both concave and convex surfaces, other shapes for exterior surfaces  are also appropriate.","Utilizing the pylons  to compress the incoming air flow allows the pylons to be made wider than in prior art scramjet projectiles. In previous projectile structures, wide pylons would have inhibited air flow into the scramjet engines and affected the performance of the engines. However, by using the pylons to compress the air entering the engines in accordance with the present invention, it is possible to have wide pylons that provide structural integrity to the projectile. For example, a profile width of the pylons , the width between adjacent flow passages at the throat of the flow passages, can be made as great as and even greater than a profile width of the engines, the width of the flow passages  between adjacent pylons  being from 1 to 12 times as great, preferably 2 to 5 times as great. These relative widths, as described, are taken at the throat, the minimum flow area of the flow passages . Pylons having such thicknesses provide the structural integrity needed for the test projectile to withstand the high acceleration forces, G forces, generated during gas gun launch. The key is to have wide pylons to give structural integrity while at the same time using those wide pylons constructively to yield high engine performance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIGS. 1","FIGS. 3 and 4","FIG. 9"],"b":["100","100","3","4","120","200","120","100","200","120","120","124","215","400"]},"As can be seen in , each flow passage  has at its rearmost portion a nozzle . In addition, each flow passage  has a flame holder  and fuel supply ports . Primary storage area  is provided in aft body . Fuel can be stored in primary storage area  and supplied to each of the flow passages  by fuel valve  and fuel system . Fuel valve  may be an inertially activated valve of a known type that is triggered by high G forces to allow fuel to flow. The fuel can be a compressed or liquefied gas or a solid fuel. In this example, fuel system  supplies fuel through apertures  and passages (not shown) through the center body  and the pylons  to fuel supply ports  in the pylons. The throat of each flow passage  is preferably located upstream of the point at which fuel is introduced into the flow passage . Also shown in  is a secondary storage volume , which can store, for example, additional fuel, navigational or communications instrumentation, or munitions.","In operation, air is compressed, turned and introduced to flow passages . As discussed above, the pylons  are arranged to provide side wall compression. The turning of the air is performed by the pylons  and conical fore body , with the pylons  preferably providing about two-thirds of the turning and the conical fore body  providing the remaining one-third. The external surface  of the conical fore body  can have an angle, from the longitudinal axis to the surface, of, for example, about 8 degrees to perform compression and turning of the air.","The temperature of the air rises due to the heat of compression. As the compressed air passes fuel supply ports , fuel is introduced by fuel supply ports  and ignited, for example, by spontaneous combustion due to compression or by other ignition. As the burning air\/fuel mixture progresses along flow passages , it expands and exits projectile structure  through nozzles , thereby creating thrust to move the projectile forward. In the illustrated embodiment, each flow passage  is an independent scramjet engine. The fuel supply ports  of all of the flow passages  can be controlled together so that, when fuel flows, it flows to all of the flow passages  simultaneously. Thus, the outputs of all of the engines can be controlled together. In preferred embodiments, the fuel supply ports  of each flow passage  are independently controlled so that the amount of thrust generated by each flow passage  is controllable independently of the thrust of other flow passages . As a result, the output of each engine is controllable independently, and the projectile structure  can be steered during flight by independently controlling the amount of fuel supplied to each flow passage .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 5\u20138","b":["300","300","305","300","305","305","310","320","320","310","330","310","315","315","310","330"]},"Gun barrel  is connected to a blast tank , which is, in turn, connected to a range tank . A membrane  separates blast tank  and range tank . When the gas gun  is fired, the air in the gas gun  gets extremely hot. An inert gas should be provided in blast tank  to prevent any unwanted combustion during the firing of the gun. The air pressure in range tank  is reduced to simulate flight at altitude, for example, about 100,000 feet. Membrane  may include a fast acting valve that opens to allow the test projectile to pass through, then closes quickly to maintain the separation between blast tank  and range tank .","In operation, the projectile structure  to be tested is arranged in gun barrel . Piston  is accelerated to the right in  to compress a light gas in pump tube . Examples of the gas that can be used in pump tube  are hydrogen and helium. Piston  can be accelerated by, for example, a gunpowder explosion behind piston  (to the left of piston  in ) or any other appropriate means.  shows piston  being moved toward the right and compressing the gas in pump tube . Projectile structure  begins to move to the right under the force created by the compressed gas in pump tube . The test projectile may have a full bore structure. Therefore, some means of preventing the light gas from passing through the flow passages  of projectile structure  is preferably used. For example, a pusher plate  can be used behind projectile structure  between projectile structure  and the light gas. Alternatively, some means of protecting the rear and\/or sides of projectile structure  (and possibly gun barrel ) can be used. An example of such protection is a sabot , shown in . Sabots also provide a means to distribute the launch load onto a larger area of projectile structure . The pusher plate  or the sabot , whichever is used, separates from the projectile structure  at some point after the projectile structure  exits the gun barrel .  shows piston  at its rightmost position and projectile structure  moving toward the right in gun barrel . Projectile structure  is preferably accelerated to takeover velocity in gun barrel . Projectile structure  then exits gun barrel  and proceeds through blast tank  and down range tank .  shows projectile structure  piercing membrane  after exiting gun barrel .","Instrumentation  is provided to detect and record the position of projectile structure  versus time during its flight through blast tank  and range tank . The instrumentation  can include x-ray stations to determine not only position vs. time, but also the structural integrity of the projectile. The instrumentation  can also include photo stations for taking laser-illuminated digital photographs of the projectile; infrared stations to take infrared images of the exhausts of the engines, to determine engine efficiency; stations for ultraviolet imaging and shadowgraphs; and high speed video cameras, such as those produced under the trademark HYCAM. Projectile structure  may also be provided with instrumentation. The instrumentation included with projectile structure  can include RF transmitting\/receiving capability in order to provide from the test projectile information concerning pressure, temperature, acceleration, etc. Both the instrumentation  and the instrumentation of the projectile structure  record information about the performance of the projectile and its engines. The flight of projectile structure  is concluded as it impacts end wall  of range tank .","Although the method of testing according to the present invention has been described in connection with a gas gun employing a light gas, it is understood that the method is applicable to other guns, such as large military guns.","As mentioned above, the relative thickness of pylons  in preferred embodiments of the invention provide space that can be used to store, for example, fuel, munitions, instrumentation, booster engines or other appropriate material. As discussed above, ramjet and scramjet engines must reach a takeover velocity (usually Mach 2 or greater) before they will operate. In certain embodiments of the invention, pylons  can be made hollow in order to allow placement of a booster, for example a solid or other rocket booster, that can be used to accelerate the ramjet or scramjet engine up to the takeover velocity. A booster can be provided in each pylon or only in selected pylons. For example, if the projectile structure  has eight pylons, any number from one to eight boosters may be used. However, it is preferable to space the boosters symmetrically so as to more easily create symmetrical thrust.  shows a rear view of a projectile structure  using a rocket booster  in each of eight pylons.","While the invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments and examples, those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications may be made thereto without significantly departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 5\u20138"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
