---
title: Methods for matching, selecting, narrowcasting, and/or classifying based on rights management and/or other information
abstract: Rights management information is used at least in part in a matching, narrowcasting, classifying and/or selecting process. A matching and classification utility system comprising a kind of Commerce Utility System is used to perform the matching, narrowcasting, classifying and/or selecting. The matching and classification utility system may match, narrowcast, classify and/or select people and/or things, non-limiting examples of which include software objects. The Matching and Classification Utility system may use any pre-existing classification schemes, including at least some rights management information and/or other qualitative and/or parameter data indicating and/or defining classes, classification systems, class hierarchies, category schemes, class assignments, category assignments, and/or class membership. The Matching and Classification Utility may also use at least some rights management information together with any artificial intelligence, expert system, statistical, computational, manual, or any other means to define new classes, class hierarchies, classification systems, category schemes, and/or assign persons, things, and/or groups of persons and/or things to at least one class.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07110983&OS=07110983&RS=07110983
owner: Intertrust Technologies Corporation
number: 07110983
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021018
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/498,369, filed Feb. 4, 2000, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/965,185, filed Nov. 6, 1997, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,112,181, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.","The inventions relate to electronic rights and transaction management. More particularly, the inventions relate to automated systems, methods and techniques for efficiently matching, selecting, narrowcasting, categorizing and\/or classifying in a distributed electronic rights and\/or other event and\/or transaction management environment. For example, the inventions provide electronic computer based systems, methods and techniques for matching, classifying, narrowcasting, and\/or selecting digital information describing people and\/or other things. This matching, classifying, narrowcasting, and\/or selecting can be based, at least in part, on elements of rights management information and\/or one or more other categories of information\u2014wherein such information is used for efficient, trusted event management assuring the execution of one or more controls related to, including, for example, consequences of processing such digital information describing people and\/or other things. The present inventions also provide systems and methods for efficiently determining class hierarchies, classification schemes, categories, and\/or category schemes and\/or the assignment of objects, persons and\/or things to said class hierarchies, classification schemes, categories, and\/or category schemes using at least some rights management information.","The modern world gives us a tremendous variety and range of options and choices. Cable and satellite television delivers hundreds of different television channels each carrying a different program. The radio dial is crowded with different radio stations offering all kinds of music, news, talk, and anything else one may care to listen to. The corner convenience store carries newspapers from around the country, and a well stocked newsstand allows you to choose between hundreds of magazines and publications about nearly every subject you can think of. Merchandise from all corners of the world is readily available at the shopping mall or by mail order. You can pay by check, in cash, or using any number of different kinds of credit cards and ATM cards.","This tremendous variety is good, but it also presents problems. Sometimes, it is hard or inefficient for us to find what we want and need because there are too many things to evaluate and choose from, and they are often located in too many places. We can waste a lot of time searching for the things we need or want at the right price, with the rights features, and at a particular time.","Sometimes, we never find things that satisfy what we feel we need or want. This happens when we don't know what to look for, how to look for it, or don't have the necessary assistance or tools to search successfully. For example, we may not know the best way of looking for something. Sometimes, we know what we are looking for but can't express or articulate it in ways that help us look. And sometimes, we don't even know what we are looking for. You may know you need something, know its missing, but never really know how to communicate to others what you are looking for. For example, someone who speaks only English may never find resources using Japanese or Spanish. In general, we often don't have the time or resources to look for all the things that would give us the most benefit or make us the most satisfied.","It's Hard to Find Mass Media Things you Want or Need.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 1A","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B"]},"Our Mail Overloads Us with Things We Don't Want or Need","The same thing can happen with information sent to us in the mail. It can be fun to receive some kinds of mail, such as personal letters, or magazines and catalogs on topics of personal interest. Certain other mail, such as bills, may not be fun but are usually important. Unfortunately, our mailboxes are typically overflowing with yet another kind of mail commonly referred to as \u201cjunk mail.\u201d The person in  finds his mailbox stuffed to the overflowing point with mail he never asked for and has absolutely no interest in. Most of this junk mail ends up unread and in the trash. However, it can take a long time to sort through all this mail to be sure you are only throwing out only the junk mail and not the good mail you are interested in or need. For example, it's sometimes hard to distinguish credit card bills from offers for new credit cards you don't need or want. Wouldn't it be useful if your mail could be automatically \u201ccleaned\u201d of the mail you had no interest in and you received only the mail you wanted or needed?","Sorting through things to identify things you might want, then selecting what you actually want, can be a frustrating and time consuming experience. For example, it wastes the time of the person who receives the junk mail, and it also wastes the time, money and effort of the people who spend their money to send mail to people hoping that they will buy their products.","As frustrating as finding and selecting may be to consumers, they often create even greater problems for businesses and people who want to locate or provide information, goods and services. It is often said, that in the world of business, \u201cInformation is Power\u201d and \u201cefficiency is the key to success.\u201d To find or sell the most relevant or useful information and to provide the ability to most efficiently allow business to operate at its best, we need easy-to-use tools that can help us navigate, locate, and select what matches our interests. In the modern world, it is often difficult to find out what different people like, and to supply people with the opportunity to select the best or most satisfying choices.","Past attempts outside the computer world to match up people with information, goods and\/or services have had limited success. For example, attempts to \u201ctarget\u201d mass mailings may increase the chance that they will go to people who are interested in them, but the entire process is still very wasteful and inefficient. It is considered a good success rate to match the interests of only a few percent of the recipients of \u201cjunk\u201d mail. Telemarketing campaigns that use the telephone to reach potential consumers can be very expensive, very annoying to consumers who are not interested in the products being marketed, and very costly and inefficient. A much more ideal situation for all concerned is enabling businesses to send information only to individual consumers likely to find the information interesting, desirable, convincing, and\/or otherwise useful. That way, businesses save time and money and consumers aren't unproductively hassled by information, phone calls, junk mail, junk e-mail and the like. However, right now it is extremely difficult to accomplish this goal, and so businesses continue to annoy consumers while wasting their own time, money, and effort.","Because of the Vast Amount of Information Available, Even Systems that Provide a High Degree of Organization May be Difficult to Use or Access","You can find yourself wasting a lot of time finding things\u2014even in places where finding things is supposed to be easy. For example, a library is a place where you can find all sorts of useful information but can also waste a lot of time trying to find what you are looking for. Modern libraries can be huge, containing tens or even hundreds of thousands or millions of different books, magazines, newspapers, video tapes, audio tapes, disks, and other publications. Most libraries have an electronic or manual card catalog that classifies and indexes all of those books and other materials. This classification system is useful, but it often has significant limitations.","For example, normally a card catalog will classify materials based only on a few characteristics (for example, general subject, author and title). The boy in  is looking for information on American League baseball teams during World War II for a high school report. The card catalog led to the general subject of baseball and other sports, but, looking at the catalog, he can't identify any books that seem to provide the specific information he wants to see, so he must rely on books classified as \u201chistories of sports\u201d or \u201chistories of baseball.\u201d He can spend lots of time looking through the books on the shelves, going back to the card catalog, and going back to the shelves before he finds a reference that's reasonably helpful. He may need to go ask an expert (the librarian) who is familiar with the books the library has on sports and may know where to look for the information. Even then, the boy may need to flip through many different books and magazines, and look in many different places within the library before he finds the information he is looking for.","Finding Products You Want or Need can be Very Difficult and Time Consuming","The same kind of frustrating experience can happen when you shop for a particular kind of item. While some people enjoy shopping, and have fun seeing what is in various stores, many people dislike spending time shopping, searching for the best or most affordable item. And sometimes even people who like to shop don't have the time to shop for a specific item.","For example, the man in  goes into a shopping mall looking for a tie to fit very tall people. He didn't wear a tie to work that day, but, at the last minute, an important meeting was scheduled for later that day and he needs to dress up. The shopping mall has a large variety of stores, each selling a range of merchandise. But the man may only have a short time to look. For example, he may be on his lunch break, and needs to get back to work soon. He can't spend a lot of time shopping. He may therefore need to rely on tools to help him identify where he wants to buy the tie. Perhaps he uses a mall directory that classifies the different stores in terms of what kinds of merchandise they sell (for example, clothing, books, housewares, etc.). Perhaps he asks at the malls help desk staffed by \u201cexperts\u201d who know what is available in the shopping mall. But even these resources may not tell him where to buy Italian silk ties that are discounted and cost $20. So he does the best he can with the available resources.","These Problems are Worse in the Digital World","The electronic or digital world offers a rapidly growing, vast array of electronically published products and services. For example, computer superstores have a dizzying array of different software products. Furthermore, music is now published primarily in digital form on optical disks, and video will soon be published that way too. And, of particular interest related to certain of the inventions described by this document, the Internet now has millions of home pages with an overwhelmingly variety and quantity of digital information, and, these millions of home pages, in turn, point or \u201clink\u201d to millions of other web pages as well.","Today, for example, you can use the Internet to:\n\n","Today on the Internet and you can also find nearly anything and everything you can possibly imagine, although finding exactly what you really want may be time consuming and frustrating. This is because the Internet and World Wide Web provide perhaps the best example of an environment that is particularly hard to navigate. There are an overwhelming number of choices\u2014too many to easily relate to or understand\u2014and many of which are terribly hard to find, even using the various Web searching \u201cengines.\u201d The Internet is particularly exciting because it has the potential to provide to nearly everyone access to nearly every kind of information. Information can also come from an almost limitless variety of sources. But today, so much information on the Internet is superficial or useless, and too many choices can be more a curse than a blessing if you don't have meaningful, easy ways to eliminate all but a relatively few choices. And the situation will only become much worse as more Web sites appear, and as digital information is distributed in \u201cobjects\u201d or \u201ccontainers\u201d providing enhanced security and privacy but possibly more difficult access and identifiability.","As time passes, more and more valuable and desirable information will be available in digital containers. However, unless tools are developed to solve the problem, there will be no efficient or satisfying means to sort through the potentially trillions of digital containers available on tens of millions of Web pages, to find containers satisfying a search or fulfilling an information need. Furthermore, existing information searching mechanisms typically provide no way to readily perform a search that matches against underlying commercial requirements of providers and users.","It Will be Difficult to Find Rights Management Scenarios Matching Your Requirements","If, for example, you have an auto repair newsletter and you want to create an article containing information on auto repair of Ford Bronco vehicles, you may wish to look for detailed, three dimensional, step-by-step \u201cblow-up\u201d mechanical images of Ford Bronco internal components. Perhaps these are available from hundreds of sources (including from private individuals using new, sophisticated rendering graphics programs, as well as from engineering graphics firms). Given the nature of your newsletter, you have decided that your use of such images should cost you no more than one penny to redistribute per copy in quantities of several thousand\u2014this low cost being particularly important since you will have numerous other costs per issue for acquiring rights to other useful digital information products which you reuse and, for example, enhance in preparing a particular issue. You therefore wish to search and match against rights management rules associated with such products\u2014non-limiting examples of which include:\n\n","If you can't match against your commercial requirements, you may be forced to waste enormous amounts of time sifting through all of the available products matching Ford Bronco internal components\u2014or you may settle for a product that is far less than the best available (settling on the first adequate product that you review).","Computers Don't Necessarily Make it Easier to Find Things","Anyone who has ever used the Internet or the World Wide Web knows that networks, computers and electronics, when used together, do not necessarily make the overall task of finding information easier. In fact, computers can make the process seem much worse. Most Internet users will probably agree that trying to find things you are interested on the Internet can be a huge time drain. And the results can be very unsatisfactory. The rapid growth rate of information available on the Web is continually making this process of finding desired information even harder. You can spend many hours looking for information on a subject that interests you. In most cases, you will eventually find some information of value\u2014but even using today's advanced computer search tools and on-line directories, it can take hours or days. With the advent of the technology advances developed by InterTrust Technologies Corp. and others, publishers will find it far more appealing to make their valuable digital information assets available on-line and to allow extractions and modifications of copyrighted materials that will vastly expand the total number of information objects. This will enormously worsen the problem, as the availability of valuable information products greatly expands.","It is Usually Hard to Find Things on the Internet","There are many reasons why it is difficult to find what you want on the Internet. One key reason is that, unlike a public library, for example, there is no universal system to classify or organize electronic information to provide information for matching with what's important to the person who is searching. Unlike a library, it is difficult on the Internet to efficiently browse over many items since the number of possible choices may be much larger than the number of books on a library shelves and since electronic classification systems typically do not provide much in the way of physical cues. For example, when browsing library shelves, the size of a book, the number of pictures in the book, or pictures on magazine covers may also help you find what you are interested in. Such physical cue information may be key to identifying desired selections from library resources. Unfortunately, most digital experiences typically do not provide such cues without actually loading and viewing the work in digital form.","Thus, another reason why the electronic or digital world can make it even harder to find information than ever before has to do with the physical format of the information. The digital information may provide few or no outward cues or other physical characteristics that could help you to even find out what it is\u2014let alone determine whether or not you are interested in it, unless such cues are provided through special purpose informational (for example, graphical) displays. On the Internet, everyone can be an electronic publisher, and everyone can organize their offerings differently\u2014using visual cues of their own distinctive design (e.g., location on a web page, organization by their own system for guiding choices). As one example, one publisher might use a special purpose graphical representation such as the video kiosk to support an electronic video store. Other publishers may use different graphical representations altogether.","Historically, there has been no particular need for consistent selection standards in conventional, non-electronic store based businesses. Indeed, it is often the unique display and choice selection support for customers' decision processes that make the difference between a successful store and a failure. But in the electronic world\u2014where your choice is not among a few stores but rather is a choice among potentially thousands or even millions of possibly useful web sites and truly vast numbers of digital containers\u2014the lack of a consistent system for describing commercially significant variables that in the \u201creal\u201d world may normally be provided by the display context and\/or customized information guidance resource (catalog book, location of goods by size, etc.) seriously undermines the ability of digital information consumers to identify their most desirable choices.","Adding to this absence of conventional cues, the enormity of available choices made available in cyberspace means that the digital information revolution, in order to be practical, must provide profoundly more powerful tools to filter potentially desirable opportunities from the over abundance of choices. In sum, the absence of the ability to efficiently filter from a dimensionally growing array of choices, can completely undermine the value of having such a great array of choices.","In the \u201creal\u201d world, commercial choices are based on going to the right \u201cstore\u201d and using the overall arrays of available information to identify one's selection. However, as information in digital and electronic form becomes more and more important, the problem of relating to the vast stores of information will become a nightmare. For example, picture yourself in a store where each shopping aisle is miles long, and each item on the shelf is packaged in the same size and color container. In an actual store, the product manufacturers put their products into brightly colored and distinctively shaped packages to make sure the consumer can readily find and select their product. These visual cues distinguish, for example, between a house brand and a specific name brand, between low fat and regular foods, and between family size and small size containers.","On the Internet, a digital \u201cstore\u201d is likely to be many stores with vast resources integrating products from many parties. If you were limited to conventional classification and matching mechanisms, you would be unable to sift through all the material to identify the commercially acceptable, i.e., an item representing the right information, at the right price, providing license rights that match your interests. Certainly, if each digital package looks the same, you are at a loss in making reasonable decisions. You can't tell one from another just by looking at it.","While information written on the \u201coutside\u201d of a digital package may be useful, you simply don't have the time to read all the packages, and anyway, each packager may use different words to describe the same thing and the descriptions may be difficult to understand. Some people may write a lot of information on the outside of their package, and others may write little or nothing on the outside of the package. If there is no universal system agreed upon by everyone for defining what information should be written on the outside of the package and how it should be formatted, using such a store would be painfully difficult even if you could limit the number of choices you were evaluating.","There is a Need for Efficient and Effective Selection Based, at Least in Part, on Rights Management Information","Unlike a real store where all breakfast cereals are shelved together and all soft drinks are in the same aisle, there may be no single, universal way to display the organization of all of the information in a \u201cdigital store\u201d since, by its nature, digital information frequently has many implications and associated rules. For example, there now exist highly developed rights management systems such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/388,107 of Ginter et al., filed Feb. 13, 1995, for \u201cSystems And Methods For Secure Transaction Management And Electronic Rights Protection (hereafter \u201cGinter et al\u201d)\u2014the entire disclosure (including the drawings) of which is expressly incorporated into this application as if expressly set forth herein. Many rules associated with any given piece of digital information may, combinatorially, given rise to many, very different, commercial contexts that will influence the use decisions of different potential users in many different ways (e.g., cost, auditing, re-use, redistribution, regulatory requirements, etc.).","No readily available systems developed for the digital information arena provide similarly satisfying means that describe the many commercial rules and parameters found in individual custom catalogs, merchandise displays, product specifications, and license agreements. Further, no readily available mechanisms allow \u201csurfing\u201d across vast choice opportunities where electronic matching can single out those few preferred items.","As one example, picking an appropriate image may involve any or all of the following:\n\n","No previously readily available technology allows one to efficiently make selections based on such criteria.","By their nature, and using the present inventions in combination with, amongst other things, \u201cGinter et al\u201d, the packages in a digital store may be \u201cvirtual\u201d in nature\u2014that is, they may be all mixed up to create many, differing products that can be displayed to a prospective customer organized in many different ways. This display may be a \u201cnarrowcasting\u201d to a customer based upon his matching priorities, available digital information resources (e.g., repository, property, etc.) and associated, available classification information. In the absence of an effective classification and matching system designed to handle such information, digital information of a particular kind might be just about anywhere in the store, and very difficult to find since the organization of the stores digital information resources have not been \u201cdynamically\u201d shaped to the matching interests of the potential customer.","These Inventions Solve These Problems","The present inventions can help to solve these problems. It can give you or help you to find the things you like, need or want. For example, it can deliver to you, (including narrowcasting to you), or help you to find:\n\n","The present inventions can expand your horizons by helping you to find interesting or important things, things that you enjoy, things that optimize your business efficiency, and things that help you make the best digital products or services you can\u2014even if you didn't know precisely what or how to look for what you may need. It can also help you by allowing things you didn't know existed or know enough to look for\u2014but that you may be interested in, want or need\u2014to find you.","The Present Inventions can Use \u201cMetaclasses\u201d to Take Multiple Classifications into Account","In some areas, multiple classifications may already exist and thus it is important for a consumer to be able to find what he or she is looking for while taking into account not only that there may be multiple classifications, but also that some classifications may be more authoritative than others. For example, Consumer Reports may be more authoritative on certain topics than more casual reviews published, for example, in the local weekly newspapers.","As another example, consider a book that rates restaurants according several factors, including, for example, quality, price, type of food, atmosphere, and location. In some locations there may be many guides, but they may review different sets of restaurants. One guide may rate a particular restaurant highly while one or more others may consider it average or even poor. Guides or other sources of ratings, opinions, evaluations, recommendations, and\/or value may not be equally authoritative, accurate, and\/or useful in differing circumstances. One consumer may consider a guide written by a particular renowned expert to be more authoritative, accurate, and\/or useful than a guide reflecting consumer polls or ballots. However, another consumer may prefer the latter because the second consumer may perceive the tastes of those contributing opinions to be closer to his or her own tastes than those of the experts.","In accordance with the present inventions, a person may be able to find a restaurant that meets specified criteria\u2014for example, the highest quality, moderately priced Cantonese and\/or Hunan Chinese food located in Boston or Atlanta\u2014while weighting the results of the search in favor of reviews from travel books rather than from the local newspapers. As this example indicates, the searching may be according to class of authoritative source (and\/or classes sources considered authoritative by the consumer) instead of weighting individual reviewers or sources. Thus in accordance with the present inventions, search may be performed at least in part based on classes of classes, or \u201cmetaclasses.\u201d","The Present Inventions can Make Choices Easier","One simple way to look at some examples of the present inventions is as a highly sensitive electronic \u201cmatchmaker\u201d that matches people or organizations with their best choices, or even selects choices automatically. The present inventions can match people and\/or organizations with things and\/or services, things with other things and\/or services, and\/or even people with other people. For example, the matching can be based on profiles that are a composite of preference profiles of one or more specific users, one or more user groups, and\/or organizations\u2014where the contribution of any given specific profile to the composite profile may be weighted according to the specific match circumstances such as the type and\/or purpose of a given match activity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},"For example, certain matching of facts that are maintained for authenticity may be first performed to narrow the search universe. Then, certain other matching of facts that are maintained for secrecy can be performed. For example, matching might be based on shared concerns such as where two parties who have a given disability (such as cancer or HIV infection) that is certified by an authority such as a physician who is certified to perform such certification; or the same income level and\/or bank account (as certified by an employer and\/or financial authority such as a bank). Some or all of such secret information may or may not be released to matched parties, as they may have authorized and\/or as may have been required by law when a match is achieved (which itself may be automatically managed within a protected processing environment through the use of controls contributed by a governmental authority).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},"The convenience of the \u201celectronic matchmaker\u201d provided in accordance with the present inventions extends to commerce in physical goods as well\u2014as illustrated in . In this non-limiting example, the electronic matchmaker is communicating to the consumer via the Internet and World Wide Web. The matchmaker has found the lowest quoted price for a Jeep sports utility model given, in this one example, a multitude of factors including:\n\n","Thus, the electronic matchmaker provided in accordance with these inventions can also match people with things.  shows two people, Harry and Tim. Harry loves sports most of all, but also wants to know a little about what is going on in the business world. The business world is most important to Tim, but he likes to keep up with the baseball scores. The electronic matchmaker in accordance with these inventions can learn about what Harry and Tim each like, and can provide information to a publisher so the publisher can narrowcast a newspaper or other publication customized for each of them. A newspaper company can narrowcast to Harry lots of sports information in his newspaper, and it can narrowcast to Tim mostly business information in his newspaper. In another example, Harry's newspaper may be uniquely created for him, differing from all other customized newspapers that emphasize sports over business information. But information that Harry and Tim respectively want to maintain as authentic or secret can be managed as such.","The electronic matchmaker can also match things with other things.  shows how the electronic matchmaker can help a student put together a school project about big cats. The electronic matchmaker can help the student locate and select articles and other material about various kinds of big cats. The electronic matchmaker can, for example, determine that different articles about tigers, lions and cheetahs are all about big cats\u2014but that articles about elephants and giraffes are not about big cats. If there is a charge for certain items, the electronic matchmaker can find only those items that the student can afford, and can make sure the student has the right to print pictures of the big cats. The electronic matchmaker can help the student to collect this information together so the student can make a colorful poster about big cats.","The electronic matchmaker can match up all sorts of different kinds of things.  shows the electronic matchmaker looking at three different objects. The matchmaker can determine that even though objects A and C are not identical, they are sufficiently similar that they should be grouped together for a certain purpose. The electronic matchmaker can determine that for this purpose, object B is too different and should not be grouped with objects A and C. For a different purpose, the electronic matchmaker may determine that objects A, B and C ought to be grouped together.","The Present Inventions can Make Use of Rights Management Information","How does the electronic matchmaker find out the information it needs to match or classify people and things? In accordance with a feature provided by these inventions, the electronic matchmaker gets information about people and things by using automated, computerized processes. Those processes can use a special kind of information sometimes known as rights management information. Rights management information may include electronic rules and\/or their consequences. The electronic matchmaker can also use information other than rights management information.","An example of rights management information includes certain records about what a computer does and how it does it. In one simple example, records may give permission to read a particular news article if that the customer is willing to pay a nickel to purchase the article and that the nickel may be paid using a budget provided by a credit card company or with electronic cash. A customer might, for example, seek only news articles from providers that take electronic cash and\/or process information with a certain information clearinghouse as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/699,712 to Shear et al., filed Aug. 12, 1996, for \u201cTrusted Infrastructure Support Systems, Methods And Techniques For Secure Electronic Commerce Electronic Transactions And Rights Management\u201d (hereafter \u201cShear et al\u201d)\u2014the entire disclosure (including the drawings) of which is expressly incorporated into this application as if expressly set forth herein.","The Present Inventions can Maintain Privacy",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},"For example, the questionnaire may ask Jill whether she likes baseball and whether she is interested in volcanoes. The electronic matchmaker can also ask Jill if it is okay to look at records her computer maintains about what she has used her computer for in the past. These computer records (which the computer can maintain securely so that no one can get to them without Jill's permission) can keep a history of everything Jill has looked at using her computer over the past month and\/or other time period\u2014this process being managed, for example, through the use of a system such as described in the \u201cGinter et al.\u201d","Looking at , Jill may have used her computer last week to look at information about baseball, volcanoes and Jeeps. With Jill's permission, the electronic matchmaker can employ a protected processing environment  (schematically shown here as a tamper-resistant \u201cchip\u201d within the computer\u2014but it can be hardware-based, software-based, or a combination of hardware and software) to look at the computer's history records and use them to help match Jill up with other kinds of things she is or may be interested in. For example, the electronic matchmaker can let an electronic publisher or other provider or information gatherer (e.g., market survey conductor, etc.) know that Jill is interested in team sports, geology and sports utility vehicles with or without more revealing detail\u2014as managed by Jill's choices and\/or rights management rules and controls executing in her computer's protected processing environment . The provider can send information to Jill\u2014either automatically or at Jill's request\u2014about other, related things that Jill may be interested in.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},"The electronic matchmaker can, with and subject to Jill's permission, look at and analyze this information. As one example, the electronic matchmaker can analyze relevant rules and controls provided by third parties who have rights in such information\u2014where such rules are controlled, for example, by Jill's computer's protected processing environment . It can also look at and analyze Jill's response to computer questionnaires indicating that she likes baseball and football. The electronic matchmaker can, based on all of this information, automatically select and obtain videos and\/or other publications for Jill about team sports and that cost less than $10 and that accept payment using a Discover card, so that Jill can preview and select those in which she may have a particular interest and desire to acquire.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0096"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},"The present inventions provide great increases in efficiency and convenience. It can save you a lot of time and effort. It can allow computers to do a lot of the work so you don't have to. It can allow you to compete with larger businesses\u2014and allow large business to function more efficiently\u2014by allowing the location of resources particularly appropriate for certain business activities. You can delegate certain complex tasks to a computer, freeing you to be more productive and satisfied with electronic activities. These automated processes can be \u201csmart\u201d without being intrusive. For example, they can learn about your behavior, preferences, changing interests, and even your personality, and can then predict your future interests based on your past behavior and interest expressions. These processes can ensure confidentiality and privacy\u2014so that no one can find out detailed information about you without your consent. Across the full range of personal and business activities, the present inventions allow a degree of basic efficiency, including automation and optimization of previously very time consuming activities, so that interests and possible resources are truly best matched.","The present inventions handle many kinds of important issues and addresses the widest range of information and rights and automation possibilities. For example, the present inventions are capable of handling (but are not limited to):\n\n","It can reflect and employ all kinds of rights to optimize matching processes, including:\n\n","It can employ all kinds of parameter information, including:\n\n","Pricing (for example the price of a specific item) can be used in matching based upon price per unit and\/or total price for a volume purchase, price for renting, right to redistribute, cost for redistributing items, etc.","Privacy can be used for establishing matching contingent upon usage reporting requirements for viewing, printing, extracting, dedistributing, listening, payment, and\/or requiring the reporting of other information such as personal demographics such as credit worthiness, stored value information, age, sex, marital status, race, religion, and\/or usage based generated profiling information based materially upon, for example, a users history of usage of electronic content and\/or commercial transactions, etc.","Identity can be used for matching based upon, for example, such as the presence of one or more specific, class, and\/or classes of certificates, including, for example, specific participant and\/or group of participant, including value chain certificates as described in \u201cShear et al\u201d.","With the inventions described herein, commercial requirement attributes embodied in rules (controls and control parameter data) are employed in classification structures that are referenced by search mechanisms, either, for example, directly through reading rule information maintained in readable (not encrypted) but authentic (protected for integrity) form, through reading rule information maintained securely, through processes employing a protected processing environment  of a VDE node, and\/or through the creation of one or more indexes and\/or like purpose structures, that, directly, and\/or through processes employing a protected processing environment , automatically compile commercial and other relevant (e.g., societal regulatory information such as a given jurisdiction's copyright, content access and\/or taxation regulations) for classification\/matching purposes.","The present inventions can employ computer and communication capabilities to identify information, including:\n\n","The present inventions thus provide for optimal user, provider, and societal use of electronic cyberspace resources (for example, digital information objects available across the Internet, sent by direct broadcast satellite, transmitted over a cable TV system, and\/or distributed on optical disk).","Of particular importance is the notion of classes of content, classes of users, and classes of providers. For example, the present inventions can make use of any\/all of the following:\n\n","The classification, matching, narrowcasting, analysis, profiling, negotiation, and selection capabilities of the present inventions include the following capabilities (listed items are not mutually exclusive of each other but exemplary samples):\n\n","The above capabilities, and others described in this application, are often ideally managed by distributed commerce nodes of a distributed, rights management environment embedded in or otherwise connected to the operating system clients of a distributed computing environment such as described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d and further described in \u201cShear et al\u201d, and employing, for example, rules, integrity management, container, negotiation, clearinghouse services, and trusted processing capabilities described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d and \u201cShear et al\u201d.","The Present Inventions Make Use of Many Kinds of Information and\/or Data","As discussed above, these inventions provide, among other things, matching, classification, narrowcasting, and\/or selection based on rights management and other information. In particular preferred examples, these matching, classification, narrowcasting, and\/or selection processes and\/or techniques may be based at least in part on rights management information. The rights management information may be an input to the process, it may be an output from the process, and\/or the process can be controlled at least in part by rights management information. Information in addition to, or other than, rights management information may also be an input, an output, and\/or a basis for controlling, the process and\/or techniques.","Rights management information may be directly or indirectly inputted to the matching, classification and\/or selection process. For example, rights management controls, rules and\/or their consequences may be an input. Examples of such controls and\/or rules include object registration related control set data, user related control set data and\/or computer related control set data. In addition or alternatively, information provided based on control sets or rules and their consequences may be inputted. The following are examples of such information that may be provided based, for example, on rules and consequences:\n\n","The processes, techniques and\/or systems provided in accordance with these inventions may output rights management related information such as, for example:\n\n","In accordance with various preferred embodiments provided by these inventions, information other than rights management information may also be used, at least in part, as an input, output and\/or to control the matching, classification, narrowcasting, and\/or selection processes, systems and\/or techniques. Examples of such information include:\n\n","Systems, methods and techniques provided in accordance with these inventions can classify a variety of types of things including, for example:\n\n","The matching, classifying and\/or selecting processes provided in accordance with these inventions are very flexible and useful. For example, they may be used to associate people with information, information with other information, people with other people, appliances with people, appliances with information, and appliances with other appliances. The present inventions in their preferred examples can associate any kind of information, object or thing with any other kind of information, object or thing.","Different Associations Between Classes and Rights","The processes, systems and\/or techniques provided in accordance with these inventions can provide and\/or take into account many different kinds of associations between classes and rights. For example, they can look at what rights are available to a user, computer, data structure or any other object. They can also look to rights selected by an object (for example, the subset of rights a user has chosen or otherwise identified). Alternatively or in addition, they can look to rights that have been exercised by a user or in conjunction with an object or other thing, and they can look to the consequences of exercising such a right(s).","Embodiments in Accordance with the Present Inventions can be Used to Define Classes Based on Uni-dimensional and\/or Multi-dimensional Attributes and\/or Characteristics","Example processes, systems and\/or techniques provided in accordance with these inventions can be used to define classes based on uni-dimensional and\/or multi-dimensional attributes and\/or characteristics. Any one or more attributes can be used. The attributes and\/or characteristics can be flexibly defined. They may define groups or classes containing elements sharing certain attributes in common. There can, for example, be a spectrum of classification that takes into account gray areas as to whether a particular person or thing possesses a certain one or a number of particular attributes and\/or characteristics. Or classification may have a higher degree of certainty or definition. For example, a process can test to determine whether particular people or things are inside or outside of particular classes or groups based on one or a number of attributes or characteristics (for example, whether you live in Denver, are under the age of 25 and are single). In accordance with additional specific features provided by these inventions, there may be a minimum number of different classes set up to \u201ccover\u201d a particular situation\u2014with every person or thing either being within or outside of a given, disjoint class or group.","Preferred Examples in Accordance with the Present Inventions are Extensible to Accommodate Changing Conditions","The systems, methods and\/or techniques provided by these inventions are extensible to accommodate changing conditions. For example, they can be made to readily adapt to changes in rules, consequences, topics, areas and\/or subjects pertaining to groups such as, for example categories, and any other variable. Furthermore, partially and\/or entirely new variables may be introduced to one or more existing sets of variables\u2014for example, to extend or otherwise modify a model to account for additional variables, to apply a new strategy, to adapt to new network and\/or installation circumstances, to adapt to new user factors, to change analysis and\/or other processing characteristics, and so on.","Preferred Examples in Accordance with the Present Inventions are Compatible with Pre-Existing or any New Classification Techniques or Arrangements","The example systems, methods and\/or techniques provided by these inventions can be made fully compatible with any classification and\/or categorization means, method, process, system, technique, algorithm, program, and\/or procedure, presently known or unknown, for determining class and\/or category structures, definitions, and\/or hierarchies, and\/or the assignment of at least one object, person, thing, and\/or member to at least one class and\/or category, that without limitation may be:\n\n","For example, classification can be performed using any or all of the following example classification techniques:\n\n","Systems, methods and\/or techniques provided in accordance with these inventions build upon and can work with the arrangements disclosed in \u201cGinter et al\u201d; \u201cShear et al\u201d; and other technology related to transaction and\/or rights management, security, privacy and\/or electronic commerce.","For example, the present inventions can make particular use of the security, efficiency, privacy, and other features and advantages provided by the Virtual Distribution Environment described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d.","As another example, a matching and classification arrangement can be constructed as a distributed commerce utility system as described in \u201cShear et al\u201d. The present inventions can work with other distributed commerce utility systems, and can enhance or be a part of other commerce utility systems.","By way of non-exhaustive, more specific examples, the present inventions can be used in combination with (and\/or make use of) any or all of the following broad array of electronic commerce technologies that enable secure, distributed, peer-to-peer electronic rights, event, and\/or transaction management capabilities:\n\n","Any or all of these features may be used in combination with the inventions disclosed herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0412"},"figref":["FIGS. 5\u201312","FIGS. 5\u201312"],"b":"900"},"Example Matching and Classification Utility",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0413"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"900","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0040","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0040-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0041","list-style":"none"},"li":["an object classifier ;","a user (people) classifier ; and","a matching engine ."]}}}},"Object classifier  classifies things. User classifier  classes people. Matching engine  matches things with other things, things with people, and\/or people with other people.","In more detail, object classifier  receives information about objects and uses that information to classify those objects into groups based on the qualities or characteristics of the objects. For example, the object classifier  may classify objects of the type described in in \u201cGinter et al\u201d. Such objects may comprise information and\/or associated rules for using the information. For example, object classifier  may receive as inputs:\n\n","Object classifier  classifies and\/or selects things based at least in part on these inputs.","In this example, user classifier  is a type of object classifier that is specially adapted to classify people. User classifier  can classify people based, for example, on:\n\n","User classifier  classifies and\/or selects people based at least in part on these inputs.","Matching engine  receives, as inputs, the classifications and\/or selections made by the object classifier  and\/or the user classifier . Matching engine  matches things with things, things with people and\/or people with people (or any combination of these) based on these selection and\/or classification inputs.","Example More Detailed Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0432"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["900","900"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0046","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0046-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0047","list-style":"none"},"li":["objects  and\/or information about objects including controls  and\/or object descriptors ;","content ;","audit trail information ;","user information such as profiles ;","class information ;","user information ;","other rights management information ;","matching criteria ;","selection criteria ; and\/or","other information."]}}}},"Matching and classification utility  in this example can provide a variety of different outputs including, for example, some or all of the following:\n\n","In the preferred embodiment, matching and classification utility  is constructed as a commerce utility system  as described in \u201cShear et al\u201d, and may comprise one or more processes securely distributed over one or more secure electronic appliances within a \u201cVirtual Distribution Environment\u201d as described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d. Furthermore, the present inventions can be used in combination with and\/or make use of a wide array of distributed electronic administrative and support services that may be referred to as the \u201cDistributed Commerce Utility.\u201d Such a Distributed Commerce Utility may be, among other things, an integrated, modular array of administrative and support services for electronic commerce and electronic rights and transaction management. The Distributed Commerce Utility provides, among other advantages, comprehensive, integrated administrative and support services for secure electronic commerce and other forms of electronic interaction. These administrative and support services can be used to supply a secure foundation for conducting financial management, rights management, certificate authority, rules clearing, usage clearing, secure directory services, and other transaction related capabilities functioning over a vast electronic network such as the Internet and\/or over organization internal. Intranets, or even in-home networks of electronic appliances. Such electronic interactions supported by the Distributed Commerce Utility may, for example, entail the broadest range of appliances and distribution media, non-limiting examples of which include networks and other communications channels, consumer appliances, computers, convergent devices such as WebTV, and optical media such as CD-ROM and DVD in all their current and future forms.","These administrative and support services can, for example, be adapted to the specific needs of electronic commerce value chains in any number of vertical markets, including a wide variety of entertainment applications. Electronic commerce participants can, for example, use these administrative and support services to support their interests, and\/or they can shape and reuse these services in response to competitive business realities. Non-exhaustive examples of electronic commerce participants include individual creators, film and music studios, distributors, program aggregators, broadcasters, and cable and satellite operators.","The Distributed Commerce Utility can, for example, make optimally efficient use of commerce administration resources, and can, in at least some embodiments, scale in a practical fashion to optimally accommodate the demands of electronic commerce growth. The Distributed Commerce Utility may, for example, comprise a number of Commerce Utility Systems. These Commerce Utility Systems can provide a web of infrastructure support available to, and reusable by, the entire electronic community and\/or many or all of its participants. Different support functions can, for example, be collected together in hierarchical and\/or in networked relationships to suit various business models and\/or other objectives. Modular support functions can, for example, be combined in different arrays to form different Commerce Utility Systems for different design implementations and purposes. These Commerce Utility Systems can, for example, be distributed across a large number of electronic appliances with varying degrees of distribution.","Such a \u201cDistributed Commerce Utility\u201d provides numerous additional capabilities and benefits that can be used in conjunction with the particular embodiments shown in the drawings of this application, non-exhaustive examples of which include:\n\n","Any or all of these features may be used in combination with the inventions disclosed herein.","In more detail, as shown in , matching and classification utility  may include one or more rights operating system layers -; one or more commerce utility support service layers -; one or more service application connect layers -; and one or more service functions -B. One or more protected processing environments  may be used to support secure functions -D. Matching and classification utility  may be controlled, at least in part, by rights management information such as for example:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0485"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":"900","ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0054","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0054-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0055","list-style":"none"},"li":["financial clearinghouses ,","usage clearinghouses ,","rights and permissions clearinghouses ,","certifying authorities ,","secure directory services ,","transaction authorities ,","VDE administrators , and\/or","other commerce utility systems ."]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0494"},"figref":"FIGS. 15A\u201315G","b":["900","90"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0495"},"figref":"FIG. 15A","b":["900","200","900","200"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0056","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0056-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0057","list-style":"none"},"li":["requests for information,","class information such as classes and\/or class assignments,","bills and charges, and\/or","other information."]}}}},"Financial clearinghouse  may send matching and classification utility :\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0506"},"figref":"FIG. 15B","b":["900","300","900","300"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0060","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0060-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0061","list-style":"none"},"li":["requests for information,","class information such as classes and\/o class assignments,","audit information, and\/or","other information."]}}}},"Matching and classification utility  may receive from usage clearinghouse :\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0516"},"figref":"FIG. 15C","b":["900","400","400","900"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0064","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0064-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0065","list-style":"none"},"li":["controls sets and\/or object information;","requests for class information;","clearinghouse usage data; and\/or","other information."]}}}},"In this example, matching and classification utility  sends the rights and permissions clearinghouse :\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0526"},"figref":"FIG. 15D","b":["900","500","500","900"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0068","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0068-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0069","list-style":"none"},"li":["revocation lists,","certificates,","certifying authority usage information,","requests for classification information, and\/or","other information."]}}}},"In this example, the matching and classification utility  sends the certifying authority :\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0120","num":"0538"},"figref":"FIG. 15E","b":["900","600","900","600"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0072","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0072-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0073","list-style":"none"},"li":["directory lookup information,","class related information such as classes and\/or class assignments,","requests for information, and\/or","other information."]}}}},"In this example, the secure directory services  sends the matching and classification utility :\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0548"},"figref":"FIG. 15F","b":["900","700","900","700"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0076","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0076-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0077","list-style":"none"},"li":["class related information such as classes and\/or class assignments,","requests for transaction usage information,","requests for control sets, and\/or","other information."]}}}},"In this example, the transaction authority  sends the matching and classification utility :\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0558"},"figref":"FIG. 15G","b":["900","800","900","800"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0080","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0080-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0081","list-style":"none"},"li":["requests for administration,","class related information such as classes and\/or class assignments,","requests for node and\/or web information, and\/or","other information."]}}}},"In this example, the VDE administrator  sends the matching and classification utility :\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0568"},"figref":"FIG. 16A","b":["900","900","90","90","154","156","158","160","154","156","158","160"]},"In one example arrangement, the Commerce Utility Systems  to which authority has been delegated may perform substantially all of the actual support work, but may keep the delegating Commerce Utility Systems  informed through reporting or other means. In another arrangement, the delegating Commerce Utility Systems  have no involvement whatsoever with day to day activities of the Commerce Utility Systems to whom they have delegated work. In still another example arrangement, the more specialized Commerce Utility Systems do some of the work and the more overarching Commerce Utility Systems do other parts of the work. The particular division of work and authority used in a particular scenario may largely depend on factors such as efficiency, trustedness, resource availability, the kinds of transactions being managed, and a variety of other factors. Delegation of clearing authority may be partial (e.g., delegate usage aggregation but not financial or rights management responsibilities), and may be consistent with peer-to-peer processing (e.g., by placing some functions within consumers' electronic appliances while keeping some other functions centralized).","Matching and Classification Utilities can Provide Services to Classes of Nodes, Users, Content Services and\/or Transaction Services",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0570"},"figref":"FIG. 16B","b":["900","900","1","900","900","1","900","2","900","3","900","900"]},"Multi-function Commerce Utility Systems can be Organized Hierarchically or Peer-to-peer",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0571"},"figref":["FIG. 16C","FIG. 16C"],"b":["900","900","900","1","1","2","3","4","5","900"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0084","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0084-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0085","list-style":"none"},"li":["a Matching and classification utility system ()() may be a \u201ctype A\u201d Matching and classification utility system,","Matching and classification utility system ()() might be a \u201ctype B\u201d Matching and classification utility system, and","Matching and classification utility system ()() might be a \u201ctype C\u201d Matching and classification utility system."]}}}},"On the next level down, Matching and classification utility systems might be type A Matching and classification utility system (such as, ()() and ()()), they might be type B Matching and classification utility systems (such as, ()()), they might be type C Matching and classification utility systems (such as, ()(), ()()), or they might be hybrids\u2014such as, Matching and classification utility system ()() which is a hybrid having type A and type B functions.  also shows that additional clearinghouses on levels  and  might have sub-types as well as types.","A matching and classification utility  might break out along content classes (e.g., movies; scientific, technical and medical; and software). Subtype A might include first run movies, oldies, and art films; subtype B might handle journals and textbooks; and type C might be responsible for games, office, educational content. Peer-to-peer communications between clearinghouses could involve differing classes of consumers, differing jurisdictional classes, differing payment methods classes, and\/or any other class distinction.","Matching and Classification Utility System can be Constructed from Object-oriented Service Functions",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0577"},"figref":["FIG. 14A","FIG. 17"],"b":["900","900"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0086","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0086-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0087","list-style":"none"},"li":["automatic class generation,","automatic matching,","automatic class assignment,","class based searching,","class based directory,","audit by class,","market research,","rights management language processing,","other service functions.\n\nExample Detailed Steps Carried Out by Matching and Classification Utility System \n"]}}}},"The next section of the specification describes some example steps performed by the matching and classification utility .","Example Steps to Categorize Objects and\/or Users and\/or Appliances",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0588"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIGS. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 18","FIG. 19","FIG. 18","FIG. 19"],"b":["95","100","1840","1840","1842","1842","1844","1846","1844","1846","1848","1848","1849","1849","1850","1850"]},"The \u201cget input data\u201d step , \u2032 may involve obtaining attribute and\/or parameter data from various sources including, for example:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0136","num":"0597"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 20"],"b":["1852","1852","95","1852","100","1852","1852"]},"The  example cluster analysis process is one example of steps that may be performed as part of the \u201capply classification method(s)\u201d block , \u2032 of , . (A classification method, or any other method described in these processes, may be utilized as part of a \u201cknowbot\u201d, \u201cagent\u201d, \u201ctraveling agent\u201d, and\/or \u201csmart agent\u201d, a non-limiting example of which is described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d, for example, .) In this particular example, the process selects variables and cases (blocks , , ), and then assembles an appropriate data matrix (block ). A conventional cluster analysis is then applied (block , ). The clusters may be interpreted to determine what they mean (, block ), or they may be compared with previous results and if sufficiently similar, they may be assumed to reflect the same classes as the earlier classification procedure thus minimizing the need for additional interpretation of the clustering results. Step  may be performed automatically or manually, or a combination of automatic and manual processing may be used. Finally, individual cases may be assigned to individual clusters to complete the classification process (, block ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0599"},"figref":["FIGS. 22","FIG. 21","FIG. 22"],"b":"23"},"In example , members of class  tend to spend more per content item purchased, travel abroad more frequently, are more interested in national and international news, business and travel information, and generally do not participate in \u201cpay per view\u201d events and\/or content consumption. Members of class  also tend to add new rights and\/or modify existing rights management controls for content, for instance, to add a markup and redistribute the content in one example, may be less likely to express a religious preference and\/or affiliation, and tend to use the Internet as an area for \u201csurfing\u201d and exploration.","Members of class  tend to pay less for content purchased, seldom travel abroad, tend to be interested in sports, religious content and events, and are more often consumers of movies than are members of class . Members of class  are more likely to \u201cpay per view\u201d than are members of class , and are much less likely to add new controls to content and\/or modify rights acquired. Members of class  are more likely to express a religious preference and among those that do, Protestant denominations are more frequently mentioned. Members of class  may use the Internet, but tend to do so as part of their work role and responsibilities rather than as entertainment, hobbies, and other leisure-time pursuits.","Some methods of classification produce parameter data rather than assignment of objects to more discrete (or fizzy or other kinds of) classes. Instead, this parameter data may indicate the extent to which an object possesses one or more traits, attributes, or class characteristics. For instance, a person may have been assigned to class  (call it \u201cthe cosmopolitan class\u201d) or class  (call it \u201cthe parochial class\u201d) as shown in ; however, using other procedures the same example persons may be assigned parameter data reflecting the extent or degree to which they are \u201ccosmopolitan\u201d or \u201cparochial\u201d or some of each.","In the example process that generates the information shown in , data for several individuals has been arranged in a case (row) by variable (column) matrix and using means known to those skilled in the arts, subjected to principal components analysis with subsequent Varimax axis rotation. Components with eigenvalues >1.0 were retained for subsequent rotation and use. After rotation, each case was assigned a score on each retained (and rotated) component. Each score indicates the extent to which the case has the characteristic represented by the component.","The hypothetical data in  shows how strongly each variable (the column of the input matrix) is correlated with the underlying characteristic or component. For example, \u201cregion of the US\u201d and \u201cFamily income\u201d are highly correlated while \u201cowns a sports utility vehicle\u201d is not.","Using results such as these plus the input data matrix, a score is assigned to each case indicating the extent to which they posses the trait, attribute, characteristic indicated by each factor or component. The hypothetical data in  shows how strongly each case\u2014a person or thing\u2014is a member of the class, and\/or possesses the underlying variable represented by each component. A higher score shows that example case  has more of the underlying component  than does example case , whose score is close to zero. Components (factors) may be bipolar with a zero point and cases whose scores may be positive, negative or zero. Hypothetical example case  has a negative score on this component.","This component score information may be used by the matching and classification utility  to define certain other classes, such as \u201cthe class consisting of the top 5% of those who are cosmopolitan,\u201d that is, the 5% with the highest scores on example component . The original scores and\/or derivative class assignments may be included on attribute records with attribute and\/or class information harvested from other sources and\/or through other processes.","Data Harvesting","Example Steps for Collecting Appliance Related Data",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0146","num":"0607"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 24","FIG. 24"],"b":["900","100","800","100","900","900","1502","900","900"]},"The matching and classification utility  next determines whether it already possesses the desired information for this particular appliance  (, block ). For example, the information may have been previously gathered as part of a prior process. If the information is already available, the matching and classification utility  sends one or more events to a \u201ccreate appliance attribute record\u201d method to process the previously gathered data (, block ). (In all these processes, if the appropriate method is has been sent previously to a VDE installation, only the associated administrative events necessary to activate the method need to be sent in the VDE container.) Alternatively, if the desired data is not already available (\u201cno\u201d exit to decision block , ), the matching and classification utility  performs the other steps shown in  to collect the appliance attribute data.","These collecting steps shown in  may include sending a VDE container  with a \u201ccreate appliance attribute record\u201d method, and one or more associated administrative events to activate the method, to the VDE administrator  (, block ). The next step (, block ) may be performed by the VDE administrator  processing the administrative event(s) using the \u201ccreate appliance attribute record\u201d method to determine whether the administrator already has the desired information for the particular electronic appliance . If the operation is successful (\u201cyes\u201d exit to decision block , ), the VDE administrator  may send, to the matching and classification utility , a VDE container  containing one or more administrative events and the appliance attribute record (, block ). If the operation is not successful (\u201cno\u201d exit to decision block , ), the \u201ccreate appliance attribute record\u201d method operating at VDE administrator  may, in this example, collect the data directly from the electronic appliance  by sending a VDE container to the appliance, the container containing a \u201ccreate appliance attribute record\u201d method and one or more associated administrative events (, block ). The appliance  may itself process the administrative event(s) using the \u201ccreate appliance attribute record\u201d method (, block ) to produce the required appliance attribute record. Appliance  may then send a VDE container  containing the appropriate administrative event(s) and the appliance attribute record to the matching and classification utility  (, block ).","In another example, blocks \u2013 may be bypassed entirely, and the matching and classification utility  may (assuming appropriate authorizations are in place) perform block  to send a container  with one or more administrative events and the \u201ccreate appliance attribute record\u201d method directly to the electronic appliance .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0150","num":"0611"},"figref":["FIGS. 25(A) and 25(B)","FIG. 24","FIG. 24A","FIG. 24A","FIG. 25A","FIG. 25A","FIG. 25A","FIG. 25A","FIG. 25A"],"b":["1506","1510","1518","900","800","100","1522","1523","1524","1524","154","1525","1526","1524","1527"]},"After completing processing of site configuration records, the method then locates the user configuration record(s) corresponding to the electronic appliance for which appliance attribute data is to be collected (, block ). This user configuration record(s) may, for example, be stored in the electronic appliance secure database. The protected processing environment  next locates the permissions record for the user configuration record(s) (, block ). The protected processing environment  determines next, based upon the permission record(s), whether it has permission to access and\/or use the user configuration record(s) (, block ). If the method does not have the appropriate permission (\u201cno\u201d exit to decision block , ), the protected processing environment  reports the failure and reason for the failure, and the method writes an associated audit record (, block , ) and exits the process. On the other hand, if the method does have permission to use the user configuration record(s) (\u201cyes\u201d exit to decision block , ), the method copies the required fields from the user configuration record(s) to create an appliance attribute record, and may then write an appropriate audit record (, block ). The method may then, if desired, create a new permissions record corresponding to the appliance attribute record (, block ). If a new permissions record is desired, the method may include appropriate \u201cshared secrets,\u201d expiration interval(s), and\/or other data in an associated MDE to, for example, provide a basis for controlling access, use, and modification of the permissions record.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0152","num":"0613"},"figref":["FIGS. 26A\u201326C","FIG. 25B","FIG. 26A","FIG. 26B","FIG. 26C"],"b":["1532","1536","1","1538","1","1538","1536","1","1538","1538","1538","1538","1538","1538","1538"]},"Example Steps for Collecting Demographic Data",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0153","num":"0614"},"figref":["FIGS. 27A","FIG. 27A","FIG. 27A","FIG. 27A","FIG. 27A"],"b":["27","900","1540","900","95","1542","1542","900","1544"]},"On the other hand, if the required data is not available to the matching and classification utility (\u201cno\u201d exit to decision block , ), the matching and classification utility may send a container  to another commerce utility system , the container including one or more administrative events associated with a \u201cdemographic data query\u201d method and a \u201ccreate demographic attribute record\u201d method (, block ). The other commerce utility system  may then process the one or more events using the \u201cdemographic data query\u201d method, and write an associated audit record (, block ). It may determine whether the required demographic data is available (, block ). If the information is available (\u201cyes\u201d exit to decision block , ), the commerce utility system  may process one or more events using a \u201ccreate demographic attribute record\u201d method in order to analyze the available demographic data, and write a corresponding UDE audit record (, block ). The other commerce utility system  may then send appropriate one or more administrative events and the demographic data attribute record within a container  to the matching and classification utility  (, block )).","If the required demographic data is not available (\u201cno\u201d exit to decision block , ), the commerce utility system  may send an administrative event to the matching and classification utility system  within a container  informing the matching and classification utility that the required data is not available (, block ). The matching and classification utility  may then send a \u201cdemographic data query\u201d method and a \u201ccreate demographic attribute record\u201d method within a container  (along with appropriate administrative events to activate such methods) directly to the user  about which demographic information is to be collected (, block ). The user's electronic appliance  may, in response, process the one or more events using the \u201cdemographic data query\u201d method, which may write an associated audit record (, block ). If the required data is not collected (\u201cno\u201d exit to decision block , , the user's appliance  may send a \u201cfailure\u201d message associated with the appropriate administrative event to the matching and classification utility , and write an associated audit record (, block , ). If the required demographic data is successfully collected (\u201cyes\u201d exit to decision block , ), the user's electronic appliance may process one or more events using the \u201ccreate demographic record\u201d method supplied by step , which may write an associated audit record (, block ). The electronic appliance may then send appropriate administrative events and the demographic attribute record to the matching and classification utility within one or more containers  (, block ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0617"},"figref":["FIG. 28","FIG. 27A","FIG. 27B"],"b":["100","1548","1560","95","100"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0090","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0090-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0091","list-style":"none"},"li":["name","address","city","state","zip code","gender","date of birth","education level","marital status","number of children","age of first child","gender of first child","other information\n\nThe user is requested to provide the information by filling in the various fields within the questionnaire. The questionnaire may assure the user that all information the user provides will be treated as confidential, by, for example, disclosing the rules that will be associated with access to and use of the information.\n"]}}}},"Steps similar to those shown in , B may be performed to create a demographic attribute record based on the results of a demographic data query.  show examples of different user demographic attribute information records resulting from this process.  shows an example demographic attribute record  including a user ID field  and any number of attribute fields (), . . . (n).  shows a more specific example of a demographic attribute record including, for example, a user ID number , a gender attribute field (A), an age field (B), a highest educational level field (C), a citizenship field (D), a country of residence field (E), a district field (F), a city field (G), and a street address field (H).  shows a different detailed encoding example for demographic attribute record -.","Example Steps for Collecting Psychographic Data",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0158","num":"0632"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30","FIG. 30"],"b":["900","1580","900","1582","1582","900","1584","900","1582","900","152","1586","1588","1586","900","1590","900","152","1592"]},"If the required data is not available from the repository (\u201cno\u201d exit to decision block , ), then the repository may send a \u201cfailure\u201d message associated with one or more administrative events to the matching and classification utility  within a container  (, block ). The matching and classification utility  may, in response, send one or more administrative events, a \u201ccollect psychographic data\u201d and \u201ccreate psychographic attribute record\u201d method directly to the user's electronic appliance  within one or more containers  (, block ). The user's electronic appliance  may, in turn, process the events using the \u201ccollect psychographic data\u201d and \u201ccreate psychographic attribute record\u201d methods (, block , ), and send the resulting attribute data record(s) to the matching and classification utility (, block ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0160","num":"0634"},"figref":["FIG. 31","FIG. 30"],"b":["95","1598"],"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0092","list-style":"none"},"li":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0092-0001","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0093","list-style":"none"},"li":["mood information","emotion information","habit information","behavioral information","cognitive information","medical information","physical information","patient information","counseling information","aptitude information","testing information","other information","combinations of types of information.\n\nThe questionnaire may inform the user that all information collected will be treated as \u201cconfidential,\u201d and may also, if desired, indicate that the user will be compensated for providing the information.\n"]}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0161","num":"0648"},"figref":["FIGS. 32A\u201332C","FIG. 30","FIG. 32A","FIG. 32B","FIG. 32C"],"b":["1602","1584","1590","1600","1602","1604","1606","1","1606","1602","1604","1606","1606","1606","1606","1606","1606"],"i":["a ","b ","c ","d","e"]},"Example Method for Determining Attributes Based on Available Rules and Consequences",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0162","num":"0649"},"figref":["FIG. 33","FIG. 33","FIG. 33","FIG. 33","FIG. 33","FIG. 33","FIG. 33","FIG. 33"],"b":["900","100","152","1610","1612","1614","900","152","1616","1618","1612","1614","900","1620"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0163","num":"0650"},"figref":["FIG. 34","FIG. 33","FIG. 34"],"b":["100","900","1622","1624"]},"Example Method to Construct Attribute Records from Permissions Records",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0164","num":"0651"},"figref":["FIGS. 35A","FIGS. 35A","FIG. 33"],"b":["35","35","1618"]},"In this example method , the matching and classification utility  may first check relevant permissions to ensure that it has the authority to perform the desired transactions (, block ). For example, the matching and classification utility  may examine a permissions record about the permissions records it has collected, this permissions record it is examining indicating what entities have authority to perform operations with respect to the permissions record to be analyzed. Presuming the matching and classification utility  has the appropriate permission, it opens a permissions to be analyzed (, block ), and performs a sequence of steps \u2013 to extract relevant information from the permissions record. For example, information from the permissions record header can be copied into the attribute record (, block ), and then the method may locate the rights record header (block , ). Information from the rights record header may be copied into the attribute record (block , ), along with the identifier for the corresponding right(s) (blocks , , ). The process may then recursively locate and harvest data from each method header contained within the rights record (blocks , , , ). The process may recursively repeat steps \u2013 for each rights record within the permissions record (as tested for by decision block , ). Finally, the entire process of steps \u2013 may be performed recursively for multiple permissions records to harvest the appropriate rules and consequences information from each of a number of permissions records (see decision block , ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0166","num":"0653"},"figref":["FIG. 36","FIG. 35A","FIG. 36","FIG. 36","FIG. 36","FIG. 36","FIG. 36","FIG. 36","FIG. 36","FIG. 36","FIG. 36","FIG. 36"],"b":["1630","1660","1662","1662","1664","1666","1668","1662","900","1670","900","1670","1672","1674","1676","900","1670","1678"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0167","num":"0654"},"figref":["FIGS. 37A\u201337C","FIG. 37A","FIG. 37B"],"b":["1680","1","1682","1684","1686","1","1686","1680","2","1682","1684","1686","1686","1686","1686","1686","1686","1686","1686","1686","1686"],"i":["a","b","c","d","e ","f","g","h ","i","j. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0655"},"figref":["FIG. 37C","FIG. 37B"]},"Example Steps for Assembling Rules and Consequences",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0169","num":"0656"},"figref":["FIG. 38","FIG. 38","FIG. 38","FIG. 38","FIG. 38","FIG. 38","FIG. 38","FIG. 38","FIG. 38"],"b":["900","152","1690","100","1692","1694","1694","900","1696","1694","152","900","1698","900","1700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0170","num":"0657"},"figref":["FIG. 39","FIG. 39","FIG. 39","FIG. 39","FIG. 39","FIG. 39"],"b":["900","100","1702","1704","1706","152","1710","152","1706","1708"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0171","num":"0658"},"figref":["FIGS. 40A","FIG. 40A","FIG. 40A","FIG. 40A","FIG. 40A","FIG. 40A","FIG. 40B","FIG. 40B","FIG. 40B","FIG. 40B","FIG. 40B"],"b":["40","1700","1704","1720","1722","1724","1724","1726","1728","1730","1732","1734","1736","1738","1740","1728","1740","1742","1744","1724","1744","1746","1748"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0172","num":"0659"},"figref":["FIG. 41","FIG. 40A","FIG. 41","FIG. 41","FIG. 41","FIG. 41","FIG. 41","FIG. 41","FIG. 41","FIG. 41","FIG. 41"],"b":["1720","1750","1752","1752","1754","1756","1758","1752","900","1760","900","1760","1762","1764","1766","900","1760","1768"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0173","num":"0660"},"figref":["FIGS. 42A\u201342C","FIG. 42A","FIG. 42B"],"b":["1770","1770","1","1772","1774","1776","1","1776","1770","2","1772","1774","1776","1776","1776","1776","1776","1776","1776","1776","1776"],"i":["a ","b","c ","d","e ","f","g","h ","i. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0174","num":"0661"},"figref":"FIG. 42C","b":"1770"},"Example Steps for Assembling Usage Audit Records",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0175","num":"0662"},"figref":["FIG. 43","FIG. 43","FIG. 43","FIG. 43","FIG. 43","FIG. 43","FIG. 43"],"b":["900","100","152","1780","100","1782","1784","900","1786","1784","152","900","1788","900","1790"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0176","num":"0663"},"figref":["FIG. 44","FIG. 44","FIG. 44","FIG. 44","FIG. 44","FIG. 44","FIG. 44"],"b":["900","100","152","1792","100","1794","1796","1796","900","1798","152","900","1799"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0177","num":"0664"},"figref":["FIGS. 45A","FIG. 44","FIG. 45(A)","FIG. 45(A)","FIG. 45(A)","FIG. 45","FIG. 45","FIG. 45","FIG. 45A","FIG. 45A"],"b":["45","1794","1800","1802","1804","1806","1808","1810","1804","1812","1812","1814","1816","1818"]},"If any applicable permissions record is available and grants permission to the matching and classification utility  (\u201cyes\u201d exit to decision block ), the process determines multiple audit records need to be analyzed together as an overall event (, decision block ). For example, an \u201catomic transaction\u201d in which multiple steps are performed to achieve an overall result may have multiple audit records (e.g., from multiple appliances ) that may need to be analyzed together in order to make sense out of the overall transaction. As another example, an object may have subparts (e.g., sub-objects) on which operations can be performed\u2014but it may be important for matching and\/or classification purposes to analyze the results of such multiple operations together in order to determine appropriate attribute(s) for matching and\/or classification. If it is necessary to aggregate multiple audit records together for analysis (decision blocks , , ), then the process proceeds to analyze those audit records together and create corresponding summary transaction information (, block ).","The process next determines whether it needs to produce aggregated audit statistics in order to perform the associated matching and\/or classification operation (, B, decision block ). For example, multiple operations may be performed on a certain object. It may be important to know statistics about such operations (e.g., the number of times the object was opened on a certain day, the number of users who opened the object in a certain time period, etc.). If such aggregated statistics are required (\u201cyes\u201d exit to decision block , ), the process proceeds to create such aggregated statistics (block , ).","The process next copies selected audit record information to an audit attribute record (, block ). The process then determines whether it needs to process more audit records (decision block , ). If more audit records are required to be processed (\u201cyes\u201d exit to decision block , ), control returns to , block  to select the next audit record. Otherwise (\u201cno\u201d exit to decision block , ), the process creates a permissions record associated with the newly created attribute record(s) (, block ), and completes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0668"},"figref":["FIGS. 46A","FIG. 45A-B","FIG. 46A","FIG. 46B"],"b":["46","1830","1","1832","1834","1836","1","1836","1830","2","1832","1834","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1836","1834"],"i":["a ","b","c ","d ","e","f ","g","h ","i","j","k","o","k","o "]},"The following are some non-limiting examples of how Matching and Classification Utility  may be useful in certain applications.","Interactions with content, transactions, and other events on the World Wide Web are mainly driven today by following chains of hypertext links, using various search engines, and\/or indexes, to say nothing of just plain luck and persistence, to find interesting and\/or useful content and\/or services. Time consuming and generally inefficient, these search activities share in common the feature that each consumer must intentionally \u201cpull\u201d desired content from a Web site to their computer after successfully identifying specific content or services of interest at that time. The present inventions also support \u201cpull\u201d models\u2014a topic to be addressed shortly. However, the present inventions also support narrowcasting or \u201cpush\u201d models of content distribution as well.","In one example, the matching and classification utility  can facilitate much more automated and therefore more efficient and effective content creation, access and\/or distribution services that \u201cpush\u201d information and\/or services to users. Example  shows an example \u201cinformation push\u201d model  in which an arbitrary number of users ()\u2013(n) each have a VDE node (e.g., a protected processing environment ) installed on their appliances. These example appliances may be of any kind, including computers, so-called Web television or Web-TV, DVD appliances with some form of backchannel, a settop box with a \u201cback channel\u201d, and so on.","Perhaps with the permission of the user or other authority, such as an administrator within an organization, the VDE node collects various usage information or \u201cinfo exhaust\u201d according to the rules and usage consequences provided by one or more value chain participants. At times specified by default and\/or by the associated rules and consequences, audit records are sent, in this example, in VDE containers ()\u2013(n) to a usage clearinghouse , which in turn, may send all or a portion of these audit records in a VDE container  to the matching and classification utility . The audit records may contain rights management information, including, but not limited to the amount of usage, the amount paid, if any, the payment method used, if any, VDE control sets, and\/or data that identify various attributes of the node, user, and\/or known and\/or used object(s). The audit records may also contain information about objects known to the VDE node (objects with PERC records\u2014see , B and associated discussions) and\/or objects that have been used (objects with URT entries\u2014see  and associated discussions) on the node.","The matching and classification utility  may also receive from one or more providers  content objects  themselves, for example, information in text format and\/or metadata  associated with content objects. Using at least one classification method, the matching and classification utility  may create at least one object class hierarchy, object class, object classification scheme, object category and\/or object category scheme using at least some rights management information and assign at least one object to at least one category and\/or class.","The matching and classification utility  takes the usage information and other rights management information received from the VDE nodes and\/or other information sources and may create at least one category and may assign at least one node and\/or user to a cateogry and\/or class. In , the matching and classification utility  sends a VDE container  to content provider  with information showing the classes of content used by one or more nodes and\/or users along with a request that the provider  send similar content back to one or more users . At least one content provider  then sends at least one VDE container  to user A with content and\/or information about available content that may be of interest to user A given the history of content usage as reflected in VDE audit records and\/or other rights management information. In this \u201cpush\u201d example, classes of content or information about available content may be pushed automatically from (a class of) content providers to one or more members of class of users and\/or nodes. Consequently, users do not have to search as intensely, if at all, for content of interest to them.","In this example, user A receives content that may be most like content the user has already used, perhaps like content used most frequently in the recent past. The present inventions also support the matching and classification utility  and\/or content provider sending content that is in a class or classes more distant from topics of prior and current interest to a particular user and\/or group of users. Certain classification methods familiar to those skilled in the arts may provide quantitative indicators of distance that, in turn, may be used as at least one criterion for selection.","In another example, matching content to users and\/or nodes may be based in part on class assignments that are in turn based in part on information concerning user preferences solicited by the matching and classification utility  or other value chain participant, such as a market research firm, advertising agency, provider, distributor, VDE administrator , or other Commerce Utility System.","Although the matching and classification utility  and\/or content provider may send \u201cmore of the same,\u201d in another example the present inventions support providers at least occasionally sending content more distantly related to the user's apparent interests to determine if the user's circle of interest might be a little larger than that indicated by past usage and other, related rights management information alone.","In another example, providers may from time to time send content unrelated to the user's apparent interests that may nevertheless reflect the interests of persons and\/or groups sharing at least one attribute with the user. For instance, the matching and classification utility  may, by sending a VDE container with appropriate user and content class information, suggest to a provider that user A receive content similar to content used by another member or members in the same group or class as user A. In one example, the matching and classification utility  may suggest sending business information related to a particular vertical market segment because others in the same class as user A have paid attention to that market.","In support of various content narrowcasting or \u201cpush\u201d models, the matching and classification utility  may provide content class related information to a \u201csubject switch\u201d or \u201csubject mapper,\u201d which in turn, matches participants desiring information in one or more specified classes with one or more sources of content in the requested class or classes.","The non-limiting subject switching example , , shows a number of customers ()\u2013(n) each with an appliance ()\u2013(n) such as a personal computer. Other arrangements may include appliances such as a WebTV interface and\/or an intelligent \u201csettop box\u201d connected to an interface device that uses one or more (digital) TVs for display. Still other arrangements may include an NC computer without a local hard disk logically connected to at least one server, a personal digital assistant with a network connection, and\/or any other appliances with suitable processing, storage, and communications capabilities.","Referring again to , each customer appliance  may have a VDE secure node installation  incorporating a protected processing environment , as described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d, and messaging services software  that manages communications with other appliances. (In an alternative example, some appliances may lack secure nodes or sufficiently secure nodes, and receive appropriate one or more protected processing environment  based services from one or more servers and\/or peers.) These appliances may be located in the same physical and\/or logical environment, such as on the same local area network, and\/or may be distributed across wide area networks such as multi-location corporate Intranets and\/or the Internet itself Among other tasks, messaging services  \u201clistens\u201d for messages destined for that particular appliance or for broadcast messages intended for at least one appliance in the set of appliances that receive the broadcast. In certain instances no appliance may actually be \u201clistening.\u201d In other examples, the messaging services  may incorporate delivery assurance capabilities that assure delivery through use of explicit or implicit acknowledgments of receipt combined with the ability to retransmit information that has not been acknowledged. Messaging services  may be designed such that an operator may select from one or more delivery assurance levels, for example \u201cno receipt acknowledgment,\u201d \u201cretry n times, then notify operator if not received,\u201d \u201cretry until a certain date\/time, then notify operator if not received,\u201d \u201cretry n times and\/or until a certain date\/time, no operator notification necessary,\u201d et cetera.","Messaging services  may use the secure node  to package one or more messages in a VDE secure container that may also include one or more sets of rules and usage consequences that may be associated with one or more messages in the container as described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d. In this example, messaging services  then sends the secure container to one or more destinations using, for instance, TCP\/IP and\/or some other network protocol(s). Also, messaging services  may broadcast a VDE container to one or more other customers .","In this example, a customer  uses application  to persistently request or \u201csubscribe\u201d to one or more particular classes of content. For example, a highly detailed class might include \u201cbusiness information concerning the US market share of PC vendors, information in text format, costing less than a dollar per item, and for which the subscriber receives the right to excerpt at least one whole paragraph, provided that the excerpted amount constitutes less than 25% of the entire item based on word count.\u201d This same and\/or another application may also be used to interact with instances of content in the desired class, for example, by displaying information on a computer screen and\/or another output device in accordance with the rules and usage consequences associated with that item. If a user no longer has an interest in one or more classes, they may also use the same (or similar) application  to \u201cunsubscribe\u201d from a particular subject, or specify further narrowing or broadening criteria to adjust the flow of content from one or more classes.","Items in the desired class or classes may be available from more than one content source ()\u2013(n). To enhance the efficiency of locating content of interest to the subscriber or other participant, the matching and classification  may have created such a class definition and assigned one or more content items to that class. In one example, the matching and classification  may have sent one or more methods, and administrative events necessary to invoke the method(s), in a VDE secure container to one or more content sources  where the classification methods are executed. Such methods may, for example, assign content items to one or more classes. One or more object and\/or item identifiers may have been transmitted to the matching and classification utility  along with class assignments for each item. If the matching and classification utility  has not previously created the desired class and assigned items to it, in response to a request from the subject switch , the matching and classification utility  may do so using any appropriate combination of one or more such classification methods and procedures. The matching and classification utility  may may create at least one object class hierarchy, object class, object classification scheme, object category and\/or object category scheme using at least some rights management information and assign at least one object, item, and\/or subscriber to at least one category and\/or class.","Subsequent to receipt of the request and\/or \u201csubscribe\u201d message from the customer , the subject switch  may query the matching and classification  for content sources  that have items in the desired class or classes. The matching and classification utility  may respond with information indicating known sources of information in the desired class(es), if any. The subject switch  may then send a VDE container to the appropriate content source(s)  indicating that certain customers  are interested in items in the desired class and that the content source  should send items in this class to this customer  and\/or groups of customers, and\/or include such content in broadcasts which may be received by such subscribers.","The content sources  may have already received class definitions and class assignment information from the matching and classification utility  and\/or may have received from the matching and classification utility  or another party to the transaction one or more classification methods and associated events to invoke one or more of these methods to perform classification and\/or class assignment processes.","In one arrangement, the content source  may send the desired items directly to the subscribing customers  by using the messaging services  and subject switch  to publish each item as it becomes available for distribution. In another example, the content source  may broadcast the information such that subscribers' messaging services  will have the opportunity to access the such items from a broadcast. The content source  may call on messaging services  to use the VDE secure node to package the item in a VDE container along with associated rules and usage consequences and then send that container such that one or more listening messaging services  on other appliances ()\u2013(n) will receive it. Based on subject information contained in the message header and\/or in unencrypted (but optionally protected for integrity) areas of the VDE container, the listening messaging services  may identify the message as belonging to a subject class it is listening for, then use the VDE node to open the container and view or otherwise use the item in accordance with that item's associated rules and usage consequences.","In another arrangement, the subject switch  may be located on each customer appliance ()\u2013(n). Using messaging services , each subject switch  may communicate with the matching and classification utility  to locate sources of content matching the subscribed classes. In this example, the subject switch  on the local appliance then uses the messaging services  to communicate with one or more content sources  indicating classes of content to which it wishes to subscribe. Using the messaging services , one or more content sources  may directly send and\/or broadcast items in the desired classes to subscribing customers  in VDE secure containers along with associated rules and consequences. In another arrangement, the content source  may send one set of rules and usage consequences that apply to members of one or more item classes, thus potentially improving the efficiency of distribution and of rights management. In another example, the rules and content items may be sent in separate VDE containers. In this example, the messaging services  and subject switch  listen for messages that are addressed to those customers who subscribe to a particular content item class and makes those items available to customers using an application .","In another arrangement, messaging services  and\/or subject switch  may be installed and run on network routers, network switches, one non-limiting example being ATM switches, and other packet and\/or cell switches.","\u201cShear et al\u201d discloses a Digital Broadcasting Network (\u201cDBN\u201d) that may function as a cooperative of Web sites and, for example, service providers, with a central and perhaps regional and logical (e.g., market based) headquarters groups, or it may function as a for profit, shareholder corporation in a business model reminiscent of television broadcast companies (e.g., NBC), or it may function as a cooperative or virtual corporation that has some mix or combination of mixes of the above attributes and employ distributed peer to peer, hierarchical, and centralized administrative business relationships and activities.","In one example, plural corporations may join together to provide the advantages of size and coordination with individual participants providing some degree of specialty expertise and the body of entities coordinating together in some fashion in a \u201chigher\u201d level cooperative or corporation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0205","num":"0692"},"figref":"FIG. 48","b":["2100","2104","1","2104","2108","2110","900","900"]},"For example, one DBN server may specialize in consumer sports information while another may specialize in legal information. DBN servers may specialize in plural content (and\/or service) areas. This class and class assignment information is provided to DBN servers, to content (and\/or service) providers, or both.","The matching and classification utility  in one example sends VDE containers  to content sources  indicating specific classes of content that should be sent to one or more DBN servers . Using this information, content providers ()\u2013(n) then send content in these categories in VDE containers  that match the categories of most frequently hit and\/or consumed content on a DBN server ()\u2013(n). (In another example, other information may be used as the basis of classification, matching, and selection.) For instance, the matching and classification utility  sends a VDE container () to content source () with instructions to send content in categories ,, and  to DBN server  (()). This content may, in turn, be sent to one or more consumers in VDE containers (), ().","In one aspect, this example process is analogous to hard goods manufacturers and distributors keeping Wal-Mart shelves stocked with those items in greatest demand based on point of sales and inventory data. One difference, of course, is that in this example, the DBN server is stocked with intangibles in the same or similar class as the intangibles sold rather than providing replacements for hard goods that have been sold off the shelf. In another example, a DBN server may send its classification data to content providers along with a request that they send more of the same. The request may be sent independently of the class information.","In another example, the matching and classification utility  may receive content and\/or rights management information from providers and go on to create classes of content and\/or content providers in which the classes may be partly defined using rights management data. Content on one class may, among other things, be distinguished from content in another class by price, payment methods, usage opportunities (e.g., available for printing, available for viewing pay-per-use), usage consequences, and\/or specific permissions. The matching and classification utility  may subsequently send a communication, perhaps in a VDE container, to providers indicating that they send content in one or more specified classes to at least one DBN server.","Non-limiting example  shows that the DBN  may consist of video  and\/or audio  content providers who send certain categories of video and\/or audio content  to DBN servers ()\u2013(n) based on the categories of content each server may specialize in, which, in turn, may be determined at least in part on frequency of usage and\/or other rights management information sent in VDE containers  to the matching and classification utility , or to a usage clearinghouse  and then to a matching and classification utility . (In another example, other information may be used as the basis of classification, matching, and selection.) The matching and classification utility  sends VDE containers  to content sources indicating that they should send content in specific categories  to specific DBN servers . In turn, each DBN server ()\u2013(n) delivers video  and\/or audio  in VDE containers to parties interested in such content. In another example, a VDE container may hold both video and audio and\/or any other content type.","Notwithstanding the noted trend toward \u201cpush\u201d content delivery models, the present inventions also enhance the efficiency, focus, specificity, and convenience of content \u201cpull\u201d models. In one example  (), the matching and classification utility  sends in VDE containers ()\u2013(n) at least one administrative event and\/or associated method that performs classification and\/or class assignments to a VDE-aware appliance. The administrative events and method(s) are processed under the control of the VDE node. In one example, the results of processing the classification method may indicate at least one class of content and\/or services of interest to a user and\/or node. The classification method may also create at least one class hierarchy, class, classification scheme, category and\/or category scheme using at least some rights management information and assign at least one service and\/or at least some content to at least one category and\/or class.","Subsequently, a VDE container  may be sent to a provider  with information indicating at least one class of content, services, transactions, rules and\/or usage consequences, such as the ability to modify, excerpt and\/or reformat, and\/or events and a request that that the provider send content and\/or pointers to services that meets the stated criteria and\/or descriptive information about such content, services, transactions, and\/or events to the requesting user and\/or node. The request may, for example, be initiated explicitly by the user and\/or node or may be initiated by the node according to one or more administrative events and associated methods and\/or control sets. In turn, the content provider  sends a VDE container  to the requesting user () with content that matches the desired selection criteria and\/or profile.","The user may elect to use, consume, purchase, and\/or rent one or more content objects (or use one or more services). As this one example shows, the user pulls in content and\/or interacts with services by matching at least one class indicating user preferences with at least one class of content objects and\/or services and\/or transaction types.","Businesses and other organizations may be concerned with privacy and confidentiality regarding information and\/or services used within the company. This concern may be manifest regardless of whether the information and\/or services originated inside and\/or outside the organization. Thus some organizations may have strong incentives to take advantage of the present inventions by operating a distributed matching and classification utility  to provide matching and classification services within the enterprise while at the same time maintaining a higher degree of confidentiality and privacy by selecting and\/or limiting the nature, range, and detail of information sent outside the organization.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0215","num":"0702"},"figref":"FIG. 50","b":["2400","2406","2420","1","2420","5","2418","200","300","900","2414","2418","2406","2402","2404","2404","2408"]},"In one example, VDE audit records and\/or other rights management information are sent in VDE containers  from one or more VDE nodes  to the enterprise usage clearinghouse  which may forward at least some of this usage information in VDE containers  to the enterprise matching and classification utility . The enterprise matching and classification utility  may also collect from internal information sources  information in addition to audit and rights management information, such as information in a human resources, accounting, and\/or budgeting database containing data about company employees. These data may indicate, in one example, titles and responsibilities within the company, budgets allocated for external information and\/or services, authority to spend, and budget remaining. The budget and financial information may have come in part from the financial clearinghouse . The matching and classification utility  may also create at least one class hierarchy, class, classification scheme, category and\/or category scheme using at least some rights management information and assign at least service and\/or at least some content to at least one category and\/or class.","In one example, using at least some VDE rights management data, for example, whether certain information can be viewed by anyone, by any employee, or only by employees in certain job classes, such as \u201cmanager,\u201d the enterprise matching and classification utility  creates one or more categories and assigns one or more employees and\/or VDE nodes to one or more topic categories. These categories may, for example, indicate content and\/or service topics, subjects, and\/or content areas of potential interest to each employee and\/or groups of employees sharing at least one attribute in common, for example, similar interests and\/or responsibilities.","In turn, the enterprise matching and classification utility  sends to at least one external content and\/or service provider  on Internet  one or more VDE containers  with information that indicates categories of interest. The content providers  may themselves be specialized; in one example, a content provider may specialize in general business and financial news while another may specialize in scientific, medical, and\/or technical information. In another example, a single content and\/or service provider may provide an extremely broad range of content and\/or services.","The external provider may send at least one VDE container () with content and\/or rules and consequences and\/or metadata about content and\/or services to a content server internal to the enterprise. In another example, such VDE container(s) () may be sent directly to an employee and\/or one or more groups of employees. The information sent by the external provider is tailored to, or in some way responsive to the content and\/or service categories requested by the enterprise matching and classification utility .","In another example, the enterprise matching and classification utility  itself may be a distributed commerce utility implemented on more than one computer and\/or other appliance within the enterprise. These several matching and classification utility may serve different geographic areas and\/or may themselves specialize in particular content and\/or service areas.","In another example, the enterprise matching and classification utility  send class and\/or class assignment information to a matching and classification utility  in another organization that, in turn, may be part of a common value chain.","VDE-based value chain management or \u201cchain of handling and control\u201d disclosed in \u201cGinter et al\u201d enables, amongst other things, plural parties to independently contribute rules and usage consequences under the authority and\/or control of more senior or prior participants in the value or distribution chain. Class-based rules may play a role in the efficiency and effectiveness of creating, operating, and\/or extending value chain processes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0223","num":"0710"},"figref":"FIG. 51A","b":["2500","2502","2510","2512"]},"The publisher  sends the class-based rules and usage consequences to a first creator  who also has installed VDE on her or his appliance  and who has also been given one or more certificates and\/or other digital credentials by the publisher (and\/or trusted third party) indicating that he is indeed a creator authorized by the publisher . The publisher has included rules that allow only authorized value chain participants to package content using publisher provided rules and\/or to modify, enhance, extent, and\/or change some or all of the publisher's rules.","The first creator  then uses a VDE packaging application  to package an image he has created in a VDE container  according to the rules provided by the publisher and with the addition of the creator's own rules. In one example, the first creator contributes rules that implement a one-time 50 cent charge to the consumer for opening and viewing the creator's image. The creator may also contribute rules reflecting his wish to receive audit records with information concerning the consumer and\/or context in which the image was used. These creator rules and usage consequences are contributed generally independently of the rules and usage consequences contributed by the publisher. Note that the VDE container  now holds at least the publisher's  rules for each object class, the first creator's image and his associated rules and usage consequences.","A second creator  receives the VDE container from the first creator and using a VDE packaging application  adds a text file to the container  along with her rules and usage consequences. As before, she also has a certificate and\/or other digital credential(s) identifying her as authorized by publisher ABC to add and\/or modify content and rules and usage consequences. As in the case of the first creator , she adds her text and rules and usage consequences generally independently of controls contributed by prior participants. She may, in one example, prevent printing of the text and charge $1.00 the first time a consumer opens and views the text.","The VDE container  now holds text and rules and usage consequences contributed by creator  (), an image and rules and usage consequences contributed by creator  (), and the class based rules (and perhaps other rules as well) contributed by example publisher ABC .","Creator  ( sends the VDE container  to publisher ABC  who then sends the container  directly and\/or indirectly to consumers. When the consumer uses the content, the rules and usage consequences of all three value chain participants (and of other possible participants as well, distributors and repackagers, for example) are applied.","Example ,  shows that the publisher  may have sent a VDE container  with various rules and usage consequences to a matching and classification authority  who may classify the rules and send the rules and their class assignments to a rights and permissions clearinghouse . The matching and classification utility  may also create at least one class hierarchy, class, classification scheme, category and\/or category scheme using at least some rights management information and assign at least one rule to at least one category and\/or class.","An authorized first creator  may send a VDE container  to the rights and permissions clearinghouse  asking for rules in the class \u201crules for authorized creators, for image objects, from publisher ABC.\u201d The rights and permissions clearinghouse  returns a VDE container  with rules in the requested class. The first creator  uses a packaging application  to package his image using these rules plus rules and usage consequences reflecting his rights and wishes and sends the VDE container  to the second creator .","The second creator  also sends a VDE container  to the rights and permissions clearinghouse  asking for rules and consequences in the class \u201crules for authorized creators, for text objects, from publisher ABC.\u201d The rights and permissions clearinghouse  returns a VDE container  with rules and consequences in the desired class. The second creator  uses a packaging application  that determines that she is a creator authorized by publisher ABC  and goes ahead and adds her text object and her rules and consequences to the VDE container , which is then sent to the publisher ABC  for further augmentation, vending, and\/or distribution to other value chain participants.","Whole industries have arisen to target communications to individuals, organizations, groups, and\/or other classes sharing at least one common attribute, and\/or to provide directories from which others can locate individuals, organizations, groups, and\/or other classes. Examples of these industries include direct marketing, advertising, yellow and white pages directories, directories of directories, and various electronic and paper membership lists and professional directories.","In addition to identifying information such as names, e-mail addresses, physical mailing addresses, phone numbers, fax numbers, and\/or similar attributes, the secure directory services  may also provide information about class membership(s) for individuals, devices, services, groups, and\/or organizations. The non-limiting example  shown in  includes a secure directory service  that has received class and class assignment information for one or more individuals ()\u2013(n). The class assignment information is shown in the bottom four rows of the directory record () for one individual.","In this example, a content provider  sends a VDE container  to a secure directory services  asking whether the service can provide a list of individuals in class \u201cAF.\u201d The requested class could be any class defined by one or more attributes and may be based on usage profiles that include rights management information, non-exhaustive examples of which include price, payment methods accepted, permitted operations, meters, and privacy controls.","The secure directory services  returns to the content provider in a VDE container  an indication that there are presently  individuals known to that service in class \u201cAF.\u201d In turn, the content provider  sends a VDE container  with at least one piece of content and\/or rules and usage consequences back to the secure directory services  along with instructions requesting that the secure directory services  forward the content and\/or control sets to each of the 57 members of class \u201cAF\u201d who might be interested in this piece of content. The secure directory services , in turn, forwards the content and\/or controls (in VDE containers ()\u2013(n)) to members of class \u201cAF,\u201d who may elect to interact with the content in accordance with their associated rules and consequences.","In another example, the secure directory service  may send identifying information  directly to the content provider  who may then send content  in one or more classes directly to one or more members ()\u2013(n) of the class. The secure directory services  may, for example, include permissions for the class information that have expiration dates and\/or limits on the number of times the information can be used.","The present inventions may be used in support of services as well as content distribution based business. Example  () shows a travel company  sending a VDE container  to a matching and classification utility  requesting information on those individuals who may be interested in certain combinations of leisure-time activities. These classes might have been defined at least in part on the basis of usage and other rights management information , for example, the kind of leisure-time information recently looked at, for how long, and\/or its cost, and\/or the kind of Web sites recently frequented, sent from consumer VDE nodes ()\u2013(n) to the matching and classification utility , and\/or to a usage clearinghouse  who, in turn, sends at least some of the usage information (or a summary form of such information) to the matching and classification authority . Classes may also be defined using information gathered directly from the consumer , perhaps under the control of VDE. The matching and classification utility  may also create at least one class hierarchy, class, classification scheme, category and\/or category scheme using at least some rights management information and assign at least one consumer, service, and\/or at least some information to at least one category and\/or class.","Example  shows that a consumer () has recently indicated a preference and\/or interest in skiing, music, and flying to Colorado. Another consumer () has indicated a preference for and\/or interest in surfing Hawaii. These preferences may be determined at least in part on the basis of rights management information. In response queries sent in one or more VDE containers  from the travel company asking for interest and preference information, the matching and classification utility  returns one or more VDE containers  with identifying and class information. The travel company may send information about already existing vacation packages and\/or packages specially created to meet the specific interests of one or more individuals, for example, information about skiing in Colorado, and rock concerts  to consumer () and information  about surfing Hawaii to consumer (). The recipients may send VDE containers  to the travel company  indicating agreement to buy the package offered or may request additional information or may negotiate terms and conditions such as price, departure date, insurance, and the like. These negotiations may be conducted using the inventions described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d,  using VDE negotiations.","Both services and\/or hard goods may be offered to particular persons, nodes, groups, and\/or entities based on the class membership of the potential purchaser and the class membership of the goods and\/or services to be purchased. Thus in another example, the travel company could have included the purchase and\/or rental of the skis or of the surf board.","Business to business trading in goods and\/or services may be substantially facilitated through services provided by the matching and classification utility . Information on certain classes of goods and services may be delivered to certain people, groups, or entities based on the class membership of the recipient. In one example, these various class memberships may be determined using control set and audit information regarding trading preferences and\/or transaction patterns. In another example class membership may be determined by actions and\/or information provided by at least one value chain participant.","Example  () shows a buyer A  sending a VDE container  to a trading company  with a request asking if trading company will sell company A one or more desired items. Trading company  may then send a VDE container  to a matching and classification utility  with a query asking who can supply the desired items under terms and conditions that are also included in the container. Since these terms and conditions may be the subject of negotiations, they may be in a format conducive to VDE-based negotiations as described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d .","The matching and classification utility  may send inquiries  to one or more suppliers (A)\u2013(N) and\/or may have already received information and\/or associated control sets from suppliers in VDE containers . Based on the request from trading company  and supplier  information obtained , the matching and classification authority  returns a VDE container  indicating that in this one example, suppliers A (A) and Z  (N) can provide goods in the class(es) defined by trading company's  request(s) . In turn, trading company  sends at least one VDE container  to buyer A  indicating that they will sell buyer A the previously requested items under the enclosed terms and conditions. In another example, there may be some VDE-based (see \u201cGinter et al\u201d, ) negotiations between the various parties in this value chain, including between trading company  and buyer A .","In another example, buyer A  may consult the matching and classification authority  directly and may then purchase directly from one or more suppliers .","In addition to hard goods, the matching and classification authority  may also support securities trading. Example , , shows the matching and classification authority  sending to a VDE-aware appliance with one or more stock trading related applications  a VDE container  with an administrative event and method (as described in \u201cGinter et al\u201d) for classifying equities related information, including, as non-limiting examples, current and historical price, volume, and index information, financial performance data for publicly held companies, forecasts, risk management information, options and futures, and the like. The classification method may also utilize rights and permissions, including access control information, permitted operations, and\/or expiration times and\/or dates for rights management information. The classification method may also create at least one class hierarchy, class, classification scheme, category and\/or category scheme using at least some rights management information and assign at least one element to at least one category and\/or class.","In turn, using the VDE aware appliance , the stock trader  sends a smart object  to at least one information source  asking for information in at least one class identified by the classification method. In one example, the class may be information concerning \u201cpublicly traded companies with annual revenue greater than $500M in the healthcare sector in which the CEO has been in place less than 5 and greater than 1 year and with access restricted to customers (rather than available to anyone) with access and use expiring in 90 days.\u201d The information provider(s)  returns a VDE container  with information meeting and\/or more closely meeting the stated class criteria. Based upon this and other information, the trader  may go ahead and enter an order for at least one trade in at least one stock . In another example, the trader may create or obtain methods that trade automatically in certain classes of securities.","Among the classes of great value to traders are the classes of items whose trading maximize profits and\/or minimize losses. Example , , shows a trader in currency and\/or debt instruments  sending a VDE container with market and other financial and economic information and VDE control set information  to a matching and classification authority  with a query  asking the matching and classification authority  to identify the class of currency trades and\/or debt instrument trades that maximizes profit and\/or minimizes losses. The matching and classification authority  applies one or more methods to the data and returns at least one class definition , the assignment of possible trades to that class , and relevant control set information, such as controls indicating who may see the information, and those that prevent unauthorized modification of the information. The matching and classification authority  may also return methods for executing the trade. The matching and classification utility  may also create at least one class hierarchy, class, classification scheme, category and\/or category scheme using at least some rights management information and assign at least some trading information to at least one category and\/or class.","The example trader  examines the recommendation and sends VDE containers  (A, B) with trade methods and control sets to a foreign exchange market  and\/or to a debt instrument market  where the trades are consummated. The markets send back VDE containers (A, B) with audit information indicating the results of the trading order. In another example, the matching and classification authority  may be instructed to send trading orders directly to the market(s) for execution. In another example the trader may send a VDE container to at least one source of relevant information asking that source to send certain information to the matching and classification authority . In another example, having established the desired trade(s) using the matching and classification authority , the trader may place the trade by phone and\/or computer and\/or other communications device without using VDE.","The services of the matching and classification authority  may also benefit consumers by locating certain classes of services. Example , , shows a consumer sending a VDE container  to a matching and classification authority  asking, \u201cwhich banks are in class A?,\u201d where class A are \u201cthose banks that offer the highest savings interest, no ATM fees, online\/Web banking using VDE, insured accounts, free checking with balances larger than $2,500, \u201cimage\u201d statements (where check images rather than the actual checks are returned), and complete privacy protection (except where legally required to disclose) for VDE based banking transactions.","The example matching and classification authority  sends a query in a VDE container  to one (or more) information sources  and receives one or more VDE containers  with the requested information. The matching and classification authority  then determines which bank or banks meet the stated criteria of the consumer  and then sends a VDE container  with the answer to the consumer, in this example, banks A, B, and C. The consumer  may then go ahead and execute a financial transaction, for example, transferring funds from one bank to a bank identified by the matching and classification utility  as offering higher interest rates, while being assured of maximal privacy for this (and perhaps other) transactions.","In another example, after determining which banks are in the desired class, the matching and classification authority  may send a VDE container to one or more banks saying that the consumer wishes to know about their services and requesting the bank to contact the consumer directly. The bank may send controls ensuring the privacy of future interactions with the customer. For example, controls that apply to audit records such that only the bank and the consumer will have permission to access these records.","VDE and the inventions disclosed in \u201cGinter et al\u201d at last provide a way of ensuring that the efforts expended on creating software will be rewarded since the software can now be persistently protected, usage information can be collected, and payment ensured. These inventions also support micropayments and microtransactions, thus creating a world in which the price of software objects\u2014any kind of objects actually\u2014may become very small. Pay per use, rental, rent to own, and other pay as you go pricing models together with VDE may create a new explosion of creativity in software design and creation, since use prices will be low and providers can be assured of receiving payment.","The present inventions provide opportunities for software providers to more efficiently market their wares. Example , , shows a number of users with VDE installed on their appliances (A\u2013F). These people are using software (and other content). VDE meters usage of various objects and sends audit records in VDE containers  (A\u2013F) to a usage clearinghouse , which then sends audit records  to the matching and classification authority . A software distributor  sends a VDE container  to the matching and classification authority  with a query asking who is in the class, \u201cbuys Java applets, with pay per use pricing, and for which the cost per use is between $0.0001 and $0.001?\u201d","The matching and classification authority  returns a VDE container  with a list of names and (network) addresses of those matching, or most nearly matching the desired characteristic(s). The software distributor  then sends at least one VDE container  with at least one software object, and\/or a pointer to a software object, in this case a Java applet, and perhaps other relevant information, such as VDE control sets and\/or various metadata describing some aspect of the object, for example, what it does, what it costs, etc. The user may then elect to use the object or not. In another example, instead of individuals or VDE nodes, the users might be groups of nodes, users, organizations, parts of an organization, and others that can be identified as belonging to at least one class. In this case, the software may be offered to some or all members of class, group and\/or organization.","Among the ways in VDE nodes, users, content services, and\/or transaction services can be authenticated is through the use of certificates and\/or other digital credentials issued by an appropriate trusted third party, a certifying authority , for instance, that warrants and\/or attests to some fact or facts, which may include membership in one or more classes, including the identity class.  shows a non-limiting example  in which a number of matching and classification authority (\u2013N)s, each of which may provide its services to different classes, where class membership is authenticated using certificates and\/or other digital credentials. In other examples, additional authentication mechanisms may be used in combination with, or instead of certificates, such as information known only to the user, VDE node, and\/or appliance, including passwords, cryptographic keys, information stored in hardware, and\/or software.","In example , , commerce participants including, the matching and classification authority , may make rules and consequences conditional on class definitions and\/or the assignment of members to a class. Class membership may be authenticated by a certificate and\/or other digital credential issued by one or more commerce participants in addition to, and\/or instead of a trusted third party such as a certifying authority . For example, a certificate and\/or other digital credential may attest to user identity, that is, that a user is the user he or she claims to be. Nodes, devices, networks, servers, clients, and services, are other non-limiting examples of other commerce elements that may be authenticated with certificates and\/or other digital credentials. Any commerce participant may issue a certificate, but other participants are not required to accept a given certificate as an authenticator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0256","num":"0743"},"figref":["FIG. 59","FIG. 59"],"b":["900","1","900","900","1","900","2","900","3","900","500","900"],"i":"n"},"For example, matching and classification utility () provides services to nodes (-) in the deployment  administered by VDE administrator . Each node may have a certificate  issued by certifying authority () that provides services to this deployment.","In another example, certifying authority () provides certificates and\/or other digital credentials to participants in a higher education value chain  consisting of an arbitrary number of colleges and universities ()\u2013(n), providers () and students (), and a matching and classification utility () that provides classification, matching, and selection services to higher education . In one example, the matching and classification utility () only provides services to value chain participants who have a certificate  issued by certifying authority ().","Matching and classification utility () services can be provided only to members of one or more classes based on certificates issued by a certifying authority (). In one example, the class is participants in a business information value chain , comprising an arbitrary number of content providers ()\u2013(n), an arbitrary number of users and\/or consumers of business information ()\u2013(n), and a certifying authority () that issues certificates and\/or other digital credentials to members of the value chain .","In addition to membership in certain deployment, institutional, and\/or content usage classes, the matching and classification authority () may provide services to members of a certain transactional value chain, in one example, traditional transactions . In this example, a certifying authority () issues certificates  to one or more companies ()\u2013(n) and one or more trading companies ()\u2013(n). In another example, other participants may receive certificates and\/or other digital credentials, including banks and financial institutions, government authorities, for example, tax and\/or customs authorities, consumers, suppliers, and\/or transportation companies. The matching and classification utility () provides services only to those entities and\/or individuals in possession of the appropriate certificate  indicating that the holder of the certificate is an authenticated participant in one or another trading value chains.","In other examples, a commerce utility system may provide services to more than one class where class membership is indicated by at least one certificate and\/or other digital credential issued by a certifying authority  and\/or value chain participant. In one example, matching and classification authority  might provide services to the class \u201cHigher Education\u201d and to the class \u201cK-12 Education.\u201d","Possession of a certificate and\/or other digital credential may be among the information used to classify a node, user, appliance, device, entity, and\/or other commerce participant, and rules and consequences can be made conditional on membership in one or more authenticated classes and\/or on the degree of confidence the rule provider has in the trustedness of the certificate and\/or other digital credential issuer. In one example, a discount to higher education may be larger if the root for chain of trust for a given certificate is a well-known, highly respected and trusted third party, such as an authoritative accrediting organization, and smaller if the root belongs to the MIS department of a small college. In this example, the provider is willing to grant a higher discount when there is higher certainty that the recipient is in fact a member of a specific class or classes.","Chain of handling and control enables, amongst other things, multiple organizations to work together in secure, trusted, efficient, cooperative commerce processes. One way in which the present inventions extend these ideas is through control sets with rules and usage consequences that may be based in part on classes and the assignment of persons, entities, devices, content, services, or other process elements to classes of one kind or another by the matching and classification authority .","One example technique to classify employees is at least in part according to their roles and responsibilities within an organization. The matching and classification utility  supports classification, matching, creation and\/or modification of VDE control set(s) based at least in part the class assignment of individual and\/or groups of employees. In part by virtue of their employee classification, at least one employee may receive certain rights management information, for example, permission to access certain classes of information or permission to perform one or more permitted operations, transactions and\/or events.","Example ,  shows a nurse (), physician (), and billing clerk () all work directly for an example hospital. The present inventions are in no way limited to hospitals, but apply to any organization, group, entity, and\/or institution with at least some defined roles and responsibilities and\/or other class definitions that apply to employees, members, and\/or others associated, affiliated, and\/or employed by the organization, group, entity and\/or institution. Rights management information may be part of the claim definition, for example, permissions to view, modify, excerpt, and so on.","Control sets may provide permissions conditional on employee class, for example, certain classes of employees may modify certain information and\/or classes of information in a database while others may not. Class membership may be indicated by digital credentials, non-limiting examples of which include digital certificates and digital membership cards. Controls may be conditional on other information as well, for example, some computers and\/or display devices may not show certain classes of data or updates to certain data elements may not be performed from certain computers or display devices.","Another example role is a representative () of an insurance company , who may have access to certain classes of hospital information by virtue of her or his class membership(s), some of which may derive from her or his role in the insurance company  and\/or from the insurance company's relationship with the hospital and\/or with some of the hospital's patients and\/or staff. The present inventions are not limited in application to an insurance company, but may be applied to any individual, group, organization, entity, and\/or institution with whom the example hospital and\/or other entity has some form of relationship.","An example insurance company  have received a certificate in a VDE container  issued by certifying authority () attesting to the identity of the insurance company. In another example, this certificate and\/or one or more additional certificates may attest to the fact that the insurance company has the appropriate charter, licenses, and other grants of authority to be in the health insurance business. The certifying authority () may also send a certificate in a VDE container  attesting to hospital's identity. In another example, this certificate and\/or one or more additional certificates may attest to the fact that the hospital has the appropriate charter, licenses, and other grants of authority to provide hospital and related services.","The insurance company  may have sent one or more control sets to the hospital in a VDE container . These controls may be based in part on one or more certificates  and\/or on the classification output of an example matching and classification utility () operating within and\/or on behalf of the insurance company . The controls in container  may indicate which individuals are actually employees of the insurance company, employee membership in one or more classes, permissions associated with that individual and\/or class, and\/or permissions associated with specific devices, communications channels (devices, ports, etc.), and\/or processes. In this one example, the hospital matching and classification utility () may create controls using the same and\/or additional classes and controls received from the insurance company .","The insurance company  may also provide one or more certificates to the hospital attesting to the fact that one or more information sources within the insurance company are to be take by the hospital as trusted sources. Lastly, in this regard, the insurance company may issue one or more certificates on behalf of each employee attesting that each is in fact an employee of the company and may have certain authorizations.","In example , , a matching and classification utility () has identified various classes of hospital employees using information from at least one hospital information system  and\/or VDE node. The matching and classification utility () may also make use of certificates issued by a certifying authority () outside (a trusted third party) and\/or a certifying authority () inside the hospital. Using data dictionaries , patient records , various employee information , automated procedures, and\/or other means, the matching and classification utility () creates classes  of patient record information and associates one or more control sets  with each class of information and\/or with a patient record as a whole. These control sets may specify who has permission to use and\/or modify the record and\/or an element(s) of the record that has been assigned to one or more classes on which the control set(s) may in part depend. In one example, the class based controls  may be combined with other hospital and\/or other party controls, controls from the insurance company , to create new controls ()\u2013(n) associated with patient records ()\u2013(n).","The example nurse () and physician (), for example, may be able to view, modify, print, and\/or copy patient's name, address, and other similar descriptive information, next of kin, insurance, and medical information in accordance with controls () and (), respectively. In another example, some members of the class \u201cnurse\u201d and\/or the class \u201cphysician\u201d may have different permissions by virtue of membership in one or more additional classes. A physician who is in the class \u201chospital administration\u201d may have different permissions, for example, to billing records.","A billing clerk () in the hospital may not have permission in control set () to view medical information and\/or next of kin, and in this example may be restricted to name and other patient descriptive information, insurance information, and billing information from the patient record. A representative () of the insurance company may have permission by virtue of control set () to view, but no permission to modify, print, or copy patient record (). In each of these examples, the VDE control sets are at least partially conditional on the presence and\/or absence of certain certificates indicating membership in one or more classes.","The present inventions may be applied to any information, person, group, device, network, service, database that pertains to any commerce activity whatsoever, and regardless of whether the parties to the commerce activity are individuals, groups, entities, organizations, institutions, nations, and\/or societies.","Not only do the present inventions enhance commerce processes that principally entail information, but the present inventions enhance workflow and work process automation as well. Example , , shows PCs () functioning as station controllers connected to various manufacturing devices (). These station controllers that exchange data and instructions with the equipment they control and\/or manage. The station controllers are VDE-enabled. In another example, the manufacturing equipment may also have VDE nodes installed.","An example work in progress (WIP) and\/or manufacturing control application  keeps track of the overall manufacturing processes and exchanges information with other applications not shown, such as materials management, materials ordering, order databases, logistics, inventory, accounts payable, accounts receivable, general ledger, human resources, time cards, and the like.","An example employee  of the company sends a query  in a VDE container  to an enterprise matching and classification utility  within the company asking, \u201cwhich VDE-controlled\u201d equipment will be available 3rd shift today, for 2 hours, capable of performing operations xyz with a nominal error rate of less than 0.0001 per cent?\u201d The enterprise matching and classification utility  may request data  from the WIP\/manufacturing process control application  and\/or may already have access to the required data, indicating equipment availability, security level, capabilities, and statistical error rates. The WIP\/manufacturing process control application  may return a VDE container  with the requested information. Based upon the query and available information, the matching and classification utility  responds by sending a VDE container  to the employee  with the answer, \u201cequipment B and equipment C.\u201d In turn, the employee  sends another VDE container  to the WIP\/manufacturing process control application  with VDE a control set(s) indicating B and C should be scheduled for 2 hours on 3rd shift to do xyz operations. As part of this particular chain of handling and control, the WIP\/manufacturing process control application  sends VDE container  to the VDE-enabled station controllers for equipment B or C with control sets that schedule work and specify the manufacturing processes and\/or \u201crecipes\u201d for those specific equipment () or (). In turn, the respective station controllers carry out their instructions and report progress and completion in VDE containers  sent back to the WIP\/manufacturing process control application , which may in one example, provide results to other applications and\/or to the employee who originally requested the work to be scheduled and performed.","Among the rightsholders in commerce processes of all kinds are societies and governments. Governments may foster rules indicating that certain classes of individuals may have not have access to certain classes of content. Some classes of information may be treated as members of classes that define permissions, such as \u201cconfidential,\u201d \u201csecret,\u201d \u201ctop secret,\u201d and so on. Other non-limiting example governmental rights may address permissions for import, use, and\/or export of certain classes of hard goods, services, currency and financial instruments, and content. Travelers entering the United States, for example, are usually asked about currency (and currency equivalents) being brought into the country by the traveler. Children, for example, may be prohibited as a matter of law by governments from viewing content in the class \u201csexually explicit.\u201d","Another example of government rights is that different tax rules may be applied to different classes of electronic commerce transactions using VDE. Example , , shows a certifying authority  operated by and\/or on behalf of a government issuing a certificate and\/or other digital credential indicating jurisdiction, namely, country. The certificate is sent in a VDE container () to a VDE administrator . The government certifying authority  also sends certificates in VDE containers ()\u2013() to the government matching and classification authority  attesting to the \u201ccountry,\u201d in one example, the United States, and another certificate  attesting to the fact that the matching and classification authority  is indeed an authorized service of the United States government.","In one example, the government matching and classification authority  has created tax class definitions  and tax control sets  that apply those definitions in various classes of circumstances, including the presence of certain control-related information, such as an appropriate country certificate from an authorized issuer of such jurisdictional certificates. The tax class definitions , tax control sets , and government authority certificates \u2032 are sent in at least one VDE container to a rights and permissions clearinghouse , who, in one example, redistributes the tax class definitions (), tax class control sets (), and\/or government authorization certificate () to content providers , service providers , and other value chain participants. The certifying authority  also sends country certificates to one or more VDE administrators  who, in turn, send country certificates \u2032 to VDE nodes (A)\u2013() in their deployment. When content provider  distributes content of any kind, the appropriate tax control sets (A) are also included in the VDE container. A tax control set is applied whenever content is used in accordance with a tax class and provided that the appropriate jurisdictional certificate \u2032 is present on the VDE node (). For instance, a VDE node may have a tax control set to be applied to sales of a class of content, specifically, to the class of \u201csoftware.\u201d Whenever a software vend occurs, the appropriate tax is applied according to these rules.","In another example, the various country and government authority certificates may be sent directly from the certifying authority  to one or more VDE nodes . The VDE controls that implement tax policy for one or more classes may also be sent directly to VDE nodes  and\/or to VDE administrators .","Content objects may be displayed using one or another formats according to class membership of that object. In example , shown in , a matching and classification utility  provides content class information  to information providers . A consumer () previously has sent a VDE container to a provider of sports information () indicating interest in \u201cclass b\u201d stories, and perhaps other classes as well. The sports information provider () sends back a VDE container () with one or more stories in \u201cclass b,\u201d perhaps \u201call stories about baseball, New York, Yankees, history, heroes with permission to print\u201d an example of which is (), along with, in this example, one or more VDE control sets. The VDE container () is received by a customer () who then displays the content () using one or another page formatting technologies based on macros, scripts, administrative events, methods, and\/or other techniques. Also included in the VDE container is an image () that was selected by the information provider as especially appropriate to the class of story being sent. In this example, perhaps the image () is a faint image of Joe DiMaggio. This image also meets the criteria of \u201cpermission to print.\u201d","Example , , also shows another instance in which a different consumer () previously has informed a nature information provider () of interest in class A stories. Here the information provider sends a VDE container () that holds a class of stories different from the class of interest in the previous example. This VDE container  holds a \u201cclass A\u201d story, an example of which is (), that is displayed with a different image (), one that is appropriate to the story class, in this case, an image of a dog. The class assigned to each story may be carried in the container as metadata for one or more story objects in another example. An example Web browser may request of the information provider an image appropriate to that class, which if available, would be sent in another VDE container.","Class may affect display rules in other example ways as well. For instance, several team sports news stories may be displayed in a Web browser window in which a scene from a football or basketball game is faintly discernible in the background. Which image is displayed may be determined by the user's preferences given the classes of stories being presented on the page. The user, may have looked most at stories about the New England Patriots and a Patriots-related image may be displayed as background even stories about teams in addition to (or even instead of) the Patriots were being displayed.","In (another) example , shown in , a matching and classification utility  provides class information to a provider (). Previously, one user () has indicated to the provider () that she prefers information in topic class A more than information in topic class C and information that costs less than $0.50 per article while the other user () has the opposite preferences and is not price sensitive. A matching and classification utility  may provide classification information, class assignments for objects, administrative events, and\/or methods for these and related purposes. Regardless, the information provider () sends the identical VDE container  to each of the users . However, their browser and page formatting software  produces different pages in accordance with each user's topic class preferences. In the example first case, the user () sees three columns of topic A and one column of topic C while the second example user () sees three columns of topic C and one column of topic A. As this example illustrates, the class preferences of users may affect the way in which the user interacts with content in various classes.","In another example, the matching and classification utility  may have sent one or more administrative events and\/or methods  to at least one user  where the method performs the topic classification on documents and\/or establishes topic classes and\/or topic classes of greatest interest to the user.","The class of content and\/or the class of user may determine at least one display characteristic. One interesting example way of classifying content is with respect to its difficulty. One example measure of difficulty is reading level, which may reflect such aspects as vocabulary and\/or complexity. It is well known that children (and adults) of the same approximate age read at different levels. In the example , shown in , a provider sends a VDE container () with text at a 4th grade reading level and controls indicating that when used by a person reading at that level, the charge is 50 cents. However, if a person reads at less than the 4th grade level, the charge is only  cents. \u201cReading level\u201d may be indicated by a certificate and\/or other digital credential.","A matching and classification utility  may send administrative events and\/or classification methods  to information providers, one or more other value chain participants, or to the students appliances directly. These methods may, for example, classify documents according to the degree of difficulty and create or modify controls for the whole document and\/or subparts of the document, controls that may indicate the different prices for users at different reading levels. The matching and classification utility  may also send administrative events and methods to users that know how to make the document appear in the example browser at a lower reading level.","The example VDE container () is sent from the provider to a child () in the 4th grade who is reading that at that level. When the child opens the container to view (or otherwise use) the text, she or he is charged 40 cents (which might be paid by a third party such as a school and\/or parent. The child sees the text as written ()","Example , , also shows the exact same document being read by a student () in the class of 2nd grade readers. Now the browser displays the document () modified by methods that may make the syntax less complex and may substitute simpler words and\/or phrases for harder ones. A similar example document and controls in a VDE container () involving a 12() and 9th grader () is also shown.","In other examples, the prices may be higher when users are reading text below their capabilities, they may be offered discounts for reading at a higher level, and\/or they may be charged more for reading on different levels since modifying the text is a value added process, and providers of that value may wish to be compensated for their efforts.","Sometimes the most interesting and\/or useful content is at the intersection of various topics. Also, user often want content in a form or format that will be most useful, and most practical, to them. In the example , shown in , a matching and classification utility  receives from user  a VDE container  holding a request for documents in the class, \u201con economics and politics, costing less than $5.00, and in MS Word format.\u201d The matching and classification utility  responds in this example by providing in a VDE container  at least one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that points to the location of the document(s) on the World Wide Web.","The user  in this example sends a message in a VDE container  asking for the document identified in the URL. A provider sends back a VDE container  with the desired document  that has been classified by the matching and classification utility . In this example, parameter data is provided in the form of scores indicating the relative emphasis on various topic classes, including Economics (score=15), Politics (score=7), and Religion (score=2). Also indicated is the format of the content, which in this example is the desired MS Word. Also conveyed in the VDE container  are a control set indicating, among other things, that the price is $2.98 and no modifications are allowed.","In other examples, the classes might have been much more narrow, for example, \u201cClinton,\u201d \u201cGreenspan\u201d, Federal Reserve Policy, Interest Rates. Also, the customer might have requested only those documents for which controls could be obtained that permitted modifications and\/or excerpting and\/or derivative works. In another example, the matching and classification utility  may send one or more administrative events and\/or classification and\/or matching methods to the customer so that these methods could be applied by the customer. Alternatively, the customer may have send one or more methods as part of a smart object to one or more information providers in search of information meeting the desired criteria.","Not only may people desire specific information, but that information may come from different parts of the same object or parts of two or more objects. The matching and classification utility  can support the use of smart, classification based extraction and aggregation methods, as shown in example , , where two documents (,) have been classified by the matching and classification utility  into \u201cchunks\u201d or subobjects reflecting topic classes and VDE controls have been provided for each chunk. The \u201cchunking\u201d, classification, and control set creation may be performed and stored in a database and\/or may be performed \u201con the fly\u201d or as needed.","To satisfy a request for information concerning travel to and in the United Kingdom plus background information, an information provider extracts parts of each document in the desired classes and creates a new, recombinant document comprised of the subobjects and packages the new document with appropriate controls in a VDE container (). VDE controls for the subobjects may also be carried along and may be modified by the provider and\/or other participants in a chain of handling and control.","The request for information may have been generated using any query and\/or search method, including semantic, Boolean, heuristic, concept-based, and other approaches, and may have been generated explicitly and intentionally by a user and\/or other value chain participant, or may have resulted more automatically from the analysis by a matching and classification utility  of usage, audit, and\/or other rights management information and\/or of \u201cinfo exhaust,\u201d and\/or of preference, demographic, and\/or psychographic data and\/or classes of data.","In another example, the matching and classification utility  may have sent administrative events and\/or classification, search, and\/or subobject combining methods  to a provider and\/or to a user for execution under the control of a local VDE node.","Not only may the matching and classification utility  assist in locating whole objects, it may also assist in identifying and\/or classifying any number of subobjects for a given whole. New control sets may be associated with each of these subobjects. These new control sets may differ from the control set that applies to the object as a whole. This capability allows matching and classification utility  and others value chain participants to locate desired classes of content that may be part of a larger object and possibly to retrieve, pay for, manage, use, or combine these parts in addition to, and\/or instead of the whole object.","In example , , a VDE container  created by the matching and classification utility  holds a text document that in this non-limiting example is the US \u201cState of the Union Address.\u201d The matching and classification utility  has first classified the entire document in the class \u201cpolitics.\u201d The matching and classification utility  has also identified various subparts or subobjects and has classified each them into different classes or categories. In this example, the different classes represent different topic categories.","A user and\/or other value chain participant may request only subobjects that have been categorized in one or more desired class(es). The desired subobjects may be packaged in a VDE container  along with appropriate VDE controls for both the overall, new composite object and\/or for each of the desired subobjects. (The VDE controls can also be sent separately from the content subobjects.) These controls may pertain to the new whole object created from subparts selected on the basis of their membership in one or more specified class(es) and\/or to the whole, new object comprised of these selected subobjects. In another example, the subobjects may be drawn from different documents sharing the same overall topic, for example, from State of the Union addresses given in different years.","In one example, any value chain participant may send distribute one or more subparts of the original object.","In another example, the matching and classification utility  may send one or more administrative events and\/or methods  to value chain participants who may execute the methods to perform the operations to identify subobjects and\/or to subset the whole object in to parts based on class assignments.","Search engines can also use the subobject classifications to provide more precise results. For example, a search engine may have retrieved the State of the Union Address because the search criteria were \u201cUS politics speeches,\u201d but the whole or part of the object may also have been retrieved searching for \u201cUS politics speeches welfare\u201d or \u201cspeeches US president defense.\u201d","Among the numerous advantages of the present inventions is the ability to create classes of classes based in part on rights management information. The feature may enhance search efficiency by enabling search engines to locate members of classes provided by any of numerous schemes for object naming and object metadata that have been proposed. For example, the IETF Uniform Resource Locator (URL), the International Standard Book Number (ISBN), International Standard Serial Number (ISSN), MARC library catalog records, and the recent proposed \u201cDublin Core\u201d (Weibel, Stuart, Jean Godby, Eric Miller, and Ron Daniel, \u201cOCLC\/NCSA Metadata Workshop Report\u201d, URL http:\/\/www.oclc.org:5047\/oclc\/research\/conferences\/metadata\/dublin_core_report.html) are non-limiting examples of prior classifications that can themselves be classified using the present inventions.","Example , , shows several objects ()\u2013(n) each of which may have associated with it various metadata ()\u2013(n) that locates the object in one or more classes, non-limiting examples of which may include network address (URL), price, control set information, permission strings, subject category, title, and publisher.","In example step \u201c1,\u201d object metadata  is sent to a matching and classification utility  which (example step \u201c2\u201d) may create new \u201cclasses of classes\u201d . These new classes  are then made available on a Web page  (example step \u201c3\u201d) to interested parties who may then search for objects according to their membership in one (or more) of these new classes of classes. In example step \u201c4\u201d an interested party  sends a VDE container with a request to retrieve the Web page  with the classes of metadata information. The Web server (in example step \u201c5\u201d) returns a copy of the page  to the interested user , who (in example step \u201c6\u201d) sends a VDE container with a query to the matching and classification utility  asking, in this example, for objects in new class  that cost less than $1.98, and that grant a \u201cmodify\u201d permission. In example step \u201c7,\u201d the matching and classification utility  returns a VDE container  with list of objects that match the criteria. The matching and classification utility  may, in turn, provide URLs or other location information for at least one member of the desired class(es) in the list in container .","Electronic gambling may be among the services that will drive Internet growth in coming years. Such services raise many questions for both providers and for users or players of the service. For example, providers want to be able create attractive, compelling entertainment experiences and in doing so, capture an important share of their intended markets. Users of these services will of course want to locate the most stimulating, entertaining, and perhaps most of all, rewarding gambling experiences.","Gambling providers may, in one example, differing classes of games, rules, payoffs, odds, and\/or interfaces. The present inventions can assist players in identifying the nature of various classes and locating specific instances of one or more classes. Within a particular class of games, for example, players may be particularly interested in the odds at the game of blackjack. In one example, a player may prefer playing with a single digital deck of 52 cards and a particular number of (emulated) shuffles rather than with say four decks and more shuffles, the affect of the latter being to create a more random distribution. Smaller decks and fewer shuffles may make it easier to count cards and\/or to otherwise increase the odds in favor of the player, or at least in favor of the experienced, knowledgeable player.","In example , shown in , an arbitrary number of gamblers ()\u2013(n) whose usage information flows in VDE containers ()\u2013(n) to a usage clearinghouse . The usage clearinghouse  sends in VDE containers  at least some of this usage information to a matching and classification utility . In another example, the usage information may be sent directly from at least one user to the matching and classification utility . In this example, an arbitrary number of gambling providers ()\u2013(n) may also send in VDE containers ()\u2013(n) descriptive and\/or usage information to the matching and classification utility . Based on available information from relevant sources, the matching and classification utility  may create one or more classes and assign one or more providers, services, and\/or users to a class. These class definitions may at least in part be based on privacy-related control information.","In this one example, a gambler () sends a VDE container  with a query concerning best odds for blackjack to a matching and classification utility , who, in turn, sends back a VDE container  with content indicating that gambling provider  gives the best odds in blackjack, \u201cbest\u201d here meaning those most favorable to the player. In another example, the gambler may then contact gambling provider  to play, and the play may consist of a series of communications in VDE containers between the gambling provider and the gambler.","The performing arts, exhibitions, theaters, and conferences are some non-limiting examples of events that may require tickets for admission. Electronic ticket agencies on the Internet and other electronic arenas provide a connection between the consumer and producers of the event. Consumers may want to know such information as the nature of the event, what classes of tickets exist for a given event and\/or class of events, the price for different classes of tickets to an event, the availability of different classes of tickets to different classes of events, and similar information.","In the example , shown in , an arbitrary number of users ()\u2013(n) whose usage information is sent in VDE containers  to a usage clearinghouse  who, in turn, may send at least some of this usage information in at least one VDE container  to a matching and classification utility . The usage information may reflect past ticket purchases, prices, seating preferences, preferred payment methods, preferred theaters and other venues, and other user preference and historical information.","Various ticket agencies ()\u2013(n) may send information about specific events ()\u2013(n) and\/or information about agency services ()\u2013(n) to the matching and classification utility . In another example, an event promoter may send event information directly to the matching and classification utility .","In one example, a user wishes to find four seats for a particular concert or class of concerts and\/or other events whose cost is not more than $25.00. The user sends a VDE container with a request for information on who can supply the desired tickets to the desired events at the requested price. In turn, the matching and classification utility  returns a VDE container indicating that tick agency  can provide the tickets.","In this example, user  sends a VDE container with a purchase request to ticket agency . The purchase request may specify not only the specific event, desired pricing, and class of tickets, seat location, for example, but payment method as well, MasterCard for example. The ticket agency, in turn, may return a VDE container with confirmation of the ticket purchase at a given price, location, date, event, and\/or using a particular payment method.","In another example, the tickets may be digital and may have associated with them one or more \u201cseals\u201d, digital signatures, and\/or certificates indicating the authenticity and\/or integrity of the digital tickets.","While the inventions have been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, the inventions are not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but, on the contrary, is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELDS OF THE INVENTIONS","BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONS","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PRESENTLY PREFERRED EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS","EXAMPLES","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  can Support Narrowcasting or \u201cPush\u201d Distribution Models Based on Classes","Example","Digital Broadcasting Based on Matching and Classification","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  can also Support \u201cPull\u201d Distribution Models based on Classes","Example","The Enterprise Distributed Matching and Classification Utility","Example","Chain of Handling and Control Entails Class-based Rules and Usage Consequences","Example","Secure Directory Services May Provide Class and Class Assignment Information","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Class-based Micro-merchandising and Micro-segmented Sales Processes","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Trading in Hard Goods","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Securities Trading\/Brokering","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Trading in Currency and Debt Instruments","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Consumers Locating Services that are Members of a Specified Class","Example","Matching and Classification Authority  Supports Class-based Software Distribution","Example","Matching & Classification Utilities Provide Services to Authenticated Classes of Nodes, Users, Content Services and\/or Transaction Services","Example","Matching and Classification Authority  Supports Control Sets Based in Part on Employee Classes, Content Classes, and\/or Certificates and\/or Other Digital Credentials","Example","Matching and Classification Authority  Supports Classes and Matching Based in Part on Workflow and Work Process Automation","Example","Matching and Classification Authority  Supports Classes and Matching Based in Part on Government\/Societal Commerce Administration","Example","Classification May be Used in Automatically Selecting the Proper Display Context Based on Classes of Information","Example","Information May be Classified with Respect to Difficulty\u2014and this May Pre-determine an Appropriate Interface","Example","Classification May Describe Degree of Focus of the Content Unit or Portion on a Topic, or Characteristics Related to Conventional Formatting, Such as File Type","Example","The Atomic Aspects can Support Automated Extraction Of Portions of a Content Unit for Aggregation with Topically Consistent Portions and\/or Units From Other Sources","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Classification for Subsets of Content Within a Content Unit (Nested Virtual Classifications)","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Classes of Classes Based on Object Identifier Standards and\/or Other Object Metadata","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Electronic Gambling","Example","Matching and Classification Utility  Supports Electronic Ticket Sales and Distribution"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other features and advantages will be better and completely understood by referring to the following detailed description of presently preferred example embodiments in accordance with the drawings, of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0404"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A\u20134"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0405"},"figref":"FIGS. 5\u201312"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0406"},"figref":"FIGS. 13","b":["14","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0407"},"figref":"FIGS. 15\u201315G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0408"},"figref":"FIGS. 16A\u201316C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0091","num":"0409"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0410"},"figref":"FIGS. 18\u201346(B)"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0411"},"figref":"FIGS. 47\u201370"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
