---
title: Telephone appointment processing system
abstract: Appointments for a professional are captured and placed on an “electronic” waiting list (e.g., database of scheduled appointments) in an appointment system. When available, the professional (e.g., a physician) communicates with the appointment system and announces his availability. The appointment system begins contacting individuals (e.g., patients) on the waiting list (e.g., in an order specified by the professional), and then bridges the physician and patient for the appointment. The communications are preferably telephone calls, but may be telephone, electronic chats, e-mail, pages, etc. The appointment system includes a billing interface that charges the patient/patients insurance for the appointment. The Appointments themselves may be scheduled, for example, via a touch tone phone response system, a web interface, or other communication devices, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06961418&OS=06961418&RS=06961418
owner: Mediphonics, Inc.
number: 06961418
owner_city: Emeryville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20021209
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["COPYRIGHT NOTICE","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.","1. Field of Invention","The present invention relates to telecommunications systems, and amongst other things to a method of dynamically scheduling multiple events in a telecommunications system with asymmetric demand. The invention is yet further related to the scheduling and completion of appointments.","2. Discussion of Background","There are approximately 650,000 physicians in the United States spending an average of one hour per day on the phone with patients. This time is typically unscheduled, disruptive to other work, and almost always uncompensated. Neither physician nor patient is satisfied for numerous reasons, all resolved by the invention. The invention facilitates and documents scheduled medical telephone appointments and collects payment for the physician, enabling physicians to efficiently serve patients telephonically, when medically appropriate, thereby enhancing physician revenue and patient satisfaction.","Medical telephone services are fragmented and in disarray. Telephone medicine has become a major way that physicians provide care, but it remains informal, unstructured, and uncompensated. In its current form, telephone medicine substantially adds to the stress and dissatisfaction of physicians and patients, alike. Physicians are unhappy because it provides no revenue, has grown to a significant percentage of the work they do, and is disruptive. Patients, while they like the convenience of being able to talk to their doctor by phone, are unhappy with telephone medicine as currently practiced because it is unscheduled, and they generally spend a lot of time either playing phone tag with their physician, or waiting by the phone for a call back. The current arrangement results in delayed care, mutual frustration, and considerable administrative costs associated with managing the multiple missed calls.","Some patients have grown accustomed to accessing their physician by telephone, regardless of time of day or urgency of need, and without additional cost. In an effort to reduce the stress generated by these existing disruptive calls and driven by the desire to be compensated for the time spent consulting patients, some physicians are employing a policy of not seeing patients\u2014either in the office or on the phone\u2014without a scheduled appointment.","A physician must treat all patient calls as necessary, yet the necessity is often determined by the patient with no financial obligation for the physicians' telephone time. As a result, unwarranted calls are made, and expected to be either accepted or returned within a reasonable time. The lost revenue and disruption to the physicians practice create an atmosphere of being rushed and a feeling of resentment.","When patients have their very first office visit with a physician, they feel the entitlement of access to that physician, as if the $65 office visit was the price of a retainer. The process of changing the behavior of patients, especially those that abuse the willingness of a physician to return calls, has met with resistance from patients and office staff alike.","The present inventors have realized the need for an automated system that facilitates documenting a physician call and collecting the physician's fee for the call from the patient. Such a system would relieve an already overburdened staff, decrease physician operating costs and generate additional revenue.","Currently, there is no technology available that would automate this process without significant human intervention. In the absence of the invention, attempts to provide scheduled telephone appointments using either the physician office staff or a traditional telephone answering service would be labor intensive and cost prohibitive.","The invention is a fully automated system that facilitates physician\/patient phone appointments, and handles billing, collection, and payment tasks efficiently and cost effectively utilizing telecommunication and Internet technology.","While there has been a lot of press and market interest in physician-patient secure electronic messaging (\u201ce-mail\u201d), this communication channel has not achieved meaningful market penetration because it requires the adoption of technology that is not currently part of standard medical practice or business processes. Although usable with the present invention, the present invention preferably uses a communication channel already used everyday by both physician and patient (the telephone), combined with new business processes and software. The Invention provides a method of replacing chaos, resentment and uncertainty with value and satisfaction for all participants. The number of unnecessary calls will decrease, since patients will be expected to pay for these \u201cvisits\u201d, and the remaining calls will be of shorter duration and of higher quality.","The invention is a computerized telecommunications system and business process allowing for scheduled, compensated medical telephone appointments. The invention combines a database with a telephonic interface to connect patients and physicians at mutually convenient times and provide compensation to the physician. The invention automatically reconciles the inherent tension between a physician's busy schedule and a patient's expectation of prompt service. The invention accomplishes this by providing a scheduled appointment time to the patient (freeing them to do other things prior to the appointment time) but then providing the physician with control of the precise timing of the call at or near the appointment time. When the physician is ready to service phone appointments, the system automatically manages a queue of patients who have scheduled appointments proximate in time. The scheduling, queuing, telephone appointment, reporting, billing and collection functions are handled by the system for the physician with no equipment located in the physician's office. Normally, a physician will have multiple unpaid, unscheduled telephonic interactions in a typical day. The invention has the potential to transform physician phone time from a disruptive revenue sink to an organized revenue source with improved patient satisfaction.","In one embodiment, the present invention provides an appointment processing system, comprising, a scheduling device configured to save appointment times from users contacting the scheduling device, a communications server configured to receive an incoming communications from a professional, and establish outgoing communications to at least one user on the waiting list and place each established outgoing communication on hold, and a bridging mechanism configured to bridge the professional to at least one of the users on hold.","The present invention includes a method comprising the steps of, assigning at least one user on a waiting list for an appointment with a professional, establishing a communications with the professional, establishing a communications with at least one of the users that have assigned appointments, and bridging the communications with the professional to the communications with the communication with said at least one user to commence the user's appointment.","Portions of both the device and method may be conveniently implemented in programming on a general purpose computer, or networked computers, and the results may be displayed on an output device connected to any of the general purpose, networked computers, or transmitted to a remote device for output or display. In addition, any components of the present invention represented in a computer program, data sequences, and\/or control signals may be embodied as an electronic signal broadcast (or transmitted) at any frequency in any medium including, but not limited to, wireless broadcasts, and transmissions over copper wire(s), fiber optic cable(s), and co-ax cable(s), etc.","The present invention provides a convenient way for professionals (or other high time demand individuals) to schedule and provide telephone (or other communications medium) consultations with clients or other practitioners. Referring now to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts, and more particularly to  thereof, there is illustrated a high level block diagram of an embodiment of the present invention. The invention is an appointment system  that includes an appointment module  for making appointments. The appointment module  includes capabilities to present various menus (e.g., voice menus) or other prompts for information to a user, and retrieve responses (e.g., telephone keypad, voice response, or other input mechanisms that allow a caller to respond to the menus\/prompts). The menus\/prompts and responses are provided to facilitate one or more \u201cappointment setting\u201d paradigms. In one embodiment, the appointment module also includes facilities for tracking information about completed appointments (e.g., time and length of appointment, data regarding appointment, etc.). A storage device (e.g., database)  is configured to maintain records of scheduled appointments and, if applicable, completed appointments. A callback\/bridging device  is configured to call back users  for scheduled appointments and bridge the callbacks to a professional  on another line.","The appointment system itself may be packaged in a computer system local to the professionals office, or maintained offsite. The system may service a physicians office, a suite of physicians, or any number of physicians registered with the appointment system (e.g., an offsite system that registers plural physicians, setting and servicing appointments from each physicians' patients).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},"At step , the patient calls the doctor's appointment system to arrange a telephone appointment. In one embodiment, the patient is given free access to the appointment system (e.g., the patient is not limited as to when or how many times the patient can call in and schedule a telephone appointments). In another embodiment, the patient first calls the doctors office, where the doctor's staff provide the patient with access codes or other information needed to register for a phone appointment. Other forms of providing access to the appointment system may be utilized (e.g., a patient may be given a book of appointment codes that may be used to schedule appointments, etc). Preferably, the physician maintains regular hours for phone appoints (e.g., 4:30\u20135:30 PM on weekdays).","When the patient accesses the telephone system (step ), the patient is identified according to registration records maintained by the appointment system. If the patient is not registered with the appointment system, the patient responds to prompts to register with the appointment system (step ). Registration information includes, for example, the patients name, id number (e.g., social security number), payment method (e.g., insurance information, doctor id, etc.","After registration or identification, the patient responds to prompts to schedule an appointment (step ). Although the patient may schedule the telephone appointment using the telephone, a web based interface is envisioned that will allow patients to register and schedule appointments over various types of internet or other network connections (e.g., web browser, wireless internet, phone based internet surfing, etc.). The prompts elicit data from the patient, such as doctor id, time slot for the appointment, and\/or any other relevant data needed by the appointment system. The scheduled appointments are preferably made during the doctors regularly scheduled telephone appointment hours, and the appointment module  is configured such that appointments are only made during regular telephone appointment hours.","In one embodiment, the appointment system is configured to make conference call type appointments that connect the physician simultaneously to two people (e.g., patient and family member; patient and another care provider; etc.). The storage device  is a database that stores multiple contact numbers for the appointment (provided either during registration , or appointment setting ).","Preferably, the physician makes a commitment to maintain certain hours, in effect guaranteeing the patient a call back within a predetermined grace period (amount of time +\/\u2212from the scheduled appointment). In one embodiment, a feature advantage for a scheduled telephone appointment is that the physician calls the patient within the grace period of a scheduled appointment or else there is no charge (or a discount) for the appointment. The appointment system is preferably configured to allow the physician to be able to customize their commitment (i.e. pick their grace period, e.g., 15 minutes, one hour, etc.). The guaranteed call back within the grace period is considered by the inventors to be a highly effective customer relations feature, in essence giving the patient guaranteed attention of the physician which justifies some of the additional charges that may be incurred by using the appointment system.","In one embodiment, the appointment system includes a billing charge lock out (e.g., if the physician call back takes place outside the grace period set by the physician, the physician is prevented from submitting a charge (s\/he can enter medical data, but the charge is set to $0)). In this embodiment, if the physician wants to turn off the lock out imposing the $0 charge, s\/he can set the grace period to a very large number of minutes (alternatively a physician menu includes a \u201cturn off the lock out\u201d feature that allows the physician to disable lock-outs).","Other arrangements for telephone appointments may be made. For example, the appointment system is configurable such that is the physician prefers to have the option of calling back during non regular hours, the patient may, instead of selecting a time slot for an appointment, select to be placed on a waiting list for the soonest available callback. In another example, emergency after hours calls may be handled by the appointment system on a case by case basis (note example discussion further below).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 1C","b":["1150","1000","1020","1160"]},"In the conference calling embodiment discussed above, callbacks are performed to all numbers listed for callback, and the physician is bridged to the multiple callbacks simultaneously. In one embodiment, the physician is provided the additional callback numbers and manually activates the conference calling feature.","As much information as possible is automatically tabulated by the appointment system (e.g., name of patient, duration of call, etc.). After completing the telephone appointment, the appointment system prompts the physician for notes, treatment\/diagnostic codes, billing codes, or other information needed to document the completed appointment (step ). All available information about the appointment is stored as a record documenting the completed appointment.","In one embodiment, ICD9 codes are used for a diagnosis code that is entered by the physician into the appointment system after an appointment is completed. Preferably, the physician enters the ICD9 code using a series of touch tones generated from the telephone keypad. The appointment system includes software that automatically parses a series of touch tones into a valid, appropriately punctuated, accurate ICD9 codes. The present invention includes a look up table that translates an abbreviated ICD9 code into its full value. In one embodiment, a voice input system is utilized to capture the input codes (abbreviated or full codes). The present invention also includes shortcut procedures for entering ICD9 or other codes, including, for example, pressing # for the most common code, * for the last entered code, etc.","At step , a next patient is contacted (e.g., telephone call), and the process of bridging, conducting the appointment, and collecting notes and billing codes is repeated for the next patient. In one embodiment, the next patient is contacted at a predetermined point in the process before the physician completes step  for the previous patient. For example, the next patient may be contacted as soon as the physician starts step . In this example, the next patient is temporarily placed on hold while the physician completes step .","In one embodiment, if the patient is not available or otherwise unreachable (e.g., because the member is not at the number called, or because the answering machine picks up instead, or because they have a phone that 1) they can't stay off of (work phone\/receptionist, etc.), and 2) incoming calls when the line is busy roll over automatically to voice mail), the physician is notified and the appointment system attempts to contact the next patient. In one embodiment, if attempts to contact the patient are met with a voicemail system, a message is automatically relayed to the voicemail system explaining that the physician has tried to contact the patient. The voicemail message may include a description of the patient's various options for reconnecting with the physician. In one embodiment, the unavailable patient is left a voicemail instructing the patient to call back the appointment system and re-schedule the appointment, or wait for a second callback attempt (which occurs, for example, after a time delay or after a next patient's appointment is completed).","In another embodiment, the unavailable patient is left a voicemail providing a call back number for the patient to call to be placed on hold in a \u201cwaiting room,\u201d to be connected with the physician as soon as s\/he becomes available. In this embodiment, if the physician has completed his telephone appointments for the day by the time the previously unavailable patient calls back, then the physician is paged (e.g., see after hours paging process, ). Alternatively, the patient is notified that the physician is now unavailable and re-directed to the appointment system to re-schedule.","The appointment system may be configured, for example, to automatically bill the unavailable patient (no-show fee\/default charges), or attempt to contact the unavailable patient in a subsequent time slot. A cancellation window (e.g., 24 hours, 8 hours, etc) may be implemented by the appointment system such that if a patient cancels within the window, the no-show fee applies. The no-show fee and cancellation window are preferably selectable (amount of no-show fee, and size of the cancellation window) and applied on an individual basis for each physician using the appointment system.","A significant aspect of the present invention is a system and a process that allows a professional or other \u2018in-demand\u2019 person (e.g. a physician) to improve the efficiency of processing requests from \u2018demanding\u2019 persons (e.g. patients). The present invention allows the professional (or \u2018in-demand\u2019 person) to \u201ctime shift\u201d telephone calls from a pre-scheduled specific time to a time more convenient for the \u2018in-demand\u2019 person, (e.g. \u2018 12 minutes after the scheduled time\u2019, or \u20186 minutes before the scheduled time\u2019). In addition, calls that would normally require attention at odd hours during the workday, are grouped together at a scheduled time for telephone appointments. The efficiency is accomplished by allowing the physician to reject interruptions and control the timing of telephone contacts through the following steps: a) accepting a scheduled appointment for a specified time in the future, b) retaining control of the actual appointment time by indicating \u2018ready to process\u2019 (to a system) at some time proximate but not necessarily equal to the specified appointment time, c) managing the connection to patient, billing and medical record-keeping through said system using automated processes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 1D","b":["2210","2220","2230","2240","2250"]},"Software according to the present invention hosted on any one or more of the servers interacts with the telecommunications board(s) (e.g., Dialogic D\/240) and attached storage devices to implement the various processes and features of the present invention. For example, the Dialogic board includes an Application Programming Interface (API) that allows software programs to interact with the board (e.g., instructing the board to answer calls, make calls, bridge individual calls or communications together, etc). The programs are written, for example, in a telecommunications programming language compatible with the API. Commercially available development environments may utilized, including APEX OmniVox which provides a graphical user interface in which a programmer selects certain actions (e.g., make calls, bridge calls, etc.) and outputs a program compatible with the Dialogic board. Other telecommunications equipment may be utilized.","In addition, software implementing the various graphical user interfaces (GUIs, and\/or equivalent screens) discussed herein interacts with the database server to perform database administration tasks that include maintaining records of professionals, users, appointments, billing, etc. as also discussed herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 1E","b":["2310","2320","2330","2340"]},"As with all example hardware devices, configurations, and software processes discussed herein, each of the above are provided as an example that may be used to implement the present invention. Other devices, configurations, and software processes having equivalent functionality will be readily apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan upon review of this disclosure.","To enable the timing-control functions, accept appointments, connect and meter calls, accept transaction specific data and perform accounting and billing,  illustrates a system configuration comprising a database  that holds physician records, patient records, scheduled future appointments, transaction records, billing\/payment data.","Data in the database are added, modified, and\/or deleted by the application server  and the telecommunication server . The application server adds, modifies, and\/or deletes information in the database when a human customer service agent, administrator, or stored process places a request. The telecommunications server adds, modifies, and\/or deletes information in the database when a request is placed from a process operating on a telecom board  connected to the phone bank .","A web server  delivers data add, modify, and\/or delete requests to the application server through a firewall  and a router . A VPN server  provides secure access to the application server through the firewall and router for customer service agents and administrator. A backup system  ensures that the database can be restored in case of hardware failure.","An example of a process enabled by  is shown in . First, an account is created for each physician or patient user by the internet account setup module  or directly in the database by AdminDb account setup module . The information created in account setup is required for authentication, time synchronization, billing and reporting functions. Next, a scheduled telephone appointment is created by the internet appointment setup  and\/or the AdminDb appointment setup . When an incoming call enters the phone bank , the call processing module  passes the call to the user authentication module  and then to an instance of call processing module \u2014the specific instance depending on whether the caller is authenticated as a physician.","If the caller is authenticated as a physician then the call is processed by an instance of call processing module  and if the scheduled time for a phone appointment between that physician and a patient of that physician is proximate, then that patient is called on an outbound line and if the call is answered, the patient and physician are \u2018bridged\u2019 (connected together for two-way discussion without control of the call being surrendered by the connecting process) by module . After the bridge is in effect, the call is metered by the call-metering and data-enrichment module . When the bridge is terminated, module  queries the physician for medical data specific to the call\u2014CPT (treatment) codes, ICD9 (diagnosis) codes, and a fee. After the data enrichment is complete, the call is post-processed by module  where the completed transaction is entered in the database . Billing, module  is a stored process that looks for billable transactions in the database and activates a billing event\u2014through a credit card, automatic drafts from a checking account, paypal, or another electronic funds transaction.","Periodically, the reporting process , generates a report containing a transaction record for payers or physicians that will also be available\/delivered through the internet reporting process .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["23","24","25","26","27","28","29"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["30","31","32","33","34","35","36","37","38","39","40","41","42","43","44","45","46","47","48"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["49","50","51","52","53","54","55","56","57","58","59","60","61","62","63","64"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["65","66","67","68","69","70","71","72"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["73","74","75","76","77","78","79","80","81","82","83","84","85","86","87","88","89"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["90","91","92","93","94","93","95","96","97","98"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["99","100","101","102","103","104","105","106","107","108","109","110","111"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["112","113","114","115","116","117","118","119","117"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":"FIGS. 11\u201314","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":"1200"},"The administrator's interface to the database  provides a summary , which shows the overall statistics for the database. In this example, several physicians are using the telephone appointment system, but some embodiments of the invention provide for single physician usage (e.g., a single office, or stand alone system). A scheduled calls sub-form  shows details of the patients and physicians who have upcoming scheduled phone appointments. The details include, for example, an identifier of the scheduled appointment (CallID) , scheduled appointment time , call status , physician id , patient name , and physician name . The posted calls sub-form  shows details of the calls that have occurred in the recent past. The details include, for example, an identifier of the call , date , time , account number, patient id (e.g., Social Security number) , a duration of the call , one or more treatment codes, one or more diagnosis codes (e.g., ICD9 codes) , and billing information (e.g., amount charged) . Thus the administrator has access to confirm telephone appointments that are scheduled and completed. In one embodiment, the administrator may also change data in the database as needed (e.g., on a case by case basis).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 6"],"b":["1300","1305","1310","1315","1320","1325","62"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1400","1410","1420","1430","1415"]},"In one embodiment, the patient makes an appointment via a call to a human operator that operates a user interface such as the screen shot in  to make an appointment. A scheduling calendar  facilitates the human operator to quickly enter an appointment in the database by selecting a physician, date, and time, and a calendar to select the date of the appointment. In one embodiment, the call is automatically scheduled to the physician's scheduled appointment block.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 15"],"b":["1500","1510","1520","1510","1520"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["1600","1610","1620","1630","1600","1600"]},"In one embodiment, the appointment system is configured so that a physician or other professional may utilize the system to document calls made to persons that have not registered for an appointment. Charges incurred for the telephone calls may be separately charged by the physician, or routed through the billing facilities used for scheduled appointments.","In describing preferred embodiments of the present invention illustrated in the drawings, specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected, and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner. Furthermore, the inventors recognize that newly developed technologies not now known may also be substituted for the described parts and still not depart from the scope of the present invention.","Portions of the present invention may be conveniently implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure, as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art.","Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure, as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. At least portions of the invention may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits, as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art based on the present disclosure.","The present invention includes a computer program product which is a storage medium (media) having instructions stored thereon\/in which can be used to control, or cause, a computer to perform any of the processes of the present invention. The storage medium can include, but is not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, mini disks (MD's), optical discs, DVD, CD-ROMS, micro-drive, and magneto-optical disks, ROMs, RAMs, EPROMs, EEPROMs, DRAMs, VRAMs, flash memory devices (including flash cards), magnetic or optical cards, nanosystems (including molecular memory ICs), RAID devices, remote data storage\/archive\/warehousing, or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and\/or data.","Stored on any one of the computer readable medium (media), the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose\/specialized computer or microprocessor, and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human user or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include, but is not limited to, device drivers, operating systems, and user applications. Data used by the software may be retrieved from different sources (local or remote) and either permanently or temporarily stored (before, during, or after any processing) by utilizing any of text files, delimited files, database(s), or other storage techniques. Ultimately, such computer readable media further includes software for performing the present invention, as described above.","Included in the programming (software) of the general\/specialized computer or microprocessor are software modules for implementing the teachings of the present invention, including, but not limited to, collecting information from registrants using the appointment system, storing data about appointments, retrieving information about appointments, preparing bills and sending billing information to payment organizations (e.g., billing credit cards), listing appointments for review by a professional, contacting users, contacting professionals, bridging calls between a professional and a user with an appointment, collecting post appointment information (including billing, diagnosis, and treatment, etc) and the display, storage, or communication of results according to the processes of the present invention.","Obviously, numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A more complete appreciation of the invention and many of the attendant advantages thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 1D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1E"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 16"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
