---
title: Presentation of information to end-users
abstract: In one embodiment, a message containing message information is received in an end-user's computer. A portion of the message information is first displayed in a caption area. Preferably, the caption area only has enough information to attract the end-user's attention, or provide a hint of the information contained in a subsequently displayed slider window area. A slider window area containing another portion of the message information is displayed after the caption area. Typically, the slider window area is larger than the caption area and contains more information. If the end-user has not acted on either the caption area or the slider window area, indicating that she is not interested in the presented message information, the slider window area automatically closes after a predetermined amount of time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521827&OS=08521827&RS=08521827
owner: Carhamm Ltd., LLC
number: 08521827
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020125
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/347,921, filed Oct. 18, 2001 by United States Postal Service Express Mail Serial No. EL701362699US, entitled, \u201cSYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR COLLECTIG INFORMATION ABOUT A NETWORK USER\u201d and which is incorporated by reference herein.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to computer technology, and more particularly to methods, apparatus, and systems for displaying information.","2. Description of the Background Art","A computer user, hereinafter referred to as \u201cend-user\u201d, typically receives information from the computer via a peripheral device such as a display monitor or a sound device. For example, a notification text box may be displayed on the monitor after the completion of a task. As another example, a beeping sound may be emitted by the sound device in the event of an unrecoverable error.","Computer networks allow remotely located computers to pass messages to one another. These messages may contain various types of information. Typically, messages that pertain solely to the processing aspects of the computer (e.g., machine-related information) are processed without alerting the end-user, while those directed to the end-user are displayed on the monitor for viewing. On the Internet, for example, an end-user gets bombarded with all sorts of messages as she navigates from one website to another. Most of these messages contain advertising information and are prominently displayed on the monitor, supposedly to attract the end-user's attention. Typically, these advertising messages are also designed such that the end-user has to take some action in order to get rid of them or view their contents. However, instead of getting the end-user's attention by prominently displaying the message or forcing the end-user to act on the message, the end-user usually gets annoyed and, as a result, instinctively removes the message without reading it.","From the foregoing, a more effective technique of presenting information to end-user is highly desirable.","The present invention relates to an improved technique for presenting information. The present invention may be used in a variety of applications including, without limitation, advertising over the Internet, network administration, client-server communications, and any application requiring presentation of information to an end-user.","In one embodiment, a message containing message information is received in an end-user's computer. The message information may include text, rich content, or a combination of both. A portion of the message information is first displayed in a caption area. Preferably, the caption area only has enough information to attract the end-user's attention, or provide a hint of the information contained in a subsequently displayed slider window area. This helps keep the size of the caption area to a minimum, thereby minimizing impact on the end-user's current activity.","In this embodiment, a slider window area containing another portion of the message information is displayed after the caption area. The slider window area may be displayed after a predetermined amount of time, or in response to the end-user acting on the caption area (e.g., by clicking on or moving a cursor over the caption area). Typically, the slider window area is larger than the caption area and contains more information. If the end-user has not acted on either the caption area or the slider window area, indicating that she is not interested in the presented message information, the slider window area automatically closes after a predetermined amount of time. Thus, the end-user can go about her activity without having to act on messages that do not interest her. In one embodiment involving the Internet, both the caption area and the slider window area are automatically closed when the end-user navigates to another web page.","These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the entirety of this disclosure, which includes the accompanying drawings and claims.","In the present disclosure, numerous specific details are provided, such as examples of system components and\/or methods, to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize, however, that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details, or with other systems, methods, components, materials, parts, and\/or the like. In other instances, well-known structures, materials, or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.","Referring to , there is shown a computer network in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in , a computer network  couples together one or more client computers , one or more websites , one or more message server computers , and other computers not specifically shown. In this embodiment, network  is a public network such as the Internet. However, the present invention is not so limited and may be used in any type of network, including any client-server network.","A client computer  may be any type of computer that provides an end-user access to a network. In this embodiment, client computer  is a personal computer running either the Microsoft Windows\u2122, Apple Macintosh\u2122, Linux, or UNIX operating system. Client computer  includes a web browser  such as the Microsoft Internet Explore\u2122 or Netscape Navigator\u2122. An end-user on client computer  employs web browser  for viewing web pages stored on various websites on network . Client computer  also includes a message client system , which includes computer-readable program code (i.e., a set of computer instructions also known as \u201csoftware\u201d) for receiving, processing, and displaying various messages received over network . Message client system  is further discussed later on below in connection with .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["205","220","210","215","225","230","235","220","220","101","225","255","220","260","255"]},"Referring back to , a website  includes one or more web pages  and a web server . As can be appreciated, website , and other server computers in the present disclosure, may be implemented using any appropriately configured computer including server computers available from Sun Microsystems\u2122, the Hewlett-Packard Company\u2122, or International Business Machines\u2122. Web pages  may include any information accessible over a network. In this embodiment, web pages  are of the type generally available over the Internet for browsing. For example, a web page  may be an HTML (HyperText Markup Language) file containing news, maps, coupons, offer for services, directories, for sale merchandize, and other types of information that will attract end-users to website . A web server  includes program code that allows website  to communicate with a client computer over network .","As shown in , one or more message server computers  are also coupled to network . In this embodiment, a message server computer  may be any type of computer capable of sending one or more messages  that contain information for display on a client computer . In this embodiment, a message  may contain advertising information. However, the present invention is not so limited and may be used for presenting any type of information. For example, a message  may contain information forewarning end-users of emergency or scheduled network outages. As another example, a message  may contain information for alerting an end-user that someone on network  wants to communicate with her by voice over IP (Internet Protocol) or on-line chat. Messages  are further described later on below in connection with .","A message server computer  also includes a message server system , which includes program code that allows the message server computer  to communicate with a client computer over network . Specifically in this embodiment, client computer  communicates with a message server computer  using a client-server type protocol.","As can be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art, the present invention is not limited to any specific type of messaging system. In another embodiment, the method and associated system for generating, transporting, and processing messages disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/301,888, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USING CONTINUOUS MESSAGING UNITS IN A NETWORK ARCHITECTURE,\u201d filed on Jun. 29, 2001, by Eugene Veteska and Tony Martin, are employed. The just mentioned provisional application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In another embodiment, a message server computer is not employed; instead, messages containing information to be presented to the end-user are internally generated in client computer .","Referring to , there is shown a message client system  in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. A network communications engine  includes program code for communicating with other computers on network . Specifically in this embodiment, network communications engine  interfaces with message server system  to allow client computer  to receive messages  from message server computer . Of course, like all the program codes in the present disclosure, network communications engine  may also include hardware components and supporting program code to perform its function. For example, network communications engine  may include a communications interface card , a TCP\/IP stack, and associated device drivers.","A web browser application programming interface (API)  includes program code for allowing message client system  to communicate with web browser . In this embodiment, web browser API  monitors communications to and from web browser . This allows web browser API  to know the website  the end-user is currently on (or the web page  the end-user is currently viewing), and pass that knowledge to a message controller . Utilizing network communications engine , message controller  can then request message server computer  to provide client computer  the messages  most appropriate for that website . For example, when web browser API  determines that web browser  is currently pointing to a URL (uniform resource locator) of an on-line bookstore, message controller  is triggered to request message server computer  for messages  relating to books. The resulting messages  received in client computer  and provided to the end-user may include advertising information about newly released books, discounted books, other bookstore websites, etc.","Information contained in each message , hereinafter referred to as \u201cmessage information,\u201d may be presented to the end-user in various display formats. Accordingly, besides program code for requesting messages  from message server computer , message controller  also includes program code for routing a message  to the appropriate display format module (e.g., slider module , pop-up module ).","In this embodiment, a slider module  includes program code for receiving, processing, and displaying message information.  show a slider , which is a display format in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Slider  displays message information for viewing by the end-user. Slider  includes a caption area  where a portion of the message information is displayed. In this embodiment, caption area  includes text information. In other embodiments, caption area  includes rich content (e.g., animation, photo, video). As shown in , slider  further includes a slider window area  where another portion of the message information is displayed. For example, in a message information that reads,\n\n","In this embodiment, only caption area  is initially presented to the end-user. That is, slider  initially has the display format shown in . Thus, in the bookstore example, the end-user will only see \u201cSave 5$ On Best Sellers\u201d when she first navigates to the website relating to books. Preferably, caption area  only has enough information to attract the end-user's attention, or provide a hint of the information contained in slider window area .","In this embodiment, caption area  is designed to have minimal information in order to occupy a small amount of display area. This allows caption area  to be presented to the end-user without severely disrupting the end-user's current activity. For example, a slider  with only caption area  (see ) may be displayed near an edge of a display monitor, thereby allowing caption  to be presented to the end-user without totally blocking the end-user's view of her web browser. This is in marked contrast to conventional display formats, which occupy a relatively large display area in the middle of the end-user's display monitor.","Once caption area  is displayed, slider window area  can thereafter be presented to the end-user. In one embodiment, slider window area  is presented to the end-user within a predetermined amount of time after caption area  is presented, and then closed after a predetermined amount of time. This advantageously allows presentation of the message information to the end-user without requiring the end-user to act on the slider (e.g., click on the slider). Further, by closing slider window area  after a predetermined amount of time, the end-user can simply ignore the message information if it does not interest her. This is in marked contrast to conventional display formats that have to be removed by the end-user.","In one embodiment, slider window area  is closed when the end-user navigates to a website or views another web page not pertinent to the current message information. In the bookstore example, the slider window area  containing the message about discounted books closes when the end-user navigates to a website relating to cars. At that point, the message information contained in both caption area  and slider window area  may be replaced by another message information, which is more pertinent to cars. In one embodiment, slider  (i.e., both caption area  and slider window area ) goes away when the end-user navigates to another website or views another web page.","As shown in , caption area  further includes a remove control button  and a save control button . Clicking (i.e., pointing a mouse cursor and pressing a button) on save control button  saves the current message information in a buffer so that it may be recalled at a later time more convenient to the end-user. This prevents the message information from getting lost in case the end-user goes to another website, or is currently too busy working on a more important activity. In the bookstore example, clicking on save control button  saves the current message information about book discounts. At a later time, the end-user can retrieve the saved message information using a conventional user interface not specifically shown. As can be appreciated, the saving and retrieval of information, in general, are known in the art and will not be further described here.","Clicking on remove control button  removes slider  from the display monitor. Control button  gives the end-user the option to remove slider  when she is not interested in viewing any message information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-5D","FIG. 5A","FIGS. 5A-5D"],"b":["401","400","502","501","400","402","400","502","400","502"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 5B","b":["404","502","501","404","401","503","401","401","504","404","401","404"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 5C","b":["404","404","404","403"]},"If the user does not click on an area of slider  after a predetermined amount of time, slider window area  will politely close as shown in . While browser  remains pointed to the same website or web page (or a range of URLs), slider window area  may be displayed again by placing mouse cursor  over caption area  (with or without clicking).","As can be appreciated, the present invention may be used in any application requiring presentation of information to an end-user. In an inter-office network, for example, a slider  may be used to announce employee training schedules. In that example, caption area  may read,\n\n","Referring back to , message client  further includes a pop-up module . Pop-up module  includes program code for receiving messages from message controller . Pop-up module  processes a received message and displays the message information contained therein in pop-up display format.  shows a pop-up , which is in a pop-up display format in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Pop-up  includes a save control button  for saving the message information in a buffer, and a remove control button  for removing pop-up . Pop-up  may be displayed overlying a web browser  in the middle of the display monitor. Pop-up  may also be displayed anywhere on the display monitor, including near an edge. In this embodiment, pop-up  has only one display area containing the entirety of the message information. Of course, links to web pages or websites may be included in the display area of pop-up .","Display format modules other than slider module  and pop-up module  may also be employed in the present invention.","As shown in , message client system  further includes a message cache . Message cache  buffers messages  received from message server computer  (see ). This allows client computer  to have several messages  at any given time. In one embodiment, message cache  contains a message  relating to the current website or web page, and additional messages  relating to similar websites or web pages. For example, message cache  may contain a message  relating to books when the end-user is browsing the catalog of an on-line bookstore, and additional messages  relating to movies that may also be available from that on-line bookstore. This way, a message  relating to movies can be routed to the appropriate display format module as soon as the end-user navigates to a movies-related web page.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["141","141","141","701","702","702","702","702","141","102"]},"A display rules field  contains a set of rules for displaying the message information. In one embodiment, display rules field  includes a rule specifying when to present the message information to the end-user. An example of such a rule is to present the message information to the end-user if she is viewing a certain web page on a certain website. In the bookstore example discussed above, a display rule may be specified such that the message information relating to discounted books will be shown to the end-user when her browser is pointed to the specific URL address \u201chttp:\/\/www.bookstore.com\/\u201d. Display rules field  may also be left blank to indicate that the message information must be displayed immediately. This is advantageous in situations where the message information is regarding an emergency (such as a network outage) or is a notification that somebody on the network is trying to get a hold of the end-user, for example.","An expiration field  indicates the date and time when the message  is to be purged from message cache  (see ). Periodically, message controller  searches message cache  for expired messages  and purges them. This not only conserves storage space in client computer , but also prevents old message information from being presented to the end-user. Such old message information may be contained in messages  received in client computer  some time ago but has not been presented to the end-user because the respective display rules have not been satisfied.","Referring to , there is shown a method for presenting information in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As can be appreciated, the method of  may be implemented in software, hardware, firmware, or combinations thereof.","All. In action , message information to be presented to an end-user is received. In this embodiment, the message information is received by a slider display format module running in a client computer, and is part of a message (e.g., packet, datagram, a data unit, data structure) received from a remotely located message server computer. The message information may be provided by any source and by any means without detracting from the merits of the present invention.","In action , a caption area containing a first portion of the message information is displayed. In this embodiment, the caption area is displayed in response to the end-user navigating to a certain web page of a certain website. In other embodiments, the caption area is immediately displayed as soon as the message information is received by the display format module. The caption area may display text, rich content, or a combination of both. At any time after action , the end-user may save or discard the message information by clicking on a control button within the caption area.","In action , a slider window area containing a second portion of the message information is displayed. In this embodiment, the slider window area is displayed after a predetermined amount of time, which may be configured by the end-user or hard-coded in the display format module. The slider window area may also be displayed at any time after action  by having the end-user click on or place a cursor over the caption area.","In action , the slider window area is closed. In this embodiment, the slider window area is closed after a predetermined amount of time, which may be configured by the end-user or hard-coded in the display format module. In other embodiments, the slider window area is closed by having the end-user click anywhere on the caption area.","As indicated in actions  and , the slider window area is re-displayed when the end-user acts on it by clicking on or placing a cursor over the caption area.","As indicated in actions , , and , the slider window area remains closed as long as the message information remains relevant and the end-user has not acted on the caption area. In this embodiment, the message information remains relevant if it still relates to the current web page, the message containing it has not expired, or its display rule specifies that it should remain available.","As indicated in actions , , and , the caption area and\/or the slider window area are removed from the end-user's display monitor when the end-user has not acted on the caption area and the message information is no longer relevant.","An improved technique for presenting information has been disclosed. While specific embodiments have been provided, it is to be understood that these embodiments are for illustration purposes and not limiting. For example, components described herein as program code may also be implemented in hardware or firmware. Many additional embodiments will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art reading this disclosure. Thus, the present invention is limited only by the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 4A and 4B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-5D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},"The use of the same reference label in different drawings indicates the same or like components."]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
