---
title: System and method for establishing and controlling an on-demand teleconference by a remote computer
abstract: A teleconference system and method is disclosed comprising, a teleconference bridge having a plurality of ports for establishing a teleconference between two or more attendees. A maintenance and administration terminal is connected to said bridge, for generating one or more transaction records in response to a change in the status of any port on said teleconference bridge. A first server is connected to said maintenance and administration terminal, for receiving the one or more transaction records generated by said maintenance and administrative terminal and storing the one or more transaction records in a first database. A second server is connected to said first server having an interface operable to send the one or more transaction records stored in said first database, to a remote computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06967672&OS=06967672&RS=06967672
owner: ACT Teleconferencing, Inc.
number: 06967672
owner_city: Golden
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020412
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","PREFERRED EMBODIMENT AND BEST MODE"],"p":["This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional application Ser. No. 60\/283,870, filed Apr. 13, 2001.","The present invention relates generally to a computer and software system and, more particularly, to a system and method for establishing and controlling an on-demand teleconferencing system by a remote computer.","Numerous teleconferencing systems provide a number of different methods for establishing a telephone conference call or teleconference between multiple individuals. One of the most common methods for establishing a teleconference requires the teleconference host or sponsor (i.e., the individual who desires to have a teleconference), to schedule the teleconference with a human teleconference operator in advance of the teleconference. The operator uses a maintenance and administrative terminal (sometimes called a \u201cMAT\u201d) to program a teleconference bridge, connected to the public switched telephone network (\u201cPSTN\u201d). The operator typically uses the MAT to provide the bridge with the beginning and ending time (or length) of the teleconference, the number of attendees (including the host and the guests) and one or more uniquely assigned passcodes. The operator then provides the host with a host passcode and a guest passcode for the teleconference and a telephone number that is associated with the bridge. The teleconference host must then distribute the guest passcode, telephone number and start time to the various guests.","Some systems minimize the need for a human operator to perform administrative tasks. A host dials a \u201cprofile access\u201d number, which permits the host to schedule a conference, select a conference to attend, manage recorded voice segments, and perform basic administrative functions such as changing passwords. After the host has entered, via a touch tone keypad, a correct profile and password access, the host can schedule a conference. If the host wishes to schedule a conference call in the future, the host enters the date, time, length and number of attendees. The system determines whether or not sufficient resources are available at that requested date and time considering the length of the call and the number of attendees. If not enough resources are available, the host is asked to reschedule the conference call. Otherwise, the system prompts the host for the conference call ID number. The system provides an ID number. If the host wants an immediate conference, the system performs the same steps to determine availability of resources. Attendees to the teleconference can then call the bridge and input the ID number. If the ID number is proper, the attendee is added to the conference call.","Some teleconferencing systems have provided a conferencing feature wherein the host is able to create a list containing attendees' telephone numbers in a memory along with a conferencing code. The host must pre-enter in the telephone number of each attendee in the memory. To establish a conference call, the host enters the conference code. Circuitry detects the conferencing code and automatically calls and conferences together each attendee at the telephone numbers stored in memory.","Unfortunately, current teleconferencing systems provide a limited number of control interfaces to teleconference sponsors and conferees, such as Dual-Tone Multifrequency (DTMF) and operator controls only.","According to one embodiment of the present invention, a teleconference system is disclosed comprising a teleconference bridge having a plurality of ports for establishing a teleconference between two or more attendees. A maintenance and administration terminal is connected to said bridge, for generating one or more transaction records in response to a change in the status of any port on said teleconference bridge. A first server is connected to said maintenance and administration terminal, for receiving the one or more transaction records generated by said maintenance and administrative terminal and storing the one or more transaction records in a first database. A second server is connected to said first server having an interface operable to send the one or more transaction records stored in said first database, to a remote computer.","According to an alternate embodiment of the present invention, a teleconference system is disclosed comprising a teleconference bridge having a plurality of ports for establishing a teleconference between two or more attendees.","A maintenance and administration terminal is connected to said bridge, for generating one or more transaction records in response to a change in the status of any port on said teleconference bridge. A first server is connected to said maintenance and administration terminal, for receiving the one or more transaction records generated by said maintenance and administrative terminal and storing said one or more transaction records in a first database. A second server is connected to said first server, for receiving the one or more transaction records stored in said first database and storing the one or more transaction records in a second database. A third server is connected to said second server, having an interface operable to send the one or more transaction records, stored in said second database, to a remote computer.","An alternate embodiment of the present invention discloses a method of controlling a teleconference system bridge having a plurality of ports for establishing a teleconference between two or more attendees by generating one or more passcodes in a remote computer. The generated passcodes are transmitted from said remote computer to a first server via a remote connection. The one or more passcodes are stored in a first database connect to said first server. The one or more passcodes are copied to a second database connected to a second server. A user passcode received at a first port of said teleconference bridge is compared to the one or more passcodes stored in the second database. A teleconference is established between two or more attendees when the user passcode matches at least one of the one or more passcodes stored in the second database.","An alternate embodiment of the present invention discloses a method of monitoring a teleconference bridge having a plurality of ports for establishing a teleconference between two or more attendees by generating one or more transaction records in response to a change in the status of any port on said teleconference bridge. The one or more transaction records are stored in a first database connected to a first server. The one or more transaction records stored in said first database are copied to a second database connected to a second server. In response to a user command received from a remote computer, at least one of the one or more transaction records stored in the second database are transmitted to the remote computer via a remote connection.","The novel architecture of the present invention also allows a user to control most aspects of teleconference bridge, including, without limitation, the creation of host and guest passcodes, the production of invoices, and the downloading of billing records through a highly flexible and efficient graphical user interface.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","102","140","102","103","104","150","102","108","106","102","150","102","108","110"]},"In the preferred embodiment, a high speed serial connection is used for connection . Those skilled in the art will recognize, however, that an Ethernet, parallel or other connection could be used for connection .","Bridge  is preferably a CONTEX  teleconferencing bridge manufactured by Compunetix, Inc. of Monroeville, Pa. having 240 or more ports. Bridge  provides various digital signal processing, conferencing, call flow, and other conference-related functionality that allows several individuals to participate in a telephone conference call and allows several conference calls to be in progress at any given time. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other teleconferencing bridges providing similar functionality may also be used, with departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.","Bridge  is managed and controlled by MAT , which is implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform. MAT  is connected to a small database  and executes a real-time billing interface , which is an application programming interface (API). As discussed in greater detail below, billing interface  allows information to be sent and received by MAT .","In the preferred embodiment, MAT  and billing interface  are a workstation or other processing platform that executes version 1.0 or higher of the Real-Time Bridge Interface which is also sold by Compunetix.","Referring to  and , those skilled in the art will recognize that the billing interface  of MAT  creates a transaction record  whenever certain activities occur on bridge . Each transaction record  is temporarily stored in database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","201","202"]},"Header  contains information for generally categorizing transaction record . For example, header information  may indicated that transaction record : (1) is an inquiry as to the validity of a certain host or guest passcode, (2) is a response to a validity request indicating whether a host or guest passcode is valid or invalid, (3) contains information concerning the attributes associated with a particular passcode, (4) indicates a change to the status of a port  located on bridge , (5) is an inquiry concerning the number of stored transaction records  in a particular device, (6) an inquiry concerning a specific transaction record , (7) is intended to indicate the start time or end time of a particular conference, or (8) is intended to change user data.","One or more parameters  may be used within transaction record . Parameters  are the elements that actually transmits the data within a transaction record . Representative parameters  are shown in Table 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"126pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 1"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Parameter","Description"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Port","Port 150 of bridge 102 from which the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"passcode was entered"]},{"entry":[{},"Host Passcode","Passcode associated with host."]},{"entry":[{},"Guest Passcode","Passcode associated with guest."]},{"entry":[{},"Scheduled Date","Date for which the conference is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"scheduled"]},{"entry":[{},"Scheduled Time","Time for which the conference is"]},{"entry":[{},{},"scheduled"]},{"entry":[{},"Scheduled Duration","Scheduled duration of the conference"]},{"entry":[{},"Conference Type","The type of conference call"]},{"entry":[{},"Conference Name","Name associated with conference."]},{"entry":[{},"Conference Code","Billing code associated with the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"conference."]},{"entry":[{},"Scheduled Number Of","Scheduled number of parties for a"]},{"entry":[{},"Parties","particular conference."]},{"entry":[{},"Connect Time Limit","Total prepaid connect time left for this"]},{"entry":[{},{},"code set."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"For a given conference call there might be 20 or more transaction records  produced by billing interface , for actions such as: connecting to the bridge, requesting a passcode be validated, entering the conference, hanging up, and the act of the conference being terminated, or torn down. For example, if a teleconference attendee hangs up a phone  connected to bridge , billing interface  will generate a transaction record  in which header  will contain information identifying that the transaction is intended to convey a change in the status of one of the ports  of bridge . Parameters  will contain information concerning the actual action that has occurred (i.e., a disconnect), the specific port  experiencing the status change, and the time the status changed occurred. An example of the transaction records  produced by billing interface  are shown in U.S. Provisional application Ser. No. 60\/283,870, filed Apr. 13, 2001, hereby incorporated by reference.","Referring again to , billing interface  sends a copy of any new transaction records  generated by bridge , via a connection , to a listener . In the preferred embodiment connection  is an IP connection connected to a TCP port (not shown) on Listener .","Listener  collects each transaction record , checks each for internal data errors, and places the transaction record  in a database . In the preferred embodiment, Listener , is implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform and continuously screens a pre-specified port on the MAT  (by default TCP\/IP Port ) for any new incoming data. Those skilled in the art will recognize that for particular applications, Listener  can be programmed to convert transaction record  to a more efficient structure or discard unneeded data in transaction record , thereby allowing more information to be stored. An example of a converted transaction record  is shown in U.S. Provisional application Ser. No. 60\/283,870, filed Apr. 13, 2001, hereby incorporated by reference.","When system  is initially started, billing interface  on MAT  and Listener  exchange \u2018handshaking\u2019 information (such as transmission speeds) with each other, ensuring that both systems are operating properly and recognize each other. MAT  and Listener  begin to exchange data, once the devices have established a communication session.","MAT  and Listener  continue to communicate to ensure that all the transaction records generated by bridge  are actually received and stored by Listener  in database . In the preferred embodiment, MAT  and Listener  will, every 10 minutes, attempt to verify the contents of databases  and  by comparing the number of transaction records  stored in the databases  and . If the number of transaction records  stored in the database  and  does not match, a resynchronization operation will begin.","During a resynchronization operation, Listener  will request MAT  to re-send all the transaction records  stored in database  and compare the newly received transaction records  to those stored in the database  of Listener . If Listener  identifies any new transaction records  that have not been previously stored in database , it will place the new transaction records  in database . Checksums are used to ensure that data is not corrupted.","After the resynchronization operation has occurred, MAT  and Listener  will attempt to re-verify the contents of databases  and  by comparing the number of transaction records  stored in the databases  and .","Because Listener  only receives and process transaction records  it doesn't know how a participant is connected to bridge  (e.g., via PSTN  or IP connection ). Therefore, Listener  operates regardless of how an attendee is connected to Bridge . If different billing types are required for connections via PSTN  or IP , DNIS information can be used and analyzed as part of the billing process.","The transaction records stored in database  of Listener  are also replicated and sent to a database  connected to a billing server  via connection . In the preferred embodiment, billing server  is implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform. As will be discussed in greater detail below, billing server  processes transaction records  by applying various billing rules established by users. Once the transaction records  are processed by billing server , the information can be passed to web server  through standard SQL ADO (ActiveX Data Object) drivers. As will be discussed in greater detail below, this enables a user to directly view the call transaction records, or summaries thereof.","A web server  is also connected to billing server  via connection . In the preferred embodiment, web server  is implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform and executes a web interface . Web server  is connected via web interface  to the internet  and ultimately to remote computers .","A user ID and password are issued to each individual authorized to access web interface . The user ID and password used to access web interface  are separate and distinct from the host and guest passcodes used to access bridge . By accessing web interface , teleconference hosts can establish teleconferences without the need of a human operator and perform a variety of administrative functions.","When a user activates, or deactivates, a host or guest passcode using web interface , the information is sent to billing server  which transmits (replicates) the data to databases ,  and . When a host or guest passcode is presented to bridge  via a telephone , bridge  can determine if the host or guest passcode is valid by having MAT  compare the received passcode to the valid passcodes stored in database . If the passcode is valid, MAT  instructs bridge  to place that call into conference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","108","102","106","110","304","102","306","102","104","107","102","308","310","102","104","107","308","312","102","116","114","102","308","314"]},"In the preferred embodiment, each user who is authorized to use interface  is given a login security level appropriate to their position in the system hierarchy. Those skilled in the art will recognize that different security level classifications or a different number of security levels can be used in a manner consistent with the teachings of the present invention. This information is stored in database . The security levels for various types of users are shown in Table 2.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"77pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 2"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Security Level","Type of User"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Level 7","System Administrator"]},{"entry":[{},"Level 6","Customer Service Manager"]},{"entry":[{},"Level 5","Customer Service Representative"]},{"entry":[{},"Level 4","Provider"]},{"entry":[{},"Level 3","Customer"]},{"entry":[{},"Level 2","Customer"]},{"entry":[{},"Level 1","Individual User"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"The preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes a hierarchical design for establishing security levels and related accounts. The top  security levels are intended to be used by employees of the entity controlling the present invention, while the bottom  levels are intended to be used by the customers of the entity controlling the present invention.","Users assigned to the highest  security levels are able to view various transaction records  stored in database  (or any other related information stored in database ) that is associated with any system user having a lower security level. It is possible to place various restrictions on the particular type of information or transaction record  a user having a particular security level may view.","With respect to the lowest  security levels, a user at a given security level is permitted to access the information associated with a user at a lower security level, provided that the user at the lower security level is within the hierarchy associated with the user at the higher security level. A security level  or lower user is not permitted to view information associated with a user in a different hierarchy.","In the preferred embodiment, a security level  setting allows the greatest access to information stored in database  by an individual not employed by the entity controlling the present invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["133","140","402","140","133","404","133","406","133","122","408","133"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 3"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Menu",{}]},{"entry":["Category","Menu Items"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Conferences","Conference List-Displays the current list of conferences for"]},{"entry":[{},"the month or year based on the selected filter"]},{"entry":[{},"Bridge Status-A snapshot of the activity on a given bridge"]},{"entry":[{},"automatically refreshed every 20 seconds"]},{"entry":[{},"Usage Summary-A breakdown of the number of ports 150"]},{"entry":[{},"per day that were used, either by provider or a total number"]},{"entry":["System","Customers-Displays a list of individual customers"]},{"entry":[{},"Departments-Displays a list of individual departments"]},{"entry":[{},"Subscribers-Displays a list of individual subscribers"]},{"entry":["Providers","Information-Displays a list of individual providers"]},{"entry":[{},"Contacts-Information about an individual contact within a"]},{"entry":[{},"provider that is not a customer"]},{"entry":[{},"Traffic Feed-Displays data based on provider traffic"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoices-A default setting that lists all open invoices for a"]},{"entry":[{},"provider"]},{"entry":["Maintenance","My Web settings-Allows a user to set their individual"]},{"entry":[{},"settings DNIS Rates-Allows ACT to set surcharges based"]},{"entry":[{},"on DNIS"]},{"entry":[{},"Termination Providers-Displays a list of individuals who"]},{"entry":[{},"provide access into the IP system"]},{"entry":[{},"Dialout Rates-Allows ACT to specify transport rates"]},{"entry":["Logout","Logout-terminate access to web interface 133"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["501","501","501","502","503","504","505","4","506","501"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 4"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Field","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Conference","a unique number identifying the conference call"]},{"entry":"ID"},{"entry":["Conference","a value that is generated by combining the Conference ID"]},{"entry":["Name","and the name of the bridge 102 the conference was"]},{"entry":[{},"conducted on."]},{"entry":["Date","the date the conference call was conducted"]},{"entry":["Start time","the conference start-time in GMT"]},{"entry":["End time","the conference end-time in GMT"]},{"entry":["Subscriber","the name of the user who hosted the conference"]},{"entry":["Callers","number of attendees on conference call"]},{"entry":["Duration","duration of conference call from the time first person joined"]},{"entry":[{},"to the time the last person disconnected"]},{"entry":["Connected","sum of the connection time of all participants to bridge 102"]},{"entry":["Billable","sum of the billable connection time for all participants"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Referring to  and , a user can cause web interface  to display a conference detail web page  by simply clicking on the conference name for the particular conference of interest. Web interface  will then display a summary of the specific conference information from the previous web page  plus specific details for each conference connection as set forth in Table 5.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"182pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 5"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Field","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Host","shows the host connection with an X"]},{"entry":["Dial Out","indicates the conference participant was dialed from the"]},{"entry":[{},"system"]},{"entry":["Port","indicates exactly what port 150 on the bridge the conference"]},{"entry":[{},"participant was on"]},{"entry":["Phone","shows the telephone number dialed or the DNIS number of the"]},{"entry":[{},"access gateway"]},{"entry":["Name","indicates the conference participant's status host\/guest\/dial-out"]},{"entry":["Blank","this field can be used to enter information salient to the"]},{"entry":["Billing","subscriber about the conference call e.g. (cost center code,"]},{"entry":["Field","matter number, charge back code, etc). The user can then"]},{"entry":[{},"click on the edit key and click on the billing reference field;"]},{"entry":[{},"type the appropriate information and click save."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["601","601","150","102","601","150","150","102"]},"The initial view of the bridge status web page  is a high-level view. The status indicator label for each port  of bridge  indicates the purpose each port  is being used for. Additional details can be displayed by clicking on the details button  at the top of the page. The detailed view displays the designation (or name) of the particular port , conference ID, the subscriber name, the time port  was first used and the total amount of time port  was in use.","A specific customer's usage of bridge  can be displayed by simply clicking on the customer drop-down box  and selecting a specific customer. Performing this action will display the following information for a particular customer: available ports ; type of call (dial-in\/dial-out); passcode used (with a link to the subscriber's information); time connected and duration connected.","Only users with a higher security level are allowed to see details about a user having a lower security level. For example, referring to the web page  depicted in , the customer viewing web page , is unable to view any details concerning port  and port  as indicated by the symbol \u201cX.X\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["801","801"]},"The system menu has at least 3 drop down menus: providers , customer  and Department . By clicking on any one of menus, the user can see a summary of each level in the hierarchy. The provider drop-down menu  displays a summary of all customers, departments and users within the selected provider's hierarchy. In the preferred embodiment, this menu is accessible only to administrative staff with an access level of 5 or higher and provides a summary of all providers in the system. The provider ID, name, billing address information, assigned bridge and system status will also be displayed.","The customer drop-down menu  displays a summary of all customers within a selected hierarchy. The customers are listed alphabetically with all departments listed for each customer.","The department drop-down menu  displays a summary of all departments established within a selected customer. This information may be listed alphabetically by department name with the provider name and customer name as headers.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["901","133","901","4"]},"Each user can also change their password, greeting name and e-mail address. They can also change the page layout of their account (e.g., number of records displayed per page, how the subscribers are listed and if they would like the providers name listed). Any changes submitted on web page  will be saved in database  and will be effective the next time the user logs into web interface .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1001","122","1001","133","1005","133","122"]},"Web page  also displays relevant information for each customer such as the customer name, contact name, type of contact e.g. (technical, billing, sales, etc.), their phone number, fax number, city, state and country.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0083"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["1101","122","122","122","1101","133"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":["1201","122","122","1201","122","133"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1301","122","1301"]},"Passcodes are typically generated in pairs, host and guest. By entering a host passcode into bridge  from telephone , a conference can be initiated, administrative functions can be performed and billing for the conference commences.","In addition, a user can access the detail call records for any customer, department, or subscriber below them in the hierarchy. The user can also activate, deactivate any level within the hierarchy thereby activating, deactivating all host\/guest passcodes issued at and below that level.","Web page  can be used to: create individual and bulk subscriber accounts; activate and deactivate passcodes; restrict the usage to predetermined limits; enable special conference feature by passcode; and set expiration dates of the passcodes. Generating passcodes is a powerful feature of the system. In the preferred embodiment only users having a security level  or greater authorization are permitted to create passcodes. In creating a host\/guest passcode pair, the features identified in Table 6 can be assigned to any given user and stored in database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00006","num":"00006"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"161pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 6"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Category","Features"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Host Information","Passcode (this can be randomly selected or specifically"]},{"entry":[{},"requested, if available)"]},{"entry":[{},"Subscriber name"]},{"entry":[{},"Account expiration date"]},{"entry":[{},"Telephone number"]},{"entry":[{},"FAX number"]},{"entry":[{},"Email address"]},{"entry":[{},"Company name"]},{"entry":[{},"Account number"]},{"entry":["Passcode Features","Talk\/listen mode"]},{"entry":[{},"Entrance tones"]},{"entry":[{},"Exit tones"]},{"entry":[{},"Record participant names"]},{"entry":[{},"Play custom greeting message"]},{"entry":["Account limits","Maximum participants per conference"]},{"entry":[{},"Maximum minutes per conference"]},{"entry":[{},"Total number of conferences allowed"]},{"entry":[{},"Total conference time limit"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"There are three ways passcode numbers can be assigned to each user using web page . First, a random passcode can be designated for each user. Second, each passcode can by selected sequentially within a given starting and ending range, depending on availability. Finally the host and guest passcodes can be selected randomly.","Once bulk passcodes are created, a customer level user might wish to assign and activate bulk passcodes by using spreadsheet software or another third-party application. This is facilitated by downloading the passcodes to remote computer , from database , via web server  and interface . Passcodes can be downloaded in comma-delimited format to a the remote computer , modified, and returned to database . This eliminates the need to activate and assign passcodes one by one, especially if hundreds of passcodes are being generated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1401","133","130","1405"]},"Billing server  cycles through a checklist of items to check to determine the cause of a problem. If any of these items are returned as \u2018true\u2019 a message is compiled and displayed in a pop-up window . This window  might contain one or more elements that need to be corrected before a passcode can be used again.  depicts a subscriber status web page  in which, passcodes that are expired, unassigned or inactive are displayed in red in column .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1701","122","1701","122","140"]},"In the preferred embodiment, the data may be displayed and downloaded in two data formats, Conference and Participant. The data is arranged in a one-to-many format, one conference with many participants. Most commercial service providers need to differentiate between the two in order to properly bill their respective customers for the calls.","In addition, the present invention supports the transmission and receipt of data in traditional comma-delimited format as well as XML format. In addition, billing server  formats the data to be downloaded to remote computer  in a ZIP formatted file thereby reducing download time for users with slower Internet connections.","Referring to  and , the present invention also provides online invoicing tools. This powerful feature displays a real-time preview of any invoice. After a billing cycle has been closed, invoices are also available for display via web interface .","A pricing module is depicted in  and . Specifically,  depicts a provider pricing model display web page . Web page  allows pricing breakpoints to be applied to transactions  and related billing information stored in database . In addition, web page  allows various volume discounts to be applied.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":"FIG. 19","b":["1901","133","1901","5"]},"Referring again to , to create a new pricing model, information is supplied to interface  via web page : which includes the number of pricing levels; the number of conference minutes between each level; the starting rate per minute of bridge usage and the rate to decrement per level.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 21","FIG. 22"],"b":["2001","2101","2001","2101","2201","130","122","133","4","2001","2101"]},"To generate and display an invoice, a provider must be selected from pull-down menu . Web page  displays a list of all invoices currently generated for the selected provider. Web page  summarizes the invoice period, any description of the service, and a total amount due for each invoice. Selecting a displayed invoice number displays the selected individual in the format of web page . This information includes: Invoice date; provider information; date last generated; total amount due; effective billing date; conferencing rate and dial-out and surcharge minutes.","The invoice also displays the billable activity of each customer and department levels (as created in the tiered hierarchy). Links to details of the sub-levels are provided.","Those skilled in the art will recognize that printing from a web browser can often generate unpredictable output. Graphics, inconsistent page breaks and browser overhead often prevent users from printing formal documents from the web.","The present invention offers a solution in providing printable page windows. Pressing the Print button from anywhere in the application brings up a pop-up window (not shown) with a printer-friendly version of the page or report. The same holds true for invoices, such as the printable invoice  displayed in .","The present invention also automates the traffic retrieval process. A customer isn't restricted to manually downloading traffic files from a web page, rather, the ability to automate this process between a customer's billing engine and the present invention is provided as follows.","Using an HTTP request, a customer can request data, for a specific time period, from database  to be downloaded to remote computer . An SSL connection is established between the remote computer  and the web interface  to provide security. Once the request is made, an Active Server Page (ASP) page (residing on web server ) makes a connection to the database , runs a query, and passes the data back to remote computer  via an HTTP data stream. An example of the transmitted data is shown in U.S. Provisional application Ser. No. 60\/283,870, filed Apr. 13, 2001, hereby incorporated by reference.","Web interface  also provides an automatic traffic feed option. Additional parameters must be provided in order for the request to be processed by web server . The following Table 7 is a list of both required and optional parameters.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00007","num":"00007"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"175pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE 7"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Parameter","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["User","REQUIRED-Contains the username that is making the"]},{"entry":[{},"request. This user must already exist in the system prior to"]},{"entry":[{},"making the request. This is the same username that is used"]},{"entry":[{},"to access the web interface 133. The username is not case"]},{"entry":[{},"sensitive:"]},{"entry":["Pass","REQUIRED-Contains the password associated with the"]},{"entry":[{},"username. While the original password is case sensitive, its"]},{"entry":[{},"encrypted string is not. The password is the only parameter"]},{"entry":[{},"that must be encrypted. The purpose of encrypting the"]},{"entry":[{},"password is to prevent unauthorized access web interface"]},{"entry":[{},"133 by individuals obtaining the URL (from a browser's"]},{"entry":[{},"history for example). In the preferred embodiment, the"]},{"entry":[{},"password must be encrypted using the following steps:"]},{"entry":[{},"1. Convert each character to its ASCII value"]},{"entry":[{},"2. Subtract 25 from each value"]},{"entry":[{},"3. Subtract the position of each value (starting with 1) from"]},{"entry":[{},"each value"]},{"entry":[{},"4. Convert each resulting value to HEX"]},{"entry":[{},"5. Reverse the final string"]},{"entry":["StartDate","OPTIONAL-The starting date of the range of data being"]},{"entry":[{},"requested. If not present or an invalid date is provided, the"]},{"entry":[{},"date one day prior to the current date will be used. Must be"]},{"entry":[{},"in the following format M\/D\/YYYY."]},{"entry":["EndDate","OPTIONAL-The ending date of the range of data being"]},{"entry":[{},"requested. If not present or an invalid date is provided, the"]},{"entry":[{},"starting date will be used. If the StartDate and EndData"]},{"entry":[{},"parameters are the same, only one day's data will be"]},{"entry":[{},"returned. Must be in the following format M\/D\/YYYY."]},{"entry":["Type","OPTIONAL-The type of data being requested. The only"]},{"entry":[{},"valid values are \u201cC\u201d to request a list of conferences and"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cP\u201d to request a list of participants. If not present or an"]},{"entry":[{},"invalid value is provided, \u201cC\u201d will be used."]},{"entry":["Format","OPTIONAL-The format of the data being returned. The"]},{"entry":[{},"only valid values are \u201cComma\u201d and \u201cXML\u201d. If not present"]},{"entry":[{},"or an invalid value is provided, \u201cComma\u201d will be used and"]},{"entry":[{},"the data will be returned in comma-delimited format. If"]},{"entry":[{},"\u201cXML\u201d is used, the Type parameter will be"]},{"entry":[{},"ignored because the returned data will contain both"]},{"entry":[{},"conferences and their participants is a hieratical structure."]},{"entry":["DateFormat","OPTIONAL-The format of the date field being returned."]},{"entry":[{},"The only valid values are \u201cUS\u201d and \u201cNonUS\u201d. If not"]},{"entry":[{},"present or an invalid value is provided, US will be used."]},{"entry":[{},"When set to US, the returned date fields will be in"]},{"entry":[{},"M\/D\/YYYY format. When set to NonUS, date fields will"]},{"entry":[{},"be formatted using D\/M\/YYYY."]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"When needed, web server  will return errors in place of data. The following Table 8 identifies a list of possible error messages and their causes.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0112","num":"0111"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00008","num":"00008"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"TABLE 8"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]},{"entry":[{},"Error Message","Cause"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Invalid Username","Either no username was provided or the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"username was not found in the database."]},{"entry":[{},"Invalid Password","Either no password was provided or the"]},{"entry":[{},{},"password did not match the user's"]},{"entry":[{},{},"password when decrypted."]},{"entry":[{},"No Data","No data was available for the date range"]},{"entry":[{},{},"specified in the request."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Referring again to , those skilled in the art will recognize that because MAT , listener , billing server  and web server  are preferably implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform, it is possible to combine or rearrange the functionality of the various devices. For example, listener  could be eliminated, and billing server  programmed to implement some or all of the functionality of listener . Furthermore, those skilled in the art will recognize that billing server  and web server  can be combined and executed on a single general workstation.","Similarly,  identifies several connections between various components. For example, Internet  is described as connecting web server  to remote computer . Those skilled in the art will recognize that other data connections, such as a circuit based connection, could be substituted for internet connection .","Other configurations are possible. For example, . discloses an alternative embodiment of the present invention. Components having the same function as described in  have retained the same numerical identification.  discloses, the use of a combined MAT  connected to bridge , combined database  and internet  via interface . Combined MAT  contains the functionality of MAT , listener , billing server  and web server . Those skilled in the art will recognize that the use of combined MAT  reduces the costs associated with multiple devices. Such a configuration, however, may be less reliable because of lack of redundant databases and workstations.","Although the present invention has been described in connection with bridge  that is connected to telephones , those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention can be used in connection with a bridge suitable for video conferencing without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.","Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention provides several advantages including improved efficiency, scalability, and flexibility. For example, operations staff no longer need to download billing files, delays in data retrieval are eliminated, and it is no longer necessary to write custom import routines for reading comma delimited bridge files. For distributed systems, data can be collected locally, then sent to a central database for invoicing.","While the preferred embodiment of the present invention uses some hardware and software provided by Compunetix, those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention can be used in connection with other bridges and data formats. Conferencing data can be processed from virtually any source and stored in a central location.","In the foregoing description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is important to understand that the present invention may be practiced with some or all of these specific details. Conventional hardware and systems have been shown in block diagram form and process steps have been shown in flowcharts. Those skilled in the art will recognize modifications and alterations upon a reading and understanding of this specification. The  present invention is intended to include all such modifications and alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 23"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
