---
title: Positive parental control
abstract: A system for controlling viewer access to media content, the system comprising a memory with logic and a processor configured by the logic to provide interactive user interfaces that enable an administrator to positively define media content for access by a user. The processor is further configured by the logic to enable the user to access the media content as defined by the administrator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07690012&OS=07690012&RS=07690012
owner: Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.
number: 07690012
owner_city: Lawrenceville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020228
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application is related to U.S. utility patent applications entitled \u201cPrediction Based Adaptive Control of Television Viewing Functionality,\u201d filed on Dec. 6, 2001 and accorded Ser. No. 10\/008,399, and \u201cTime Adaptive Control of Television Viewing Functionality,\u201d filed on Dec. 11, 2001 and accorded a Ser. No. 10\/015,270, both of which are entirely incorporated herein by reference.","The present invention is generally related to television systems, and, more particularly, is related to parental control.","With recent advances in digital transmission technology, subscriber television systems are now capable of providing much more than traditional analog broadcast video. In implementing enhanced programming, the home communication terminal device (\u201cHCT\u201d), otherwise known as the set-top box, has become an important computing device for accessing media content services (and media content within those services) and navigating a user through a maze of available services. In addition to supporting traditional analog broadcast video functionality, digital HCTs (or \u201cDHCTs\u201d) now also support an increasing number of two-way digital services such as video-on-demand and personal video recording.","Typically, a DHCT is connected to a cable or satellite, or generally, a subscriber television system, and includes hardware and software necessary to provide the functionality of the digital television system at the user's site. Some of the software executed by a DHCT may be downloaded and\/or updated via the subscriber television system. Each DHCT also typically includes a processor, communication components, and memory, and is connected to a television or other display device, such as a personal computer. While many conventional DHCTs are stand-alone devices that are externally connected to a television, a DHCT and\/or its functionality may be integrated into a television or personal computer or even an audio device such as a programmable radio, as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.","DHCTs are typically capable of providing users with a very large number and variety of media content choices. As the number of available media content choices increases, so does the possibility that users will be exposed to what some users would consider to be inappropriate media content. Current parental controls require the parent and\/or administrator to constantly update the prior defined exclusions, and thus there exists the real risk of exposure to inappropriate content. Therefore, there exists a need for parental control mechanisms that further reduce the risk of exposure to inappropriate media content.","Thus, a heretofore unaddressed need exists in the industry to address the aforementioned deficiencies and inadequacies.","The preferred embodiments of positive parental control now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of positive parental control are shown. Positive parental control can generally be described as a system that provides an administrator, such as a parent, with the ability to control the viewing experience for others. As will be described in more detail below, the administrator can control the viewing experience by enabling user access only to media content that the administrator deems suitable for viewing. Thus, the administrator can select media content at the lowest level, such as at the media content instance level, like a broadcast program episode level (for example, from program selections from an interactive program guide (IPG)), for enabled viewing. Thus media content is not available for viewing unless the administrator enables viewing. This is in contrast to current parental control mechanisms, which exclude content.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIGS. 1-5"},"One embodiment of the invention is generally implemented as part of a subscriber television system (STS), which includes digital broadband delivery systems (DBDS) and cable television systems (CTS). As a non-limiting example, a subscriber television system (STS) and its operation will be described initially, with the understanding that other conventional data delivery systems are within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the invention.  shows a block diagram view of an STS , which is generally a high quality, reliable and integrated network system that is typically capable of delivering video, audio, voice and data services to digital home communication terminals (DHCTs) . Although  depicts a high level view of an STS , it should be appreciated that a plurality of subscriber television systems can tie together a plurality of regional networks into an integrated global network so that DHCT users can receive media content provided from anywhere in the world. Further, it will be appreciated that the STS  shown in  is merely illustrative and should not be construed as implying any limitations upon the scope of the preferred embodiments of the invention. For instance, subscriber television systems also included within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the invention include systems not utilizing physical structured cabling for transmission, such as, but not limited to, satellite systems. Further, transmission media included within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the invention include, but are not limited to, Hybrid Fiber\/Coax (HFC), optical, satellite, radio frequency (RF), frequency modulated (FM), and microwave. Further, data provided from the headend  to the DHCTs  and programming necessary to perform the functions discussed below will be understood to be present in the STS , in accordance with the description below.","The STS  typically delivers broadcast video signals as digitally formatted signals in addition to delivering traditional broadcast analog video signals. Furthermore, the system can typically support one way broadcast services as well as both one-way data services and two-way media content and data services. The two-way operation of the network typically allows for user interactivity with services, such as Pay-Per-View programming, Near Video-On-Demand (NVOD) programming according to any of several known NVOD implementation methods, Video-on-Demand (VOD) programming (according to any of several VOD implementation methods), and interactive applications, such as Internet connections.","The STS  also provides the interfaces, network control, transport control, session control, and servers to access media content from media content services, and distributes media content to DHCT users. As shown in , a typical STS  comprises a headend , hubs , an HFC access network , nodes , taps , and DHCTs . It should be appreciated that although a single component (e.g. a headend) is illustrated in , the STS  can feature a plurality of any one of the illustrated components, can omit components, or may be configured with alternative embodiments for any one of the individual components or with yet other additional components not enumerated above.","Media content provided by one or more content providers (not shown) is communicated by the content providers to one or more headends . From those headends  the media content is then communicated over a communications network  that includes a plurality of HFC access networks  (only one HFC access network  is illustrated). The HFC access network  typically comprises a plurality of HFC nodes , each of which may serve a local geographical area. The hub  connects to the HFC node  through a fiber portion of the HFC access network . The HFC node  is connected to a tap  which is preferably connected to a digital home communication terminal (DHCT) . Coaxial cables are typically used to couple nodes  and taps  because the electrical signals can be easily repeated with RF amplifiers. As the high-level operations of many of the functions of an STS  are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art, further high level description of the overall STS  of  will not be contained herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","260","264","268","272","276","16","17","11","12"]},"As depicted in , the STS  () can simultaneously support a number of transmission signal types, transmission rates, and modulation formats. The ability to carry analog and digital signals over a large bandwidth are characteristics of an HFC network typically employed in an STS, as in the STS  of . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art, analog and digital signals in HFC networks can be multiplexed using Frequency Division Multiplexing (FDM), which enables many different types of signals to be transmitted over the STS  to the DHCT . Typically, an STS  using HFC supports downstream (i.e., in the direction from the headend  to the DHCT ) frequencies from 50 mega-hertz (MHz) to 870 MHz, whereas upstream frequencies (i.e., in the direction from the DHCT  to higher levels of the system) are in the 5 MHz to 42 MHz band. Generally, the RF bandwidth spacing for analog and digital services is 6 MHz. Furthermore, for a typical 870 MHz system in the United States (U.S.), a possible downstream RF spectrum subdivision plan uses 6 MHz frequency subdivisions, or spans, within the 50 MHz to 550 MHz band for analog video transmission signals and within the 550 MHz to 870 MHz range for digital transmission signals.","Analog transmission signals (ATSs)  shown in  are typically broadcast in 6 MHz frequency subdivisions, typically referred to in analog broadcasting as channels, having an analog broadcast signal composed of analog video and analog audio, and include Broadcast TV Systems Committee (BTSC) stereo and Secondary Audio Program (SAP) audio. Referring again to , the downstream direction transmission signals, having been multiplexed, and in one embodiment using FDM, are often referred to as in-band transmission signals and include the ATSs  and Digital Transmission Signals (DTSs) , ,  (also known as Digital Transport Signals). These transmission signals carry video, audio, and data services. For example, these transmission signals may carry television signals, Internet data, or any additional types of data, such as Interactive Program Guide (IPG) data. Additionally, as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art, additional data can be sent with the analog video image in the Vertical Blanking Interval (VBI) of the video signal and stored in DHCT memory or a DHCT local physical storage device (not shown). It should be appreciated, however, that the amount of data that can be transmitted in the VBI of the analog video signal is typically significantly less than data transmitted in a DTS.","Like the ATSs , the DTSs , ,  each typically occupies 6 MHz of the RF spectrum. However, the DTSs , ,  are digital transmission signals consisting of 64- or 256-Quadrature Amplitude Modulated (QAM) digital signals preferably formatted using Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) standards such as MPEG-2 transport streams, allocated in a separate frequency range. The MPEG-2 transport stream enables transmission of a plurality of DTS types over each 6 MHz RF subdivision, as compared to a 6 MHz ATS. The three types of digital transport signals illustrated in  include broadcast digital transmission signals , carousel digital transmission signals , and on-demand transmission signals .","MPEG-2 transport may be used to multiplex video, audio, and data in each of these DTSs. However, because an MPEG-2 transport stream allows for multiplexed video, audio, and data into the same stream, the DTSs do not necessarily have to be allocated in separate 6 MHz RF frequencies, unlike the ATSs  in one embodiment. On the other hand, each DTS is capable of carrying multiple broadcast digital media content instances, multiple cycling data carousels containing broadcast data, and data requested on-demand by the subscriber. Data is formatted, such as in Internet Protocol (IP), mapped into MPEG-2 packets, and inserted into the multiplexed MPEG-2 transport stream. Encryption can be applied to the data stream for security so that the data may be received only by authorized DHCTs. The authorized DHCT  is provided with the mechanisms to receive, among other things, additional data or enhanced services. Such mechanisms can include \u201ckeys\u201d that are required to decrypt encrypted data.","Each 6 MHz RF subdivision assigned to a digital transmission signal (DTS) can carry the video and audio streams of the media content instances of multiple television (TV) stations, as well as media content and data that is not necessarily related to those TV media content instances, as compared to one TV channel broadcast over one ATS  that consumes the entire 6 MHz. The digital data is inserted into MPEG transport streams carried through each 6 MHz frequency subdivision assigned for digital transmission, and then demultiplexed at the subscriber DHCT so that multiple sets of data can be produced within each tuned 6 MHz frequency span, or subdivision.","Although broadcast in nature, the carousel DTSs  and on-demand DTSs  offer different functionality. Continuing with , the broadcast DTSs  and carousel DTSs  typically function as continuous feed for indefinite time, whereas the on-demand DTSs  are continuous feeds sessions for a limited time. In one embodiment, all DTS types are capable of being transmitted at high data rates. The broadcast DTSs  carry typical data comprising multiple digitally-MPEG-2 compressed and formatted TV source signals and other continuously fed data information. The carousel DTSs  carry broadcast media content or data that is systematically broadcast in a cycling fashion but updated and revised as needed. Thus, the carousel DTSs  serve to carry high volume data such as media content and data and possibly, other data at high data rates. The carousel DTSs  preferably carry data formatted in directories and files by a Broadcast File System (BFS) (not shown), which is used for producing and transmitting data streams throughout the STS , and which provides an efficient means for the delivery of application executables and application media content and data to the DHCT, as will be described below. Media content and data received by the DHCT  in such manner can then be saved in the DHCT memory and\/or transferred to the DHCT storage device for later use. The on-demand DTSs , on the other hand, can carry particular information such as compressed video and audio pertaining to subscriber requested media content instance preview and\/or media content instance descriptions, as well as other specialized data information.","Preferably, the User-to-Network Download Protocol of the MPEG-2 standard's DSM-CC specification (Digital Storage Media\u2014Command and Control) provides the data carousel protocol used for broadcasting data from a server located at the headend , or located elsewhere. It also provides the interactive download protocol for reliable downloading of data from a server (possibly the same server) to an individual DHCT through the on-demand DTSs. Each carousel and on-demand DTS is preferably defined by a DSM-CC session. Therefore, some of the basic functionality reflected in the DHCT  when the DHCT does not have a local physical storage device is somewhat similar to a networked computer (i.e., a computer without a persistent storage device), in addition to traditional set top box functionality, as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. A DHCT  with a storage device reduces data access latency when the data is stored in the local physical storage device ahead of time.","Also shown in  are Out-Of-Band (OOB) signals that provide continuously available two-way signaling to the subscribers' DHCT  regardless of which in-band signals are tuned to by the individual DHCT in-band tuners. The OOB signals consist of a Forward Data Signal (FDS)  and a Reverse Data Signal (RDS) . The OOB signals can comply to any one of a number of well known transport protocols, but preferably comply to either a Digital Audio Visual Council (DAVIC)1.1 Transport Protocol with FDS of 1.544 mega-bits per second (Mbps) or more using quadrature phase shift keying (QPSK) modulation and an RDS of 1.544 Mbps or more using QPSK modulation; or to a Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS) Transport Protocol with FDS of 27 Mbps using 64-QAM modulation and a RDS of 1.544 Mbps or more using QPSK modulation or 16-QAM modulation. The OOB signals provide the two-way operation of the network, which allows for subscriber interactivity with the applications and services provided by the network. Furthermore, the OOB signals are not limited to a 6 MHz spectrum, but generally to a smaller spectrum, such as 1.5 or 3 MHz.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["11","10","12","12","11","11","11","11","18"]},"In a typical system, the programming, services and other information from content providers can be distributed according to a variety of mechanisms. The input signals may be transmitted from sources to the headend  via a variety of transmission paths, including satellites (not shown), and terrestrial broadcast transmitters and antennas (not shown). The headend  can also receive media content from a direct feed source  via a direct line . Other input sources from content providers include a video camera , analog input source , or an application server . The application server  may include more than one line of communication. One or more components such as analog input source , input source , video camera , and application server  can be located external to the headend , as shown, or internal to the headend  as would be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art. The signals provided by the content or programming input sources can include a single media content instance or a multiplex that includes several media content instances.","The headend  generally includes one or more receivers  that are each associated with a content source. MPEG encoders, such as encoder , are included for digitally encoding local programming or a real-time feed from video camera , or the like. The encoder  outputs the respective compressed video and audio streams corresponding to the analog audio\/video signal received at its input. For example, encoder  can output formatted MPEG-2 or MPEG-1 packetized elementary (PES) streams or transport streams compliant to the syntax and semantics of the ISO MPEG-2 standard, respectively. The PES or transport streams may be multiplexed with input signals from the switch , the receiver  and the control system . The multiplexing logic  processes the input signals and multiplexes at least a portion of the input signals into the transport stream . The analog input source  can provide an analog audio\/video broadcast signal that can be input into a modulator . From the modulator , a modulated analog output signal can be combined at a combiner  along with other modulated signals for transmission into a transmission medium . Alternatively, the analog audio\/video broadcast signal from the analog input source  can be input into modulator . Alternatively, the analog audio\/video broadcast signal can be input directly from the modulator  to the transmission medium . The analog broadcast media content instances are transmitted via respective RF channels, each assigned for transmission of an analog audio\/video signal such as National Television Standards Committee (NTSC) video, as described in association with .","The switch, such as an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) switch , provides an interface to an application server . There can be multiple application servers  providing a variety of services such as a Pay-Per-View service, including video on demand (VOD), a data service, an Internet service, a network system, or a telephone system. Service and content providers may download media content to an application server located within the STS  (). The application server  may be located within the headend  or elsewhere within the STS , such as in a hub  (). The various inputs into the headend  are then combined with the other information from the control system , which is specific to the STS , such as local programming and control information, which can include, among other things, conditional access information. The headend  contains one or more modulators  to convert the received transport streams  into modulated output signals suitable for transmission over the transmission medium  through the network . Each modulator  may be a multimodulator including a plurality of modulators, such as, but not limited to, QAM modulators, that radio frequency modulate at least a portion of the transport streams  to become output transport streams . The output signals  from the various modulators  or multimodulators are combined, using equipment such as the combiner , for input into the transmission medium , which is sent via the in-band delivery path  to subscriber locations (not shown). The in-band delivery path  can include the DTSs , , , and the ATS , as described with .","In one embodiment, the server  also provides various types of data  to the headend . The data, in part, is received by the media access control functions  that output MPEG transport packets containing data  instead of digital audio\/video MPEG streams. The control system  enables the television system operator to control and monitor the functions and performance of the STS . The control system  interfaces with various components, via a communication link , in order to monitor and\/or control a variety of functions, including the frequency spectrum lineup of the programming for the STS , billing for each subscriber, and conditional access for the media content distributed to subscribers. Information, such as conditional access information, is communicated from the control system  to the multiplexing logic  where it is multiplexed into a transport stream .","Among other things, the control system  provides input to the modulator  for setting the operating parameters, such as selecting certain media content instances or portions of transport streams for inclusion in one or more output transport streams , system specific MPEG table packet organization, and\/or conditional access information. Control information and other data can be communicated to hubs  () and DHCTs  () via an in-band delivery path  or via an out-of-band delivery path .","The out-of-band data is transmitted via the out-of-band FDS  of transmission medium  by means such as, but not limited to, a QPSK modem array . Two-way communication utilizes the RDS  of the out-of-band delivery path . The hubs  () and DHCTs  () transmit out-of-band data through the transmission medium , and the out-of-band data is received in the headend  via the out-of-band RDS . The out-of-band data is routed through a router  to an application server  or to control system . The out-of-band control information includes such information as, among many others, a pay-per-view purchase instruction and a pause viewing command from the subscriber location to a video-on-demand type application server located internally or external to the headend , such as the application server , as well as any other data sent from the DHCT  or hubs , all of which will preferably be properly timed. The control system  also monitors, controls, and coordinates all communications in the subscriber television system, including video, audio, and data. The control system  can be located at the headend  or remotely. The transmission medium  distributes signals from the headend  to the other elements in the subscriber television system, such as a hub , a node , and subscriber locations (). The transmission medium  can incorporate one or more of a variety of media, including, for example, optical fiber, coaxial cable, and HFC, satellite, direct broadcast, or other transmission media.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["16","11","441","16","16","463","11","16","16","442","11","18","11","18"]},"The DHCT  further preferably includes one or more processors, such as processor , for controlling operations of the DHCT , an output system  for driving the television display , and at least one tuner system  for tuning into a particular television channel or frequency to display media content and for sending and receiving various types of data or media content to and from the headend . The DHCT  may include, in other embodiments, multiple tuners for receiving downloaded (or transmitted) media content. The tuner system  can select from a plurality of transmission signals () provided by the subscriber television system. The tuner system  enables the DHCT  to tune to downstream media and data transmissions, thereby allowing a user to receive digital or analog media content delivered in the downstream transmission via the subscriber television system. The tuner system  includes, in one implementation, an out-of-band tuner for bi-directional QPSK data communication and one or more QAM tuners (in band) for receiving television signals. Additionally, a receiver  receives externally generated information, such as user inputs or commands from an input device, such as remote control device , or other devices.","According to another embodiment of the invention, a telephone modem (not shown) in the DHCT  can be utilized for upstream data transmission and a headend , hub  () or other component located upstream in the STS  () can receive data from a telephone network corresponding with the telephone modem and can route the upstream data to a destination internal or external to the STS , such as an application data server in the headend  or content provider.","The DHCT  includes a signal processing system , which comprises a demodulating system  and a transport demultiplexing and parsing system  (herein demultiplexing system) to process broadcast media content and\/or data. One or more of the systems of the signal processing system  can be implemented with software, a combination of software and hardware, or preferably in hardware. The demodulating system  preferably comprises functionality for RF signal demodulation, either an analog transmission signal or a digital transmission signal. For instance, the demodulating system  can demodulate a digital transmission signal in a carrier frequency that was modulated, for example, as a QAM-modulated signal.","When tuned to a carrier frequency corresponding to an analog TV signal transmission, the demultiplexing system  is bypassed and the demodulated analog TV signal that is output by the demodulating system  is instead routed to an analog video decoder . The analog video decoder  converts the analog video signal (i.e., the video portion of a media content instance that comprises a video portion and an audio portion) received at its input into a respective non-compressed digital representation comprising a sequence of digitized pictures and their respective digitized audio. Presented at the input to the analog video decoder  is an analog video signal such as NTSC video comprising of audio and video. In one implementation, the video consists of a sequence of fields spaced apart at approximately one-sixtieth of a second. A pair of consecutive fields constitutes a picture. The odd field contains the odd-numbered lines of the picture and the even field contains the even-numbered lines of the picture. The analog video decoder  outputs the corresponding sequence of digitized pictures and respective digitized audio. Each picture is a two dimensional entity of picture elements and each picture element contains a respective set of values. A picture element value comprises luminance and chrominance information that are representative of brightness and color information at the spatial location of the picture element within the picture.","Digitized pictures and respective audio output by the analog video decoder  are presented at the input of a compression engine . Digitized pictures and respective audio output by analog video decoder  can also be presented to an input of a media engine  via an interface (not shown) dedicated for non-compressed digitized analog video and audio, such as ITU- (International Telecommunications Union or ITU), for display on the TV . The compression engine  is coupled to localized, dedicated memory , preferably DRAM (not shown), for input and processing of the input digitized pictures and their respective digitized audio. Alternatively, the compression engine  can have its own integrated memory (not shown). The compression engine  processes the sequence of digitized pictures and digitized audio and converts them into a video compressed stream and an audio compressed stream, respectively. The compressed audio and video streams are produced in accordance with the syntax and semantics of a designated audio and video coding method, such as specified by the MPEG-2 audio and MPEG-2 video ISO (International Organization for Standardization or ISO) standard, so that they can be interpreted by a video decoder (video decompression engine)  and audio decoder (audio decompression engine)  for decompression and reconstruction at a future time. Each compressed stream consists of a sequence of data packets containing a header and a payload. Each header contains a unique program identification, or PID, associated with the respective compressed stream.","The compression engine  multiplexes the audio and video compressed streams into a transport stream, such as an MPEG-2 transport stream, for output. Furthermore, the compression engine  can compress audio and video corresponding to more than one media content instance in parallel (e.g., from two tuned analog TV signals) and to multiplex the respective audio and video compressed streams into a single transport stream. Output of compressed streams and\/or transport streams produced by the compression engine  is input to the signal processing system . Parsing capabilities  within the signal processing system  allow for interpretation of sequence and picture headers, for instance, annotating their locations within their respective compressed stream for future retrieval from a storage device . A compressed analog media content instance (e.g., TV program episode or show) corresponding to a tuned analog transmission channel can be output as a transport stream by the signal processing system  and presented as input for storage in the storage device  via an interface  as will be described below. The packetized compressed streams can be also output by the signal processing system  and presented as input to the media engine  for decompression by the video decompression engine  and the audio decompression engine  for its display on TV , as will be described below.","The demultiplexing system  can include MPEG-2 transport demultiplexing. When tuned to carrier frequencies carrying a digital transmission signal, the demultiplexing system  enables the separation of packets of data, corresponding to the compressed streams of information belonging to the desired media content instances, for further processing. Concurrently, the demultiplexing system  precludes packets in the multiplexed transport stream that are irrelevant or not desired, such as packets of data corresponding to compressed streams of media content instances of other media content signal sources (e.g., other TV channels), from further processing.","The parsing capabilities of the demultiplexing system  includes reading and interpreting the received transport stream without disturbing its content, such as to interpret sequence and picture headers, for instance, to annotate their locations within their respective compressed stream for future retrieval from the storage device . Thus, the components of the signal processing system  are capable of QAM demodulation, forward error correction, and demultiplexing MPEG-2 transport streams, and parsing elementary streams and packetized elementary streams. A compressed media content instance corresponding to a tuned carrier frequency carrying a digital transmission signal can be output as a transport stream by the signal processing system  and presented as input for storage in the storage device  via the interface  as will be described below. The packetized compressed streams can be also output by the signal processing system  and presented as input to the media engine  for decompression by the video decompression engine  and the audio decompression engine  as will be described below.","One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the signal processing system  will preferably include other components not shown, including memory, decryptors, samplers, digitizers (e.g., analog-to-digital converters), and multiplexers, among other components. Further, other embodiments will be understood, by those having ordinary skill in the art, to be within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the present invention, including analog signals (e.g., NTSC) that bypass one or more elements of the signal processing system  and are forwarded directly to the output system . Further, outputs presented at corresponding next-stage inputs for the aforementioned signal processing flow may be connected via accessible memory  in which the outputting device stores the output data and the inputting device thereafter inputs the output data written to memory  by the respective outputting device. Outputting and inputting devices include the analog video decoder , the compression engine , the media engine , the signal processing system , and components or subcomponents thereof. Further, it will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art that components of the signal processing system  can be spatially located in different areas of the DHCT . Further, it will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art that, although the components of the signal processing system  are illustrated as being in communication with an incoming signal from the communications interface , the signal may not necessarily be in the order shown for all signals.","The DHCT  also includes the media engine , which includes the digital video decoder  (also known as video decompression engine), and the digital audio decoder  (also known as audio decompression engine), and other digital signal processing components not shown, as would be appreciated by those having ordinary skill in the art. For example, the demultiplexing system  is in communication with the tuner system  and the processor  to effect reception of digital compressed video streams, digital compressed audio streams, and data streams corresponding to one or more media content instances to be separated from other media content instances and\/or streams transported in the tuned transmission channel and to be stored in a first part (not shown) of DRAM  of DHCT  assigned to receive packets of a first or second media content instance. Other dedicated memory may also be used for media content instance packets.","Furthermore, while conducting this process, the demultiplexing system  demultiplexes and separates desired compressed streams from the received transport stream without disturbing its content. Further, the parser  parses (i.e., reads and interprets) compressed streams such as to interpret sequence headers and picture headers, and deposits a transport stream carrying compressed streams of a media content instance into DRAM . The processor  causes the transport stream in DRAM  to be transferred to the storage device  via the interface . Under program control by the processor , the demultiplexing system  in communication with the digital video decoder , the storage device , and the processor  effect notification and\/or transfer of received packets of one or more compressed streams corresponding to one or more media content instances from a first part of DRAM  to a second part (not shown) of DRAM  assigned to the digital video decoder  and the digital audio decoder . Alternatively, the media engine  can have access to a dedicated localized DRAM (not shown). Upon demultiplexing and parsing the transport stream carrying one or more media content instances, the signal processing system  outputs to DRAM  ancillary data in the form of a table or data structure (not shown) comprising the relative or absolute location of the beginning of certain pictures in the compressed media content instance for convenience in retrieval during future operations.","In another embodiment, according to a plurality of tuners, and respective number of demodulating systems , demultiplexing systems , and signal processing systems , a respective number of broadcast digital media content instances are received and routed to the hard disk  of the storage device  simultaneously. Alternatively, a single demodulating system , a single demultiplexing system , and a single signal processing system , each with sufficient processing capabilities can serve to process more than one digital media content instance.","In another embodiment according to the aforementioned description, a first tuner of the tuning system  receives an analog video signal corresponding to a first media content instance and a second tuner receives a digital compressed stream corresponding to a second media content instance. The first media content instance is processed as an analog signal and the second media content instance is processed as a digital compressed stream as described above.","In one implementation, the compression engine  can output formatted MPEG-2 or MPEG-1 packetized elementary streams (PES) inside a transport stream, all compliant to the syntax and semantics of the ISO MPEG-2 standard. Alternatively, the compression engine  can output other digital formats that are compliant to other standards. The digital compressed streams output by the compression engine  corresponding to a media content instance are deposited in local memory for the compression engine  and routed to the demultiplexing system . The demultiplexing system  parses (i.e., reads and interprets) the transport stream generated by the compression engine  without disturbing its content, such as to interpret picture headers, and deposits the transport stream into DRAM . The processor  causes the transport stream in DRAM  to be transferred to the storage device . While parsing the transport stream, the demultiplexing system  outputs to memory  ancillary data in the form of a table or data structure (not shown) comprising the relative or absolute location of the beginning of certain pictures in the compressed media content stream for the media content instance for convenience in retrieval during future operations. In this way, random access operations such as fast forward, rewind, and jumping to a location in the compressed media content instance can be attained.","In another embodiment, according to a plurality of tuners, a respective number of analog video decoders , and a respective number of compression engines , the aforementioned compression of analog video and audio is performed and routed to the hard disk  of the storage device  simultaneously on a respective number of analog media content instances. Alternatively, a single compression engine with sufficient processing capabilities can serve to compress more than one analog media content instance.","One or more programmed software applications are executed by utilizing the computing resources in the DHCT . Note that an application typically includes a client part and a server counterpart that cooperate to provide the complete functionality of the application. The applications may be resident in FLASH memory  or downloaded (or uploaded) into DRAM . Applications stored in FLASH memory  or DRAM  are executed by the processor  (e.g., a central processing unit or digital signal processor) under the auspices of the operating system . Data required as input by an application is stored in DRAM  or FLASH memory  and read by the processor  as need be during the course of application execution. Input data may be data stored in DRAM  by a secondary application or other source, either internal or external to the DHCT , or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application at the time it was generated as a software application, in which case it is stored in FLASH memory . Data generated by an application is stored in DRAM  by the processor  during the course of application execution. DRAM  also includes application memory  that various applications may use for storing and\/or retrieving data.","An application referred to as a navigator  is also resident in FLASH memory  for providing a navigation framework for services provided by the DHCT . The navigator  registers for and in some cases reserves certain user inputs related to navigational keys such as channel increment\/decrement, last channel, favorite channel, etc. The navigator  also provides users with television related menu options that correspond to DHCT functions such as, for example, blocking a channel or a group of channels from being displayed in a channel menu presented on a screen display.","The FLASH memory  also contains a platform library . The platform library  is a collection of utilities useful to applications, such as a timer manager, a compression manager, a configuration manager, a hyper text markup language (HTML) parser, a database manager, a widget toolkit, a string manager, and other utilities (not shown). These utilities are accessed by applications via application programming interfaces (APIs) as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities. Two components of the platform library  that are shown in  are a window manager  and a service application manager (SAM) client .","The window manager  provides a mechanism for implementing the sharing of the screen regions and user input. The window manager  on the DHCT  is responsible for, as directed by one or more applications, implementing the creation, display, and de-allocation of the limited DHCT  screen resources. It allows multiple applications to share the screen by assigning ownership of screen regions, or windows. The window manager  also maintains, among other things, a user input registry  in DRAM  so that when a user enters a key or a command via the remote control device  or another input device such as a keyboard or mouse, the user input registry  is accessed to determine which of various applications running on the DHCT  should receive data corresponding to the input key and in which order. As an application is executed, it registers a request to receive certain user input keys or commands. When the user presses a key corresponding to one of the commands on the remote control device , the command is received by the receiver  and relayed to the processor . The processor  dispatches the event to the operating system  where it is forwarded to the window manager  which ultimately accesses the user input registry  and routes data corresponding to the incoming command to the appropriate application.","The SAM client  is a client component of a client-server pair of components, with the server component (not shown) being located on the headend , preferably in the control system  (). A SAM database  (i.e., structured data such as a database or data structure) in DRAM  includes a data structure of services and a data structure of channels that are created and updated by the headend . Herein, database will refer to a database, structured data or other data structures as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Many services can be defined using the same application component, with different parameters. Examples of services include, without limitation and in accordance with one implementation, presenting television instances (available through a WatchTV application ), pay-per-view events (available through a PPV application ), digital music (not shown), media-on-demand (available through an MOD application ), and an interactive program guide (IPG) . In general, the identification of a service includes the identification of an executable application that provides the service along with a set of application-dependent parameters that indicate to the application the service to be provided. As an example, a service of presenting a television instance (media content instance) could be executed by the WatchTV application  with a set of parameters specifying the HBO to view HBO or with a separate set of parameters to view CNN. Each association of the application component (tune video) and one parameter component (HBO or CNN) represents a particular service that has a unique service I.D. The SAM client  also interfaces with the resource manager  to control resources of the DHCT .","Applications can also be downloaded into DRAM  at the request of the SAM client , typically in response to a request by the user or in response to a message from the headend . In the example DHCT  illustrated in , DRAM  includes a media-on-demand (MOD) application , an e-mail application , PVR application , and a web browser application . It should be clear to one with ordinary skill in the art that these applications are not limiting and merely serve as examples for embodiments of the invention. Furthermore, one or more DRAM based applications may be resident, as an alternative embodiment, in FLASH memory . These applications, and others provided by the subscriber television system operator, are top-level software entities on the network for providing services to the user.","In one implementation, applications executing on the DHCT  work with the navigator  by abiding by several guidelines. First, an application utilizes the SAM client  for the provision, activation, and suspension of services. Second, an application shares DHCT  resources with other applications and abides by the resource management policies of the SAM client , the operating system , and the DHCT . Third, an application handles situations where resources are only available with navigator  intervention. Fourth, when an application loses service authorization while providing a service, the application suspends the service via the SAM (the navigator  will reactivate an individual service application when it later becomes authorized). Finally, an application is designed to not have access to certain user input keys reserved by the navigator (i.e., power, channel +\/\u2212, volume +\/\u2212, etc.).","The MOD application  provides the user with lists of available media content titles for each media content instance to choose from and with media content instances requested by the user. The MOD application  provides media content to the user by engaging, typically, in a direct two-way IP (Internet Protocol) connection with VOD content servers (not shown) that would be located, in one embodiment, in the headend .","An executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system (OS) component, or to a client platform component, or to an application, or to respective parts thereof, can reside in and execute out of DRAM  and\/or FLASH memory . Likewise, data input into or output from any executable program can reside in DRAM  or FLASH memory . Furthermore, an executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system component, or to a client platform component, or to an application, or to respective parts thereof, can reside in FLASH memory , or in a local storage device (such as storage device ) externally connected to or integrated into the DHCT  and be transferred into DRAM  for execution. Likewise, data input for an executable program can reside in FLASH memory  or a storage device and be transferred into DRAM  for use by an executable program or algorithm. In addition, data output by an executable program can be written into DRAM  by an executable program or algorithm and be transferred into FLASH memory  or into a storage device. In other embodiments, the executable code is not transferred, but instead, functionality is effected by other mechanisms.","The DHCT  can also include one or more wireless or wired interfaces, also called communication ports , for receiving and\/or transmitting data to other devices. For instance, the DHCT  may feature USB (Universal Serial Bus), Ethernet (for connection to a computer), IEEE-1394 (for connection to media content devices in an entertainment center), serial, and\/or parallel ports. The user inputs may be, for example, provided by an input device including a computer or transmitter with buttons or keys located either on the exterior of the terminal or by a hand-held remote control device  or keyboard that includes user-actuated buttons, or even aural input (e.g., voice activated).","The DHCT  includes at least one storage device  to provide storage for downloaded media content. The storage device  can be an optical storage device or a magnetic storage device, among others, and is preferably a hard disk drive. The storage device  comprises storage for media content and\/or data that can be written to for storage and later read from for retrieval for presentation. The storage device  preferably includes at least one hard disk . Throughout this disclosure, references relating to writing to or reading from the storage device , or references regarding recordings from or to the storage device  will be understood to mean that such read or write operations are occurring to the actual medium (for example, the hard disk ) of the storage device . The storage device  is also comprised of a controller  that receives operating instructions from the device driver  of the operating system  (as described below) and implements those instructions to cause read and\/or write operations to the hard disk .","Referring again to , the storage device  is preferably internal to the DHCT , coupled to a common bus through a communication interface , preferably an integrated drive electronics (IDE) interface or small computer system interface (SCSI), although IEEE-1394 or USB can be used. In other embodiments, the storage device  can be externally connected to (and thus removable from) the DHCT  via a communication port  implemented as IEEE-1394 or USB or as a data interface port such as a SCSI or an IDE interface. In one implementation, under the auspices of the real-time operating system  (as described below) and executed by the processor , and in coordination with the personal video recording (PVR) application , the device driver , and the device controller  (the latter three components described below), downloaded media content (herein understood to also refer to other types of data, in addition to, or instead of, media content instances) are received in the DHCT  via the communications interface , processed as described above, and stored in a temporary cache (not shown) in memory . The temporary cache is implemented and managed to enable media content transfers from the temporary cache to the storage device , or, in concert with the insertion of a newly arriving media content into the temporary cache.","In one implementation, the fast access time and high data transfer rate characteristics of the storage device  enables media content to be read from the temporary cache in memory  and written to the storage device  in a sufficiently fast manner. Orchestration of multiple simultaneous data transfer operations is effected so that while media content is being transferred from the cache in memory  to the storage device , new media content is received and stored in the temporary cache of memory . In other implementations, the downloaded media content is received through the communications port  in the DHCT  and then transferred directly to the storage device , thus bypassing the temporary cache. Writes to the hard disk are coordinated between the PVR application  (described below), the operating system , the device driver , and the storage device controller .","The processor  in communication generally with the device driver  and the storage device controller  and the demultiplexing system  effect retrieval of compressed video streams, compressed audio streams, and data streams corresponding to one or more media content instances from the storage device . Retrieved streams are deposited in an output cache in the storage device  and transferred to DRAM , and then processed for playback according to mechanisms well known to those having ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments, one or more media content instances are retrieved and routed from the hard disk  to the video and audio decoding system  and  simultaneously, and then further processed for eventual presentation on a display device or other device.","The PVR application  provides for media content recording functionality by enabling the temporary writing to, and if requested, more permanent recording (i.e., relatively permanent) to the storage device . Media content can be transmitted (or downloaded) from a remote location, such as, for example, a remote server located in the headend , or from a home communication network, or from other consumer electronic devices. The downloaded media content that is received at each tuner of the tuner system  is temporarily buffered, or stored, on the hard disk  of the storage device .","The general settings application  provides for operating system-like functionality to aid the user in navigating through the various user interface screens as well as provide background functionality for the various applications. Although shown as a separate application in FLASH memory , in some embodiments the general settings application  can be integrated with the operating system . Further, although shown stored in FLASH memory , in some embodiments, all or a portion of the data for the general settings menu can be stored in the storage device . The general settings application  includes, among other modules, a parental control system  for authorizing, or enabling, access to defined media content, as will be described below. The parental control system  includes mechanisms to provide for administrator level user interface screens that can be used by an administrator to enable access to media content, as will be described below. The general settings application  also includes a parental control database  for storing personal identification numbers (PIN) of enabled authorization levels and for associating (for example via pointers to) the authorized media content with a particular PIN. In other embodiments, the parental control system  and\/or database  can be maintained and implemented, at least in part, at the headend  (), or at a hub implemented as a mini-headend. In addition, the parental control system  and\/or database , or its functionality, can be incorporated into many applications, and is not so limited to the general settings application described above. For example, the parental control system functionality can be implemented with the interactive program guide (IPG) application  and work with the content that is presented through the IPG. In other embodiments, the parental control functionality can be integrated with the middleware and\/or the operating system  so that all of the application-clients can be \u201capproved\u201d through the positive parental control before some or even any part of the application is accessible to specific users.","A display channel is selected, and changed, by a user, typically via pressing a key or button on a remote control device, such as that depicted in . Record button  enables the user to designate as permanently recorded any media content instance received by the DHCT . The \u201cA\u201d 581, \u201cB\u201d 582, and \u201cC\u201d 583 buttons can correspond to certain application-defined functions that have a corresponding \u201cA\u201d, \u201cB\u201d, or \u201cC\u201d symbol displayed in a graphics user interface (GUI) presented on a display device. Similarly, up arrow button  and down arrow button  and select button  will be used to provide functionality to like-displayed symbols on a GUI. Number buttons  enable the user to select a display channel for viewing media content. Many alternative methods of providing user input may be used including a remote control device with different buttons and\/or button layouts, a keyboard device, a voice activated device, among others. The embodiments of the invention described herein are not limited by the type of device used to provide user input.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIGS. 6-25"},"At initialization, an installer can, based on direction from the administrator, or otherwise, activate parental controls or deactivate parental controls. Should the owner decide on having parental controls, the installer can provide the administrator with a password or personal identification number (PIN) (herein, the terminology password and PIN, and the corresponding functionality, will be referred to generally with the term \u201cPIN\u201d) that provides the administrator with access to all media content. In other embodiments, the administrator can be provided with a PIN that the administrator uses later to configure what media content the administrator will have access to, as well as what media content other users will have access to. Also at initialization, the installer and\/or administrator can enable media content to be defaulted to when any user powers-on a DHCT. For example, the weather channel can be configured as default media content when a DHCT  () is powered on (i.e., without the use of a PIN entry). In one case, should the administrator decide not to have any media content to default to, powering on the DHCT would result in a blank screen, or a screen with a message that indicates that no media content is enabled, with an additional message that instructs the user to see the administrator for further access.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["600","600","600","610","600","620","622","630","620","620","584","588","580","622","640","642","600","584","588"]},"The options, or categories, desired are selected using the select button  () on the remote control device  (), as suggested by the select buttonicon  on the example screen . Further description herein regarding the selection of the up and down arrow button icons  and  and the select button icon  on the display screen will herein be understood to mean selecting the remote control buttons corresponding to those displayed button icons. In other embodiments, the administrator can move a cursor to a desired option, or the administrator can be presented with a touch screen to scroll through and select desired options, or the example screen  can receive aural input commands. The scope of the preferred embodiments is not limited to the manner in which the user navigates through the example screen of , or other screens that follow. Further, future references to selecting the button icons on the screen will be understood to mean that the user selected the displayed button icon preferably by selecting the corresponding button on the remote control device , with the understanding that the other mechanisms listed above, among others, for navigating on the example screen are contemplated as being within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the invention. Finally, bottom portion  includes instructions that suggest to the user other navigation options.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","620","600","700","600","700","700","700","710","720","740","742","744","722","700","750"]},"The parental control main screen  includes several options in the parental control options menu  for enabling the administrator (or installer) to set-up and thus control the visual and\/or audio experience for all of the users of a particular home, social, or business entertainment network. These options in the parental control options menu  include, among others, an option for the installer or the administrator to set-up the user authorization levels for a particular DHCT  (). For example, the administrator can be one or both parents of a household that includes one or more children of like-age. For this example, the administrator scrolls the highlight block  to the \u201cset user authorization\u201d option and presses the select button icon . The resultant screen display is shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","810","820","822"]},"Highlighting one of the options in the user authorization levels menu , such as the child authorization level option, causes text messages in the sub-screen display  to confirm to the administrator the status of authorization for the highlighted authorization level. In this example, the child authorization level option, according to the text message in the subscreen display , has not yet been enabled. The message instructs the administrator to press the select button icon  to enable access for the child authorization level. Bottom portion  provides the administrator with the ability to personalize authorization levels using the \u201cB\u201d button icon . Although the authorization levels menu  is shown with three authorization levels that include parent, teen, and child, more authorization levels can be configured and\/or selected and shown, such as, for example, mom, dad, child 1, child 2, teen 1, etc. In some embodiments, user authorization levels may simply be categorized into administrator and non-administrator categories. Further, the pre-configured authorization levels can be personalized through navigation to another screen by selecting the personalized authorization levels (\u201cB\u201d) button icon  from the bottom portion , which results in a personalized authorization levels screen (not shown) that allows the administrator to enter a name for each category, according to well-known naming and identification mechanisms. Bottom portion  also enables the administrator to return to the parental control main screen  () by selecting the \u201cC\u201d button icon .","Continuing with the example, assume the user chooses the select button icon  for the highlighted child authorization level option. This action results in the display of the enabled access main screen  shown in . From the enabled access main screen , the administrator can enable the media content for the child authorization level, as well as other authorization levels. The enabled access main screen  includes a header  identifying the screen and providing instruction on how to enable access. Also included is an enable categories menu  that provides a list of pre-configured categories that the administrator can scroll through and choose, by category, how user access to the different types of media content will be enabled. The enable categories menu  can include, among other categories, display channel number, IPG select, VOD select, PPV select, WatchTV select, genre, Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) rating, service, user-configured, and time of viewing. The administrator can choose one or more of these categories to enable viewing.","As an example of how these categories are used, consider the display channel number category. The display channel number category enables an administrator to enable user access to the media content by a particular display channel. For example, by selecting the display channel category, another screen (not shown) can be presented that lists all of the display channels available. By selecting, for example, display channel , the administrator is enabling the user to view all media content that is resourced from display channel  (in addition to any media content available for viewing as default media content selected by the administrator). Similarly, the administrator may know that the media content of interest on display channel  is ESPN, and thus the user can enable by selecting the WatchTV service and selecting the programming ESPN.","The categories IPG select, VOD select, PPV select, and WatchTV select provide various display screens from which the administrator can make individual media content instance selections. For example, by selecting the IPG select, the administrator can be presented with an IPG screen with parental control icons listed in each media content instance entry of the IPG screen that the administrator can configure to provide enabled viewing. The VOD, PPV, WatchTV, and IPG select option will be described below.","The genre category provides the administrator with enabled viewing selections by comedy, drama, action, and other genres. For example, by selecting comedy, all media content with meta data indicating that it includes comedy can be enabled for viewing. Various recognized rating systems can be used as categories, such as the MPAA rating system, among others. Thus, the administrator can select a rating under the MPAA system, for example, and all media content matching that rating will be enabled for viewing.","The user-configured option (not shown) enables the administrator to enter a key word, such as the title of a media content instance like an animated weekly broadcast show such as, Little Mermaid, to be enabled. In one implementation, the administrator can be presented with a screen display (not shown) that provides letters corresponding to the numbers on the remote control device  () to enable the administrator to select a keyword of interest. In other embodiments, a media content instance title category can be pre-configured and displayed on its own screen. Further screens (not shown) can be employed to decide the source (for example, from what display channels or programming) of Little Mermaid, and whether to enable all episodes, a single episode, or episodes within a defined time zone, etc.","The time of viewing category can be employed to enable viewing by time. For example, if the 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM option included in the time of viewing category is selected, the user will be able to view only media content presented during that time period.","Sub-screen display  provides the PIN for the child authorization, which is preferably randomly generated after the child authorization level is enabled from the user authorization levels-main screen  (). In other embodiments, the PIN can be configured by the administrator. The sub-screen display  also provides visual feedback of the categories selected in the enable categories menu , as will be described below. Bottom portion  includes a return to user authorization level screen (\u201cB\u201d) button icon , which enables the administrator to enable other authorization levels at this point. A linking (\u201cA\u201d) button icon  is used to link enabled user authorization levels.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0105","num":"0104"},"figref":"FIG. 9B","b":["980","982"]},"Assume the administrator has selected the IPG select option under highlight block  of , which results in the display of the administrator IPG screen  of  that preferably only the administrator has access to. Each block  of the administrator IPG screen  preferably includes the title of a media content instance for the corresponding presentation time, along with a parental control icon in the corner of each block that is configurable as non-enabled (closed) or enabled (open). In other embodiments, other configurable symbols can be used in each block , including a stop sign, a traffic signal, an \u201cX\u201d or check mark or other symbol, and even different shades or colors that distinguish between enabled and non-enabled access. This screen  enables the administrator to select media content at the individual media content instance level for enabled viewing for the child authorization level (or any authorization level). By highlighting one of the blocks , such as the block including Little Mermaid, and pressing the approve button icon \u201cB\u201d , the Little Mermaid is enabled as media content that is approved for viewing by a user with PIN access to the child authorization level for that episode, as reflected by the change in the displayed icon of the block (now open) including Little Mermaid depicted in . Note that the same or similar process can occur when the administrator chooses the VOD, PPV, or WatchTV select option from the enabled access main screen  shown in . For example, if the administrator selects the VOD select option from the enabled access main screen , the example administrator VOD catalog screen shown in  can be displayed that also provides an approve button icon  for a highlighted option as well as, in some embodiments, the visual feedback of the parental control icon (or other feedback mechanisms or symbols as described above). As another example, if the administrator selected the WatchTV select option from the enabled access screen , the administrator can select particular service programming (e.g., CNN, HBO, or ESPN, for example) to watch in real-time that has a parental control icon (or other similar functional equivalents) in the corner of the display screen, such as that shown in the example real-time display screen of . The administrator can use the remote control device  (), in one embodiment, and press the \u201cB\u201d button icon  on the remote control device , as suggested by the \u201cB\u201d next to the parental control icon, resulting in enabled access for a displayed media content instance.","In other embodiments, after selecting the approve button icon \u201cB\u201d (or other button icons configured with similar functionality) within any of the displayed screens of , the administrator can be presented with another screen, such as approval screen  in , that enables the administrator to select Little Mermaid (or other media content instances) for the episode displayed in the administrator IPG screen, VOD catalog, or real-time display screen as described above, or for other episodes on the selected display channel or other display channels.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0107"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 10B","FIG. 14"],"b":["1300","1320","1322"]},"Assume the user has scrolled through the enable by service menu  of the enabled access service screen  to the highlighted option, WatchTV. Preferably, once within the selected service category (such as WatchTV or the other service screens like games, CD's, etc), each screen (following a selection) takes the administrator to increasing levels of refinement in the enablement of the particular service selected through a series of sub-category screens, as will be described below. In other embodiments, the administrator can be presented with a plurality of overlapping screens, or windows, from which to further refine a particular category. Bottom portion  provides the administrator with the ability to return to enable other user authorization levels (\u201cB\u201d button icon ) or to enable by other categories (\u201cC\u201d button icon ). In this example, the administrator has highlighted and selected the Watch TV option from the enable by service menu , resulting in the displayed screen of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0109"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14","FIGS. 15-18","FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 16"],"b":["1400","1520","1300","1500","1520","1550","1552","1554","1556","1520"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0111","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 17"],"b":["1620","1660","333","1620"]},"As shown by the sub-screen display  of the enabled access service sub-category screen  of , the administrator has now enabled the child authorization level for access to the Little Mermaid and to all live and animated Disney programming under the WatchTV service. The administrator is presented with an enable by genre menu , which enables the administrator to select whether the child authorization level will have access to comedies, drama, suspense, horror, and other genres within the currently enabled WatchTV categories. In this example, the administrator decides to skip to the next sub-category screen by selecting the \u201cA\u201d button icon , which results in the example screen display of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 19"],"b":["1800","1800","1820","1820","1900","1960"]},"From the enabled access service screen  of , the administrator can select another service from the enable by service menu , or the administrator can select the service last selected to add other programming and corresponding levels of enablement within other selected programming. For example, if the administrator wants to add other programming or select other services for enablement, the administrator can return to the enabled access main screen  of  by selecting the \u201cC\u201d button icon  in the enabled access service screen . From the enabled access main screen , the administrator can select other services including software, video on demand, etc. If the administrator desires to add other programming, he or she selects the \u201cenable by service\u201d category to evoke the enabled access service screen  (). From the enabled access service screen , the administrator can select the WatchTV service to evoke the enabled access service sub-categories screen  (). From this screen , the administrator can choose other programming, which will then prompt screens providing for further enabling refinement, similar to the mechanisms described above. The administrator is also presented with options in the bottom portion  that enables the administrator to return to the user authorization levels-main screen via selecting the \u201cB\u201d button icon , or return to the enabled access main screen via selecting the \u201cC\u201d button icon .","Assume the administrator has navigated his or her way back to the parental control main screen  (), where the administrator has decided on editing one of the authorization levels (for example, the child authorization level). The administrator highlights and selects the edit\/view option in the parental control options menu  of the example parental control main screen , resulting in the edit\/view main screen of . The user authorization levels menu  includes the two enabled authorization levels, the administrator and the child. The child authorization level is highlighted, and the corresponding enablement for the child authorization level is shown in the sub-screen display . The bottom portion  provides options for the administrator to add enablement (\u201cA\u201d button icon ), delete one or more of the currently enabled selections (\u201cB\u201d button icon ), or return to the parental control main screen (\u201cC\u201d button icon ). Selecting the \u201cA\u201d button icon  will result in an enabled access main screen, such as the enabled access main screen  shown in , which will allow the administrator to add additional enablement in a process similar to that described above for . Suppose the administrator decided that he or she wants to delete one or more of the enablement items selected previously. The administrator can select the \u201cB\u201d button icon , which results in the delete screen  shown in .","As shown in the delete screen  of , the administrator is presented with a current enabled access menu , which reflects the items previously enabled, as is also reflected in the sub-screen display . Selecting one of the enabled access options from the current enabled access menu  will result in the deletion of the highlighted option. Assume the user decides to retain all of his or her selections for the child authorization level, and thus returns to the parental control main screen via selection of the \u201cC\u201d button icon .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0116"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 22","FIG. 24"],"b":["2300","2320","2400","2454","2452"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0118","num":"0117"},"figref":"FIG. 25","b":["333","2500"]},"As described above, access to media content is enabled for real-time access. However, in some embodiments, particularly embodiments where access was enabled for a particular time period, media content that is enabled that falls outside of the enabled time period can still be recorded to the storage device  () of the DHCT  () and presented at a later time. A barker (not shown) can be presented, in some embodiments, that alerts the user to the existence of a time conflict, and provide the administrator the option to permanently record for later enabled viewing. Preferably, only enabled media content can be downloaded to the storage device  (), and thereafter retrieved for enabled access. Further, even rewinding through the media content temporarily stored in the storage device  will result in a display of the frames that were enabled.","The parental control system  of the present invention can be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or a combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment(s), the parental control system  is implemented in software or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware, as in an alternative embodiment, the parental control system  may be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies, which are all well known in the art: a discrete logic circuit(s) having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) having appropriate combinational logic gates, a programmable gate array(s) (PGA), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), etc.","The parental control system , which preferably comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions, can be embodied in any computer-readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as a computer-based system, processor-containing system, or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document, a \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d can be any means that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. The computer readable medium can be, for example but not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, device, or propagation medium. More specific examples (a nonexhaustive list) of the computer-readable medium would include the following: an electrical connection (electronic) having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette (magnetic), a random access memory (RAM) (electronic), a read-only memory (ROM) (electronic), an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory) (electronic), an optical fiber (optical), and a portable compact disc read-only memory (CDROM) (optical). Note that the computer-readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed, as the program can be electronically captured, via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium, then compiled, interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary, and then stored in a computer memory.","It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments of the present invention, particularly, any \u201cpreferred embodiments\u201d are merely possible examples of implementations, merely setting forth a clear understanding of the principles of the inventions. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit of the principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and present invention and protected by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The preferred embodiments of the invention can be better understood with reference to the following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present invention. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":"16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 10B","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 11A","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 11B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 16-18","FIG. 15","FIG. 15"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 18"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 20"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 21","FIG. 20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 22","FIG. 21"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 23","FIG. 22"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 24","FIG. 23"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 25"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
