---
title: Techniques for annotating portions of a document relevant to concepts of interest
abstract: An automatic reading assistance application for documents available in electronic form. An automatic annotator is provided which finds concepts of interest and keywords. The operation of the annotator is personalizable for a particular user. The annotator is also capable of improving its performance overtime by both automatic and manual feedback. The annotator is usable with any electronic document. Another available feature is a thumbnail image of all or part of a multi-page document wherein a currently displayed section of the document is highlighted in the thumbnail image. Movement of the highlighted area in the thumbnail image is then synchronized with scrolling through the document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07395501&OS=07395501&RS=07395501
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 07395501
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20020806
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/661,184 filed Sep. 13, 2000 (U.S. Pat. No. 6,457,026) which in turn is a divisional of and claims priority from U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/995,616 filed Dec. 22, 1997. The entire disclosures of U.S. application Ser. Nos. 09\/661,184 and 08\/995,616 are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.","The present invention relates to display of electronic documents and more particularly to method and apparatus for augmenting electronic document display with features to enhance the experience of reading an electronic document on a display.","Increasingly, readers of documents are being called upon to assimilate vast quantities of information in a short period of time. To meet the demands placed upon them, readers find they must read documents \u201chorizontally,\u201d rather than \u201cvertically,\u201d i.e., they must scan, skim, and browse sections of interest in multiple documents rather than read and analyze a single document from beginning to end.","Documents are now more and more available in electronic form. Some documents are available electronically by virtue of their having been locally created using word processing software. Other electronic documents are accessible via the Internet. Yet others may become available in electronic form by virtue of being scanned in, copied, or faxed. See commonly assigned U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/754,721, entitled AUTOMATIC AND TRANSPARENT DOCUMENT ARCHIVING, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.","However, the mere availability of documents in electronic form does not assist the reader in confronting the challenges of assimilating information quickly. Indeed, many time-challenged readers still prefer paper documents because of their portability and the ease of flipping through pages.","Certain tools exist to take advantage of the electronic form documents to assist harried readers. Tools exist to search for documents both on the Internet and locally. However, once the document is identified and retrieved, further search capabilities are limited to keyword searching. Automatic summarization techniques have also been developed but have limitations in that they are not personalized. They summarize based on general features found in sentences.","What is needed is a document display system that helps the reader find as well as assimilate the information he or she wants more quickly. The document display system should be easily personalizable and flexible as well.","An automatic reading assistance application for documents in electronic form is provided by virtue of the present invention. In certain embodiments, an automatic annotator is provided which finds concepts of interest and keywords. The operation of the annotator is personalizable for a particular user. The annotator is also capable of improving its performance overtime by both automatic and manual feedback. The annotator is usable with any electronic document. Another available feature is a elongated thumbnail image of all or part of a multi-page document wherein a currently displayed section of the document is emphasized in the elongated thumbnail image. Movement of the emphasized area in the elongated thumbnail image is then synchronized with scrolling through the document.","In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, a method for annotating an electronically stored document includes steps of: accepting user input indicating user-specific concepts of interest, analyzing the electronic document to identify locations of discussion of the user-specific concepts of interest, and displaying the electronic document with visual indications of the identified locations.","In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, a method for displaying a multi-page document includes steps of: displaying a elongated thumbnail image of a multi-page document in a first viewing area of a display, displaying a section of the multi-page document in a second viewing area of the display in legible form, emphasizing an area of the elongated thumbnail image corresponding to the section displayed in the second viewing area, accepting user input controlling sliding of the emphasized area through the thumbnail image, and scrolling the displayed section through the second viewing area responsive to the scrolling so that the emphasized area continues to correspond to the displayed section.","A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the inventions herein may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.","Computer System Usable for Implementing the Present Invention",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","10","12","14","16","18","20","22","24","26","28","30","32","33","33","34","18","36","28","40","16","32","33","32"]},"Annotated Document User Interface","The present invention provides a personalizable system for automatically annotating documents to locate concepts of interest to a particular user.  depicts one user interface  for viewing a document that has been annotated in accordance with the present invention. A first viewing area  shows a section of an electronic document. Using a scroll bar , or in other ways, the user may scroll the displayed section through the electronic document.","A series of concept check boxes  permit the user to select which concepts of interest are to be noted in the document. A sensitivity control  permits the user to select the degree of sensitivity to apply in identifying potential locations of relevant discussion. At low sensitivity, more locations will be denoted as being relevant, even though some may not be of any actual interest. At high sensitivity, most all denoted locations will in fact be relevant but some other relevant locations may be missed. After each concept name appearing by one of checkboxes  appears a percentage giving the relevance of the currently viewed document to the concept. These relevance levels offer a quick assessment of the relevance of the document to the selected concepts.  shows no annotations because a plain text view rather than an annotated view has been selected for first viewing area .","A thumbnail view  of the entire document is found in a second viewing area . Details of thumbnail view  will be discussed in greater detail below.","Miscellaneous navigation tools are found on a navigation toolbar . Miscellaneous annotation tools are found on an annotation toolbar . The annotation tools on annotation toolbar  facilitate navigation through a collection of documents.","According to the present invention, annotations may be added to the text displayed in first viewing area . The annotations denote text relevant to user-selected concepts. As will be explained further below, an automatic annotation system according to the present invention adds these annotations to any document available in electronic form. The document need not include any special information to assist in locating discussion of concepts of interest.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"],"b":["202","220","222","222"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 2C","b":["202","224"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2D","b":"226"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","302","304","306"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["300","400","400","402","403","404","406","402","403","408","402","400"]},"Automatic Annotation Software",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","504","502","506","508","506"]},"Annotation agent  adds the annotations to document  to prepare it for viewing by document browser . Processing by annotation agent  may be understood to be in three stages, a text processing stage , a content recognition stage , and a formatting stage . The input to text processing stage  is raw text. The output from text processing stage  and input to content recognition stage  is a parsed text stream, a text stream with formatting information such as special tags around particular words or phrases removed. The output from content recognition stage  and input to formatting stage  is an annotated text stream. The output of formatting stage  is a formatted text file viewable with document browser .","The processing of annotation agent  is preferably a run-time process. The annotations are not preferably pre-inserted into the text but are rather generated when user  requests document  for browsing. Thus, this is preferably a dynamic process. Annotation agent  may also, however, operate in the background as a batch process.","The annotation added by annotation agent  depends on concepts of interest selected by user . User  also inputs information used by annotation agent  to identify locations of discussion of concepts of interest in document . In a preferred embodiment, this information defines the structure of a Bayesian belief network. The concepts of interest and other user-specific information are maintained in a user profile file . User  employs a profile editor  to modify the contents of user profile file .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 5","FIG. 6A"],"b":["510","502","602","604","606","608","610","32"]},"Text processing stage  includes a file I\/O stage , an updating stage , and a language processing stage . File I\/O stage reads the document file from network . Updating stage  maintains a history of recently visited documents in a history file . Language processing stage  parses the text of document  to generate the parsed text output of text processing stage .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 6B","FIG. 5","FIG. 7"],"b":["512","620","510","516","622","624","622","624","516","620"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 6C","FIG. 5","FIG. 10"],"b":["514","514","626","512","506","514"]},"Pattern identification stage  looks for keywords and key phrases of interest and locates relevant discussion of concepts based on the located keywords. The identification of keywords and the application of the keywords to locating relevant discussion is preferably accomplished by reference to a belief system. The belief system is preferably a Bayesian belief network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["700","622","702","704","702","704","702","704","702"]},"The structure of Bayesian belief network  is only one possible structure applicable to the present invention. For example, one could employ a Bayesian belief network with more than two levels of hierarchy so that the presence of subconcepts is suggested by the presence of \u201csubsubconcepts\u201d and so on. In the preferred embodiment, presence of a keyword or key phrase always indicates presence of discussion of the subconcept but it is also possible to configure the belief network so that presence of a keyword or key phrase suggests discussion of the subconcept with a specified probability.","The primary source for the structure of Bayesian belief network  including the selection of concepts, keywords and key phrases, interconnections, and probabilities is user profile file . In a preferred embodiment, user profile file  is selectable for both editing and use from among profiles for many users.","The structure of belief system  is however also modifiable during use of the annotation system. The modifications may occur automatically in the background or may involve explicit user feedback input. The locations of concepts of interest determined by pattern identification stage  are monitored by profile updating stage . Profile updating stage  notes the proximity of other keywords and key phrases within each analyzed document to the locations of concepts of interest. If particular keywords and key phrases are always near a concept of interest, the structure and contents of belief system  are updated in the background without user input by profile updating stage . This could mean changing probability values, introducing a new connection between a subconcept and concept, or introducing a new keyword or key phrase.","User  may select a word or phrase in document  as being relevant to a particular concept even though the word or phrase has not yet defmed to be a keyword or key phrase. Belief system  is then updated to include the new keyword or key phrase","User  may also give feedback for an existing key word or key phrase, indicating the perceived relevance of the keyword or key phrase to the concept of interest. If the selected keyword or key phrase is indicated to be of high relevance to the concept of interest, the probability values connecting the subconcept indicated by the selected keywords or key phrases to the concept of interest increases. If, on the other hand, user  indicates the selected keywords or key phrases to be of little interest, the probability values connecting these keywords or key phrases to the concept decrease.","User Profile and Feedback Interfaces",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","518","802","804"]},"A defined concepts list  lists all of the concepts which have already been added to the user profile. By selecting a concept add button , the user may add a new concept. By selecting a concept edit button , the user may modify the belief network as it pertains to the listed concept that is currently selected. By selecting a remove button , the user may delete a concept.","If a concept has been selected for editing, its name appears in a concept name box . The portion of the belief network pertaining to the selected concept is shown in a belief network display window . Belief network display window  shows the selected concept, the subconcepts which have been defined as relating to the selected concept and the percentage values associated with each relationship. The user may add a subconcept by selecting a subconcept add button . The user may edit a subconcept by selecting the subconcept in belief network display window  and then selecting a subconcept edit button . A subconcept remove button  permits the user to delete a subconcept from the belief network.","Selecting subconcept add button  causes a subconcept add window  to appear. Subconcept add window  includes a subconcept name box  for entering the name of a new subconcept. A slider control  permits the user to select the percentage value that defines the probability of the selected concept appearing given that the newly selected subconcept appears. A keyword list  lists the keywords and key phrases which indicate discussion of the subconcept. The user adds to the list by selecting a keyword add button  which causes display of a dialog box (not shown) for entering the new keyword or key phrase. The user deletes a keyword or key phrase by selecting it and then selecting a keyword delete button . Once the user has finished defining the new subconcept, he or she confirms the definition by selecting an OK button . Selection of a cancel button  dismisses subconcept add window  without affecting the belief network contents or structure. Selection of subconcept edit button  causes display of a window similar to subconcept add window  permitting redefinition of the selected subconcept.","By selecting whether a background learning checkbox  has been selected, the user may enable or disable the operation of profile updating stage . A web autofetch check box  permits the user to select whether or not to enable an automatic web search process. When this web search process is enabled, whenever a particular keyword or key phrase is found frequently near where a defined concept is determined to be discussed, a web search tool such as AltaVista\u2122 is employed to look on the World Wide Web for documents containing the keyword or key phrase. A threshold slider control  is provided to enable the user to set a threshold relevance level for this autofetching process.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A-9B","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"],"b":["502","902","902","504","902","700","902","904","904","700","700"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["1000","1002","1004","1002","1006","1008","1006"]},"Thumbnail Image Display","Referring again to , an elongated thumbnail image  of many pages, or all of document  is presented in second viewing area . Document  will typically be a multi-page document with a section being displayed in first viewing area . Elongated thumbnail image  provides a convenient view of the basic document structure. The annotations incorporated into the document are visible within elongated thumbnail image . Within elongated thumbnail image , an emphasized area A shows a reduced view of the document section currently displayed in first viewing area  with the reduction ratio preferably being user-configurable. Thus, if the first viewing area  changes in size because of a change of window size, emphasized area A will also change in size accordingly. The greater the viewing area allocated to elongated thumbnail image  and emphasized area A, the more detail is visible. With very small allocated viewing areas, only sections of the document may be distinguishable. As the allocated area increases, individual lines and eventually individual words become distinguishable. In  the user-configured ratio is approximately 5:1. Emphasized viewing area  may be understood to be a lens or a viewing window over the part of elongated thumbnail image A corresponded to the document section displayed in first viewing area . User  may scroll through document  by sliding emphasized area A up and down. As emphasized area A shifts, the section of document  displayed in first viewing area  will also shift.","In  elongated thumbnail image  displays each page of document  as being displayed at the same reduced scale. The present invention also contemplates other modes of scaling elongated thumbnail image . For example, one may display emphasized area A at a scale similar to that shown in  and use a variable scale for the rest of elongated thumbnail image . Text from far away emphasized area A would be displayed at a highly reduced scale and the degree of magnification would increase with nearness to emphasized area A.","Because, the annotations appear in enlongated thumbnail image , it is very easy to find relevant text anywhere in document . Furthermore, elongated thumbnail image  provides a highly useful way of keeping track of one's position within a lengthy document.","Software Implementation","In a preferred embodiment, software to implement the present invention is written in the Java language. Preferably, the software forms a part of a stand-alone browser program written in the Java language. Alternatively, the code may be in the form of a so-called \u201cplug-in\u201d operating with a Java-equipped web browser used to browse HTML documents including the special annotation tags explained above.","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. For example, any probabilistic inference method may be substituted for a Bayesian belief network. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims and their full scope of equivalents."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A-6C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A-9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 10"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
