---
title: Method for operating a navigation system for a vehicle and corresponding navigation system
abstract: A method for operating a navigation system and a navigation system for a vehicle, in which data regarding geographic positions of the vehicle are ascertained by a positioning system and transmitted to an electronic data processing device having access to a database and a digital road map, on the basis of this data the location of the vehicle on the digital road map is determined and destination guidance instructions are output visually and/or acoustically to the driver of the vehicle, wherein additional information can be stored in the navigation system and can be retrieved as necessary by the driver and/or other passengers in the vehicle and output via the navigation system, this additional information being loaded into the navigation system in the form of program “navlets” which are usable by the driver and/or other passengers in the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07039520&OS=07039520&RS=07039520
owner: Robert Bosch GmbH
number: 07039520
owner_city: Stuttgart
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20020328
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present invention relates to a method for operating a navigation system and a navigation system for a vehicle, in which data regarding the geographic position are ascertained by a positioning system and transmitted to an electronic data processing device with access to a database and a digital road map, and on the basis of those data the location of the vehicle on the digital road map is determined and destination guidance instructions are output visually and\/or acoustically to the driver of the vehicle.","Conventional navigation systems for vehicles, in particular motor vehicles, and methods for operating such navigation systems, already exist. They serve to determine the present geographic position of the vehicle, to calculate the most favorable route of travel as a function of a definable destination that is to be reached, and give the driver instructions as to the route of travel.","These conventional navigation systems require information that is necessary for determining the present location of the vehicle and calculating the route of travel. This information includes, for example, road layouts, turning conditions, etc. This data is made available in the form of a database. For this purpose the database encompasses, for example, a so-called digital map that contains way points and\/or decision points for the possible routes. The database may be maintained in vehicle-installed mass storage by conventional means such as, for example, a CD-ROM.","Also necessary is a positioning system that identifies the present geographic position of the vehicle. The satellite-based Global Positioning System (GPS) may, for example, serve this purpose.","An electronic data processing device processes the position data furnished by the positioning system along with the data stored in the digital road map and determines the present position of the vehicle. Destination guidance information corresponding to the selected destination may then be provided, visually and\/or acoustically, to the driver by the electronic data processing device, based on way points and\/or decision points on a selected optimum route of travel.","Conventional navigation systems for vehicles are substantially made up of individual components having different functions. At the beginning of a trip, the driver first enters his or her desired destination into the navigation system via an input unit. A route list is then generated by a route calculation module using a database. This list is used by the destination guidance system, in combination with the vehicle position, to generate driving instructions to the driver, which are output in the form of graphical instructions or in natural speech.","The interaction of the individual components is permanently defined in this context. For example, once the route list has been calculated, it is modified only if the driver so wishes or if the destination guidance system detects that the previously calculated route has been departed from.","The type of output is also permanently defined. A user cannot, for example, replace the symbolic images that are normally available with his or her own symbols, or add additional information to them.","It is moreover difficult to incorporate additional functionality into the system. There exist, for example, travel guides on data media, usually on CDs, which can be used instead of the data medium for the otherwise usual digital map, and which contain not only the minimum requisite data but also additional information, for example regarding places of interest. This information can then be retrieved via the navigation device. This information retrieval is accomplished, however, via the interface defined by the navigation device, so that the configuration options for the human-machine interface is limited. Since the otherwise usual digital map is moreover replaced by the travel guide, it must also contain all the data relevant for navigation. The production of such travel guides is thus difficult, and there are only a few suppliers. Local travel guides whose subject matter is, for example, only a single city are practically never created.","A further deficit exists in the area of georeferencing. For example, it would be desirable if a destination, e.g. a parking garage, is made available in electronic form in an \u201capproach description\u201d that could be played back on the navigation device. It would thereby be possible to reach destinations that are not contained, or not correctly contained, in the map. For example, one could reach destinations located on streets for which no house number information is available, or entrances to buildings that are not recorded (parking garage entrances, hotel lobbies, etc.). Extensions for georeferencing based on the transmission of data do exist at present, but because of the varying map formats of different suppliers, they are difficult to implement.","The present invention provides a method and a device for operating a navigation system for a vehicle where additional information can easily be stored in the navigation system and can be retrieved as necessary by the driver and\/or by other persons present in the vehicle and can be output via the navigation system.","According to one embodiment of the present invention, additional information relevant for navigation is loaded into the navigation device in the form of user programs, and is stored as so-called \u201cnavlets,\u201d making it possible to easily store additional information in the navigation system that can be retrieved as necessary by the driver and\/or by other persons present in the vehicle, and can be output via the navigation system.","Since the navlets have access to the output units, the ability to modify the human-machine interface in the navigation system is possible according to one embodiment of the present invention. For example, it is possible to make available a navlet which permits input of the destination in a novel form. After the user has confirmed the destination, it is transmitted to the navigation system and the navlet terminates.","In another embodiment of the present invention, the navlets do not need to be associated with navigable map data and may contain additional information. For example, a hotel chain could make available a navlet that allows access to all the chain's hotels in Germany. Not only could this directory contain comprehensive information about location, category, and number of rooms, but views and short video clips could also make it easier to select a hotel. Once the driver decides on a hotel, however, only the address of that hotel is forwarded to the navigation system, and the navlet terminates.","Since the navlets are programs, it possible to exercise control over the navigation procedures using navlets in another embodiment of the present invention. For example, a navlet may contain a tourist guide for a city. When the navlet is started, it transfers the first place being visited to the navigation system, which then guides the user. The navlet is meanwhile capable of outputting information about the first destination via the screen or the audio channel. Once the first destination has been reached, the navlet can transfer the next destination to the navigation system. These operations can be continued indefinitely until the final trip destination has been reached.","In another embodiment of the present invention the navlets do not need to know the internal map format of the corresponding navigation device. It is entirely sufficient if data\u2014in particular addresses (e.g., in city\/street\/number format) or coordinates (for example, in WGS  format)\u2014are interchanged via a defined interface with the navigation device. Since the navlets are programs, it may be possible for the navlets to determine the type of navigation device and thereby effectively utilize device-specific and\/or data-specific advantages of the particular navigation device.","The georeferencing of objects is simplified by the use of navlets according to another embodiment of the present invention. For example, a variety of conventional concepts allowing georeferencing to be described by means of data may be used. When a destination georeference of this kind is loaded into the navigation system according to the present invention, the navigation system is thus capable of calculating the appropriate route even if the destination is not itself contained in the map base. The present invention moreover makes even further capabilities available. For example, it is possible for navlets to guide actively to the destination. On the one hand, the capabilities of the navigation system can be used; on the other hand, navlets can contain their own driving instructions in the form of spoken texts, images, and videos. According to this embodiment, therefore, it is possible to provide individual destination guidance that is tailored to the needs of the particular customer.","In a further embodiment, the navlets may contain a mechanism for location-specific notification. Certain functions of the navlet can be called up by the navigation system when the vehicle is in the vicinity of a defined point or within a region (state, district, city, neighborhood, etc.), or when an address (instantaneous position, instantaneous destination) matches a given address. When a hotel is input via the navigation system, for example, it is possible for a corresponding navlet to start automatically and provide assistance. In another embodiment, a small icon (with distance indication) can appear automatically on the screen when the vehicle approaches a restaurant or fast-food outlet. In a further embodiment, a third-party supplier can offer a navlet that contains current detour recommendations for the entire country. As soon as the vehicle approaches a relevant city, the navlet is automatically started and outputs the respective recommendations.","According to one embodiment of the present invention, all the information relevant for navigation is loaded into the navigation device in the form of user programs. The user programs, as so-called navlets, have a function similar to the platform-independent applets used in conjunction with Internet browsers. An essential difference thus exists as compared to conventional navigation systems, in which information is loaded into the navigation device only in the form of data.","In another embodiment of the present invention, provision is made for the functions of the navigation section of a navigation system to be used by the navlets via interfaces of the navigation system.","A further embodiment of the present invention provides that the functions of the navigation section used by the navlets are, in particular, those such as:\n\n","Provision is further made, in another embodiment of the present invention, for specific functions to be executed by each navlet, of which one portion of the functions is directed toward the user's particular requirements and the other portion of the functions is defined as standard.","According to one embodiment of the present invention, the navigation system has a positioning system, an electronic data processing device that has access to a database having a digital road map, an input unit, and output units for visual and\/or audio destination guidance instructions. The navigation system is made up of two main units, of which the first main unit is a navigation section having the components of a navigation device, the navigation device being functionally self-sufficient, and the second main unit is a device section for the execution of user programs, which is connected via interfaces to the navigation section, making it possible to provide a navigation system in which additional information can be stored in the navigation system and can be retrieved as necessary by the driver and\/or by other persons present in the vehicle, and can be output via the navigation system.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},"The navigation system consists of the following primary components: a database , route list , route calculation module , positioning system , and destination guidance unit .","The navigation system further encompasses an input unit  into which the driver enters his or her destination before beginning the trip; and, as output units, a visual output unit , for example a display, and an audio output unit , for example a loudspeaker.","A navigation system according to the one embodiment of the present invention is depicted schematically in . The navigation system is associated with a respective vehicle. It is made up of two main units ,  that are connected via two interfaces , . The first main unit is a navigation section  having the components of a conventional navigation device, the navigation device being functionally self-sufficient. The second main unit is a device section  for the execution of user programs.","Navigation section  of the navigation system according to this embodiment of the present invention corresponds, in its general basic construction, to the conventional navigation system design depicted in . Navigation section  accordingly encompasses the following primary components: a database , a route list , a route calculation module , a positioning system , and a destination guidance unit . Also part of navigation section  are an input unit  for operation of the navigation system, a visual output unit  for the output of visual instructions and information, and an audio output unit  for the output of audio instructions and information.","According to this embodiment of the present invention, the device section  of the navigation system encompasses the following primary components: a user memory  and a virtual machine . Navlets  can be stored in user memory  in various quantities. Device section  of the navigation system is connected respectively via two interfaces ,  to navigation section .","In contrast to operating system updates or firmware updates, navlets  are independent from the actual operating system of the navigation system. Instead, these are applications that are executed within an operating system or a virtual machine , and that have access to high-level functions of the navigation system. The use of navlets allows a large pool of potential providers the ability to provide data to a user through the navigation system by programming navlets  and making them available. The invention makes it possible to achieve, with navlets , additional benefits from navigation systems in vehicles similar to the benefit of applets within the Internet.","In further embodiments of the present invention, alternative and\/or additional interfaces (not depicted) for data transfer, for example infrared and radio, can be activated and used by navlets .","In the navigation system, respectively, user memory  is connected via a first interface  to the navigation device , and via a second interface  to input unit  and to visual and audio output units , .","In one embodiment of the present invention, the navlets  are written in a platform-independent programming language, such as the \u201cJava\u201d programming language. As a result, navlets  can be used flexibly in navigation systems.","Each navlet  may be configured in such a way that it has internal data and functions. In addition to the internal data and functions, each navlet  may contain standard functions. The standard functions, according to one embodiment, may include functions such as:","an initialization function;","a delete function;","a start function;","a periodic call function;","a text notification function;","a geometric notification function; and","a further notification function.","In a further embodiment of the present invention, navlets  may be loadable into user memory  in different ways. A number of variant embodiments can be provided for this purpose.","One possible variant is that navlets  are loadable into user memory  by way of a memory medium, preferably RAM, flash ROM, mini hard drive, CD-ROM, or DVD.","Another variant may use navlets  loadable into user memory  by wire-conducted or wireless transfer, for example infrared or radio, from a PC, laptop, or PDA.","In a further variant, navlets  are loadable into user memory  by transfer from a server via broadcast, for example DAB, or individual communication, for example GSM.","The navigation system depicted schematically in  is operated in accordance with one embodiment of the method according to the present invention explained below.","The method according to one embodiment of the present invention provides for additional information relevant for navigation to be loaded into the navigation system in the form of user programs that, as navlets , are usable by the driver and\/or by other persons present in the vehicle.","The navigation section  functions may be used by naviets  via interfaces ,  of the navigation system. The navigation section  functions used by navlets  may, in particular, include:\n\n","In one embodiment, each navlet  may execute predefined functions. One portion of the functions of navlet  may be directed toward the user's particular requirements, i.e. toward the requirements of the driver of the vehicle and optionally other vehicle occupants. Another portion of the functions of navlet  may include standard functions.","Each navlet  may include an initialization function that is called up when navlet  is installed for the first time on the navigation system. This function may be used to explain the manner of operation of navlet  to the user, or to inquire as to the user's preferences.","Each navlet  may further include a delete function which is called up when navlet  is removed.","A start function, which is called up once when the vehicle is started or when the navigation system is initiated, may be yet another function for each navlet  in another embodiment of the present invention.","Each navlet  furthermore may include a function for periodic calls, which are called up at regular time intervals and are used by navlet  to update internal data.","In a further embodiment, each navlet  may have a text notification function which is called up when a match or partial match exists between a given text and the instantaneous destination address, intermediate destination address, address of the instantaneous position, or an entry in route list ; different notification functions can be defined for various criteria.","Each navlet  may include a geometric notification function which is called up when a predefined geometric criterion is met. Geometric criteria can be, for example, the distance to a given point or the location within a specific region (state, district, city, neighborhood).","Each navlet , in a further embodiment, may include further notification functions, such as arrival of a Traffic Message Channel (TMC) message or a message of another service, for example GSM.","The sale and transfer of navlets  may be effected via conventional media, for example CD-ROM and DVD, or via the Internet. It is also possible for companies to make navlets  available at no cost on their Internet home page, in order to facilitate access by their customers and\/or to combine vehicle navigation with advertising."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
