---
title: AC/DC multi-axis accelerometer for determining patient activity and body position
abstract: An implantable cardiac stimulation device which determines stimulation based upon the patient's body position and activity level while eliminating special implantation or calibration procedures. To eliminate such special implantation and calibration procedures, the stimulation device correlates the patient's body position using a multi-axis DC accelerometer or other sensor during times of high activity and determines a patient's standing position value. During other times, the stimulation device compares the signals from the accelerometer to the standing position value to determine the patient's current body position. Based upon the current body position and the activity level, the stimulation device determines the necessary stimulation to deliver to the patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06937900&OS=06937900&RS=06937900
owner: Pacesetter, Inc.
number: 06937900
owner_city: Sylmar
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020724
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/457,451, filed Dec. 8, 1999, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,466,821.","This invention relates to cardiac stimulators which use indicators of patient activity and body position to determine the type and intensity of cardiac stimulation.","The class of medical devices known as cardiac stimulation devices can deliver and\/or receive electrical energy from the cardiac tissue in order to prevent or end life debilitating and life threatening cardiac arrhythmias. Pacing delivers relatively low electrical stimulation pulses to cardiac tissue to relieve symptoms associated with a slow heart rate, an inconsistent heart rate, an ineffective heart beat, etc. Defibrillation delivers higher electrical stimulation pulses to cardiac tissue to prevent or end potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias such as ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, etc.","Early advances in pacing technology have led to a better quality of life and a longer life span. The development of demand pacing, in which the stimulator detects the patient's natural cardiac rhythm to prevent stimulation during times which the patient's heart naturally contracts, led to a more natural heart rate as well as a longer battery life.","Another major advance was rate responsive pacing in which the stimulator determines the stimulation rate based upon the patient's metabolic demand to mimic a more natural heart rate. The metabolic demand typically is indicated by the patient's activity level via a dedicated activity sensor, minute ventilation sensor, etc. The stimulator analyzes the sensor output to determine the corresponding stimulation rate.","A variety of signal processing techniques have been used to process the raw activity sensor output. In one approach, the raw signals are rectified and filtered. Also, the frequency of the highest signal peaks can be monitored. Typically, the end result is a digital signal indicative of the level of sensed activity at a given time. The activity level is then applied to a transfer function that defines the pacing rate (also known as the sensor indicated rate) for each possible activity level. Attention is drawn to U.S. Pat. No. 5,074,302 to Poore, et al., entitled \u201cSelf-Adjusting Rate-Responsive Pacemaker and Method Thereof\u201d, issued Dec. 24, 1991. This patent has a controller that relates the patient activity level signal to a corresponding stimulation rate. In addition, the controller uses the activity signal over a long time period to determine the adjustment of the corresponding stimulation rates. The activity signal can also indicate when a patient is sleeping to modify the pacing rate as set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5,476,483 to Bornzin, et al, entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Modulating the Base Rate during Sleep for a Rate-Responsive Cardiac Pacemaker\u201d, issued Dec. 19, 1995, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Another method of determining the stimulation rate based upon metabolic need is based upon the body position of a patient. Studies have shown that that a patient being upright indicates a higher stimulation rate than for a patient lying down. An example is U.S. Pat. No. 5,354,317 to Alt, entitled \u201cApparatus and Method of Cardiac Pacing Responsive to Patient Position\u201d, issued Oct. 11, 1994. In this patent, the controller monitors a motion sensor to produce a static output which represents the position of the patient, i.e., lying down or upright. This static output is used to determine whether a sleep indicated rate or an awake base rate should be used. However, this system is completely dependent upon the proper orientation of the stimulator housing during implantation for consistent and reliable results.","To further improve the stimulator's ability to mimic the heart's natural rhythm, a combination of monitoring both the patient's activity level and the body position has been envisioned. U.S. Pat. No. 5,593,431 to Sheldon, entitled \u201cMedical Service Employing Multiple DC Accelerometers for Patient Activity and Posture Sensing and Method\u201d, issued Jan. 14, 1997, sets forth a system which monitors both parameters. This patent sets forth a cardiac stimulator which uses a multi-axis DC accelerometer system to monitor both patient position and patient activity. Unfortunately, this accelerometer also depends upon a known orientation during implant and repeated postoperative calibrations for proper operation due to shifting of the stimulator within the implant pocket.","The ability to accurately determine both the patient's activity level and the patient's body posture would greatly benefit many patients by providing a more metabolically correct stimulation rate. As well, this combination of sensors could be used to determine the accuracy of other sensors such as PDI, Osaturation, etc. This enables the controller of the stimulator to blend the outputs of the various sensors to provide the benefit of the each individual sensor. Also, in the case of implantable cardioverter\/defibrillators (ICDs), these two outputs would allow modification of the defibrillator thresholds based upon time of day and posture of the patient.","Accordingly, it would be desirable to develop an implantable cardiac stimulator which adjusts the stimulation level based upon the patient activity and the patient body position via sensors that are not device implant orientation sensitive.","The present invention is directed towards an implantable cardiac stimulation device which determines cardiac stimulation levels based upon the patient's current body position and activity level while eliminating special implantation or calibration procedures. To determine the body position and the activity level, the stimulator monitors the output of a multi-axis DC accelerometer or a combination of sensors to include oxygen saturation, PDI, minute ventilation sensors, etc.","To determine the patient's current body position, the controller establishes the output of at least two DC accelerometers during times of high activity as the patient's standing position. Lower activity levels associated with the other body orientations while lying down are also deduced in a similar manner. Then, the stimulator correlates the current outputs of the DC accelerometers with the standing position to determine the current body position and uses the previous and current body positions and the activity level (preferably calculated from the AC acceleration in the anterior-posterior axis, the axis which has the best correlation with the patient activity), to determine the instantaneous stimulation needed.","Because this stimulator depends upon the combination of activity signals and position signals from the multi-axis accelerometer, this device is not dependent upon a predetermined implant orientation or repeated calibration of the accelerometer after implant. If the device should shift within the patient after implant, the controller will accommodate this change during the patient's next high activity period.","As such, this device monitors the activity and position signals from the multi-axis accelerometer to determine the indicated activity level of the patient and the current body position and then determines the type and intensity of cardiac stimulation the patient needs.","In a further aspect of a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the calculated standing position is monitored to detect changes that may indicate the presence of twiddler's syndrome.","Referring now to , an implantable cardiac stimulation device in accordance with the present invention is shown as a dual sensor rate responsive pacemaker . It is well within the scope of this invention to operate this stimulation device in a demand mode as is well known within the art. Also, the principles of this invention would be easily applied to defibrillation theory by one of ordinary skill in the art. While the preferred embodiment is directed towards a stimulation device which uses a multi-axis (two or more axis) accelerometer for determining the pacing rate and stimulation intensity, it is well within the scope of this invention to apply the principles of this invention for use with other physiologic sensors that also indicate patient position and activity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","5","12","14","12","18","5","20","5","12","14","10","16","10","16","10","17","18","20"]},"The leads ,  carry the stimulating pulses to the electrodes ,  from the atrial pulse generator (A-PG)  and a ventricular pulse generator (V-PG) , respectively. Further, the electrical signals from the atrium are carried from the electrode  through the lead  to the input terminal of the atrial channel sense amplifier (P-AMP) . The electrical signals from the ventricle are carried from the electrode  through the lead  to the input terminal of the ventricular channel sense amplifier (R-AMP) . Similarly, electrical signals from both the atrium and the ventricle are applied to the inputs of the IEGM (intracardiac electrogram) amplifier . The stimulation device  detects an evoked response from the heart to an applied stimulus, allowing the detection of the capture with a suitable broad bandpass filter. The IEGM amplifier  is also used during the transmission to an external programmer .","The stimulation device  uses a controller (microprocessor control and timing circuits)  that typically includes a microprocessor to carry out the control and timing functions. The controller  receives output signals from the atrial amplifier , the ventricular amplifier , and the IEGM amplifier  over the signal lines , , , respectively. The controller  then generates trigger signals that are sent to the atrial pulse generator  and the ventricular pulse generator  over the signal lines , , respectively.","The stimulation device  also includes a memory  that is coupled to the controller  over a suitable data\/address bus . This memory  stores customized control parameters for the stimulation device's operation for each individual patient. Further, the data sensed by the IEGM amplifier  may be stored in the memory  for later retrieval and analysis.","A clock circuit  directs appropriate clock signal(s) to the controller  as well as any other circuits throughout the stimulation device , e.g., to the memory  by a clock bus .","The stimulation device  also has a telemetry communications circuit  which is connected to the controller  by way of a suitable command\/data bus . In turn, the telemetry communications circuit  is selectively coupled to the external programmer  by an appropriate communications link , such as an electromagnetic link. Through the external programmer  and the communications link , desired commands may be sent to the controller . Other data measured within or by the stimulation device  such as IEGM data, etc., may be sorted and uploaded to the external programmer .","The stimulation device  derives its electrical power from a battery  (or other appropriate power source) which provides all operating power to all the circuits of the stimulation device  via a POWER signal line .","The stimulation device  also includes a sensor  that is connected to the controller  over a suitable connection line . In the preferred embodiment, this sensor detects patient activity and indicates the patient's position via a multi-axis (i.e., two or more axis) DC accelerometer. However, any appropriate sensor or combination of sensors which indicate levels of patient activity and indicate the patient's position could be used. Other such sensors, such as a minute ventilation sensor, blood pressure sensor, PDI sensor, etc., can be used to in lieu of or supplemental to the activity signal from the accelerometer. In the case of some of these alternative sensors, the sensor could be placed on the lead  as shown by an alternative sensor .","The above described stimulation device  generally operates in a conventional manner to provide pacing pulses at a rate that comfortably meets the patient's metabolic demands. In a typical case, the controller  uses the signals generated by the sensor  (or other alternative sensors ) to determine both the activity level and the body position of the patient, both indicators of metabolic need. Many methods of determining the activity level of the patient are well known within the art. Attention is drawn to the '483 patent, which is hereby incorporated by reference. To regulate the pacing rate, the controller  provides a trigger signal to the atrial pulse generator  and\/or the ventricular pulse generator . The timing of this signal (to a large extent) is determined by the activity level of the patient, body position, and the individualized control parameters.","In embodiments of the present invention, each multi-axis DC accelerometer consists of at least two DC accelerometers (hereafter known as DC sensors), preferably mounted essentially orthogonal to each other.  sets forth an exemplary embodiment with three DC sensors attached to the inside of a stimulator housing . In the example of , these three DC sensors are labeled superior-inferior , anterior-posterior , and lateral-medial , respectively. Each DC sensor can also generate the activity level of the patient, i.e., AC acceleration.","Each of the DC sensors , ,  is preferably a surface micromachined integrated circuit with signal conditioning as is well known in the art. Employing surface micromachining, a set of movable capacitor plates are formed extending in a pattern from a shaped polysilicon proof mass suspended by tethers with respect to a further set of fixed polysilicon capacitor plates. The proof mass has a sensitive axis along which a force between 0 G and +50 G effects the physical movement of the proof mass and a change in the measured capacitance between the fixed and moveable plates. The measured capacitance is transformed by the on-chip signal conditioning circuits into a low voltage signal. Further information regarding the physical construction of the DC sensors can be found in the '431 patent, hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. However, many other types of accelerometers are commercially available, and it would be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art to use other types of accelerometers in place of the above described multi-axis DC accelerometer. While, three or more DC sensors are preferred, systems of the present invention can be formed from two DC sensors, as described further below.","To determine both the activity level and the body position of the patient, the controller  monitors the output of each of the DC sensors. Preferably using standard analog to digital conversion techniques, the output of each of the DC sensors is filtered to separate an AC signal component (representing the activity level) and a DC signal component (representing the body position). Then, the two resultant signals are further processed to determine two corresponding digital outputs which represent the instantaneous signal level of each signal. The resulting activity digital signals are then further processed to determine the activity level of the patient by methods well known within the art. One example is contained in the '302 patent, hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The resulting two position signals are processed to determine the indicated body position as discussed below.","Knowing the activity level, the activity variance measurements can be determined. Activity variance is the long term variance in the patient's activity as derived by the controller  and gives a further indication of the patient's activity. For example, a high variance measurement indicates the patient has been quite active and a low variance measurement indicates that a patient has been resting or sleeping. Preferably, these activity and activity variance signals are calculated from the accelerometer output in the anterior-posterior axis which has the best correlation with the patient physical activity. For further information regarding the determination of the activity variance, attention is drawn to the '483 patent, hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","Once the activity level of the patient is determined, the controller  then determines the instantaneous position of the stimulator housing  within the patient. By using the digital outputs of the lateral-medial  and superior-inferior  DC sensors shown in , a two dimensional plot can be created to show the clusters in the different graph positions which represent different body postures of the patient. When the stimulator housing  shifts within the patient's body, the clusters on the two dimensional plot will rotate correspondingly, but the relative positions of the clusters will not change. The graph of  is defined as follows: x is the current indicated position in the lateral-medial axis, y is the current indicated position in the superior-inferior axis, and (x, y) represents the average of the digital outputs that have correlated to the patient being oriented in a standing position.","To determine the orientation of the accelerometer indicating that the patient is standing, attention is drawn to  which shows an exemplary flowchart. First, at step , the activity level (LastAV) and the activity variance (ActVar) measurements are monitored as well as the current digital outputs from the DC sensors, e.g., , . The digital outputs are used to determine an initial (x, y) value. Then, at step , both the activity level (LastAV) and the activity variance (ActVar) measurements are compared to corresponding standing thresholds, respectively Activity Standing Threshold and AV Standing Threshold.","If both variables are above their corresponding standing thresholds, the controller  continues to step , where the controller  increments a counter and adds the current digital outputs indicative of (x, y) to an accumulated (x, y) value. Then, at step , the controller  determines if the counter has reached its threshold value (e.g.,  counts).","If the controller  has not reached its threshold value, the controller  returns to step . If the controller  has reached its threshold value, the controller  continues to step  where the controller  determines (x, y) by averaging the accumulated (x, y) value over the counter period. Afterwards, in step , the controller  resets the counter to zero to prepare for another update. The controller then returns to step .","As shown in step , if one of these variables is not above the corresponding standing threshold, then the counter and the accumulated (x, y) values are reset to 0, and the controller  returns to step .","Once the controller  has determined what position (x, y) corresponds to the patient standing, the controller  then determines the current body position.  sets forth an exemplary flow chart to determine the current body position of the patient. To begin the process, the controller  sets the current position code (Current Position) equal to 1. The current position code is a binary code of 1 or 0 which indicates whether the patient is standing (1) or lying down (0). Additionally, the controller  sets the time the patient has been at rest, T, equal to 0, and stores Tinto memory  at step . At step , the controller  reads the current position code and the activity level (LastAV) out of the memory . The activity level (LastAV) is determined from the digital output of the AC portion of the DC sensor output as discussed above. The controller  then determines the projection value (P).","The projection value (P) is a numerical indication of the correlation between the current body position (x, y) to the determined standing position (x, y) as calculated below: \n\n\nIf the projection value (P) indicates a correlation value of greater than a standing threshold, e.g., at least 0.65, the current body position (x, y) is considered to be standing. For example, using the values referenced in the discussion of , a projection value (P) of 0.968 is calculated. Accordingly, the current (x, y) value shown in the example of  would be considered to correspond to the patient being in a standing position.\n","Once the controller  has determined these three values (i.e., T, activity level (LastAV), and the projection value (P)), it proceeds to step . At step , the controller  determines if the current position code indicates that the patient was standing. If the current position code 1, the controller  proceeds to step .","Then, at step , the controller  determines if the current projection value (P) is less than a standing threshold (StandingThreshold), e.g., 0.65, and if the activity level (LastAV) is below an activity threshold (ActAvg). If either of these conditions is not true at step , the controller  proceeds to step  where the controller  stores the current position code as the last position code (Last Position) and sets the current position code equal to 1, indicating that the patient is still standing. The controller  then returns to step .","If both of these conditions are true at step , the controller  proceeds to step  where the controller  compares the current value of Twith a resting threshold (RestEnough). If Tis not equal to a resting threshold (RestEnough), then Tis incremented at step . At step , the controller  stores the current position code as the last position code and sets the current position code equal to 1, indicating that the patient is standing since the patient has not been at rest for a sufficient period of time. The controller  then returns to step .","If Tis equal to the resting threshold at step , then, at step , the last position code is set equal to the current position code and the current position code is set to 0, indicating that the patient is no longer standing. Then, the controller  returns to step .","Returning to step , if the current position code was not equal to 1, the controller  proceeds to step , where the controller  determines if the projection value (P) is greater than the standing threshold (e.g., 0.65) and if the activity level (LastAV) is greater than the activity threshold (ActAvg), e.g., indicating that the patient is exercising. If these conditions are both true at step , the controller  proceeds to step  where Tis set to 0. The controller  then proceeds to step  where the last position code is set equal to the current position code and the current position code is set to 1 to indicate that the patient is now standing. The controller  then returns to step .","If either condition is not met at step , then the controller  proceeds to step  where the last position code is set equal to the current position code and the current position code is set to 0 to indicate that the patient is still at rest. The controller  then returns to step .","While a two dimensional calculation has been described, one of ordinary skill would appreciate that this calculation could be expanded to a three dimensional case with the use of three DC sensors, e.g., , ,  of , respectively indicating the (x, y, z) positions of the patient's body. In such a case the projection value (P) would be calculated as: \n\n","One application of this method of determining body position is in orthostatic compensation pacing. Patients who suffer from long term diabetes tend to develop neuropathy from the long term exposure of their nerves to excessive blood sugar levels. This condition erodes the body's ability to adequately control the heart rate. In particular, this condition renders the patient unable to compensate for the dramatic drop in blood pressure upon standing after sitting or lying down for an extended period of time due to an inability of the body to increase the heart rate and constrict the system resistance and capacitance of its blood vessels.","To overcome this condition, the controller  compensates for the change in the patient position by triggering an orthostatic compensation rate when the body position, the activity level signal, and the activity variance indicate a sudden change in the patient's activity after a prolonged period of inactivity. This pacing regime is blended into a traditional transfer function indicated by the activity level and activity variance measurements as discussed below.","In , the activity indicated rate (AIR) is illustrated. The transfer function is used by the controller  to correlate the activity level measurements shown along the horizontal axis to the activity indicated pacing rates shown along the vertical axis. The controller  then triggers the appropriate pulse generator ,  at the activity indicated rate. It should be noted that an appropriate transfer function can be used based upon individual need. In addition, different modes of pacing (e.g., DDD, VVI, etc.) can be accommodated by this method.","Two activity levels are noted on the horizontal axis of the transfer function: a low activity threshold  and a high activity threshold . For activity level measurements above the high activity threshold , the pacing rate is maintained at a maximum pacing rate  as determined by the physician. For activity level measurements between the low activity threshold  and the high activity threshold , the activity indicated pacing rate varies according to a programmed transfer function . In this case, the activity indicated pacing rate varies linearly between a base rate  and a maximum pacing rate . However, this transition can be programmed to meet the patient's need by the physician in many different ways as is well known in the art or periodically adjusted by the controller  as set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5,514,162 to Bornzin, et al., entitled \u201cSystem and Method for Automatically Determining the Slope of a Transfer Function for a Rate-Responsive Cardiac Pacemaker\u201d, issued May 7, 1996, hereby incorporated by reference.","The circadian base rate (CBR), illustrated in , is established by monitoring the activity variance measurements (also known as the long term variance in activity) as described more fully in the '483 patent, hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The transfer function is used by the control system to correlate the activity variance level shown along the horizontal axis to the CBR shown along the vertical axis. The controller  then triggers the appropriate pulse generator ,  at the activity indicated rate. Preferably, an appropriate transfer function can be used based upon individual need. In addition, different modes of pacing, i.e., DDD, VVI, etc.) can be accommodated by this method.","Two activity variance levels are noted on the horizontal axis of the transfer function: a low activity variance threshold  and a high activity variance threshold . For activity variance level measurements above the high activity variance threshold , the CBR is maintained at a maximum pacing rate  as determined by the physician. For activity level measurements between the low activity variance threshold  and the high activity variance threshold , the CBR varies according to a programmed transfer function . In this case, the CBR varies linearly between a minimum CBR  and a maximum CBR . For activity variance level measurements below the low activity variance threshold , the controller  sets the CBR as defined by the minimum CBR .","A patient's activity level is monitored and activity variance measurements are calculated to determine when and how long a patient typically rests or sleeps. These two terms define a stimulation rate which is below the programmed base rate such that the controller  triggers pacing pulses at a lower pacing rate during sleep. This lower pacing rate more closely mimics the natural cardiac rhythm exhibited during rest or sleep.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":"702"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["32","800","802"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9"],"b":["32","900","32","32","905","32","905","32","910","32","916","48","32","915","32"],"sub":["OSC ","OSC ","OSC ","OSC","OSC","OSC "]},"If at step , the Tcounter has reached the end of the orthostatic compensation table , the controller  resets the Tcounter to 0 at step  because the orthostatic compensation regime has been completed. The controller  then returns to step  to continue the orthostatic compensation regime. If at step , the Tcounter has not reached the end of the orthostatic compensation table, then the controller  proceeds directly to step .","Returning to step , if the Tcounter is equal to 0, the controller  proceeds to step . This condition represents that the patient is not currently receiving the orthostatic compensation regime. The controller  then reads the last position and the current position codes from the memory . The controller  then, at step , determines if the last position code is equal to 0 and if the current position code is equal to 1. If these conditions are not met at step , then, at step , the controller  sets the stimulation rate (SIR) to the maximum of the activity indicated rate (AIR) and the circadian base rate (CBR) as discussed above. If these conditions are met at step , then the patient has just stood up after a period of lying down. In this case, the controller  triggers the orthostatic compensation regime. To this end, the controller  proceeds to step  where the controller  sets the Tcounter to 1 and sets the stimulation rate (SIR) to be equal to the maximum of the activity indicated rate (AIR), the circadian base rate (CBR), and the orthostatic compensation rate (OSCR(T)) as set forth above. The controller  then returns to step  where the orthostatic compensation routine will continue through step  as previously described.","Once the controller  determines the instantaneous stimulation rate (SIR), the controller  returns to the posture detection mode (see ) to determine the new current patient position. Once the controller  updates the last position code with the current position code and determines the current patient position, the controller  then returns to update the instantaneous stimulation rate (SIR). Also, any time the controller  detects that the activity level exceeds the standing threshold, the controller  returns to update the standing center (x, y) Other applications of this invention include adjustment of stimulation parameters such as the AV delay, the PVARP, the stimulation level, and timing. For example, the AV delay could be shortened when the patient is known to be standing. Also, the base rate can be adjusted for a patient being in a standing position versus lying down.","Also, knowing the position and the activity level of the patient can allow the triggering of monitoring functions under known conditions. For instance, when a patient is reliably known to be sleeping (i.e., inactive and lying down), monitoring functions such as heart sounds, respirations, intrinsic heart sounds, etc., can be measured for long-term monitoring of cardiovascular function.","As an additional feature, embodiments of the present invention may include the capability to detect twiddler's syndrome. Twiddler's syndrome refers to the condition where an implanted cardiac stimulation device sits loosely in the pocket in the patient's chest. Consequently, the cardiac stimulation device may rotate in the pocket due to purposeful or inadvertent activity by the patient, eventually causing lead dislodgment or fracture. By comparing the currently calculated standing position (x, y) to an initial calculation of the standing position (i.e., its implantation position (x, y)), embodiments of the present invention can recognize movements of the cardiac stimulation device that may correspond to twiddler's syndrome.  shows a flow chart of an exemplary supplement to the flow chart of  that may be used for detecting twiddler's syndrome. This supplement is placed following block  of  where the current standing position value (x, y) is calculated. In step , it is determined whether this is the first calculation of (x, y). If this is the first calculation, an initial, e.g., an implantation, standing position value (x, y) is stored in memory  and the process continues in step . Following subsequent calculations of the standing position, the process continues in step  where the currently calculated standing position (x, y) is compared to the initial calculated standing position (x, y). This calculation may be done by a linear comparison by separately determining the amount of change in the x and y components of the standing position value. Then, in step  these x and y values are compared to a twiddler's threshold value to determine if the change in the standing position may indicate twiddler's syndrome.","Preferably, a calculation may be performed as shown below: \n\n\nto determine the correlation between the initial standing position value and the current standing position value. (Of course, while a two axes calculation is shown, the calculation can be expanded as previously described for a three axes embodiment.) A value of less than a predetermined Twiddler's Threshold value, e.g., 0.85, may indicate twiddler's syndrome. Accordingly, the process continues in step  where a Twiddler's Flag is set. The process then continues at step .\n","The status of the Twiddler's Flag may be sent to the external programmer  during a follow up visit of the patient to the physician. Preferably, the setting of the Twiddler's Flag can alert a physician of the potential prescience of twiddler's syndrome before damage to the lead has occurred.","The flow chart of  is only an exemplary method of monitoring for twiddler's syndrome. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that other methods could be used to monitor for trends in the calculated standing position. For example, one could monitor for changes in the calculated standing position between calculations or groups of calculations without actually storing the first post implantation value. All such methods are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.","Although the invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments, it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the application of the principles of the invention. For instance, this method can also be used to alter the defibrillation parameters in an implantable cardioverter\/defibrillator unit. Accordingly, the embodiments described in particular should be considered exemplary, not limiting, with respect to the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above and other aspects, features, and advantages of the present invention will be more apparent from the following more particular description thereof, presented in conjunction with the following drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4","sub":["c","c"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A\u20135B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 4"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
