---
title: Method and system for protecting video data
abstract: A key protected data stream and an encryption key are received at a gateway device. The gateway devices unprotects the data stream based upon the encryption key. The unprotected received data is modified by the gateway to generate a modified data. The modified data is protected based upon the encryption key to generate a key protected modified data. The gateway then transmits the key protected modified data to one or more clients along with the encryption key.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07120253&OS=07120253&RS=07120253
owner: VIXS Systems, Inc.
number: 07120253
owner_city: Toronto, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20020502
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES"],"p":["Generally the present disclosure relates to protecting video data, and more particularly the present disclosure relates to protecting video data using encryption keys.","Data protection methods such as encryption and scrambling methods are commonly implemented in devices and systems to protect data from illicit access and\/or tampering. For example, many providers of motion pictures experts group (MPEG) encoded multimedia content, also referred to as video content or data herein, use encryption and scrambling to prevent unauthorized accessing of the MPEG content before it is decoded. One type of data protection known in the communication industry includes the use of encryption keys to protect data, such as video data, from unauthorized access. For example, in the video industry, systems that need to transmit video content over publicly accessible medium are generally required by the video content owners to protect the video content through the use of one or more protection methods. One such method uses scrambling to protect video content by using control words that in turn are used to generate encryption keys that are used by a client device to regenerate the control words, thereby allowing subsequent descrambling of the video content. Such a protection requires considerable computing bandwidth and\/or the management system required to generate the encryption keys, and\/or the control words used to generate the encryption keys, as well as to perform the scrambling of the video.","Therefore, a method and or system that reduces the computing bandwidth to perform some or all of these functions would be beneficial.","In accordance with the present disclosure, a system is described that receives an encryption key to unprotect key protected video data. The video data is then modified in some manner and re-scrambled based on the received encryption key data. The modified video data is then retransmitted to a client along with the original encryption key. The client receiving the original encryption keys can de-scramble the newly generated video by using the retransmitted key, which is the same as the original key. Processing time and bandwidth associated with determining the keys is eliminated by re-transmitting the original encryption keys to the clients for reuse. This is an advantage over known methods in that the saved bandwidth is available for other tasks, or alternatively, a processing device requiring less bandwidth can be used and allows the original service provider to extend entitlement control to the client even after the video has been altered. Specific embodiments of implementing the present invention are discussed with reference herein to .","In the following discussion, the terms \u201cprotection\u201d, \u201cencryption\u201d and \u201cscrambling\u201d, and their counterparts, i.e. \u201cdecryption\u201d and \u201cdescrambling\u201d, are used to describe operations to render data unintelligible to an unauthorized entity. The term \u201cprotection\u201d, and its variations, is used broadly herein to reference any method used to render data unintelligible. The term \u201cscrambling\u201d generally refers to using relatively efficient algorithms that use orthogonal functions such as data shifts and\/or XOR operations on large amounts of data. For example, data encryption standard (DES) scrambling is often used on video data. On the other hand, the term \u201cencryption\u201d generally refers to using relatively computationally intensive algorithms that use keys to render relatively small amounts of data unintelligible. One example of an encryption algorithm is the Rivest-Shamir-Adleman (RSA) algorithm. The techniques disclosed herein are applicable to various types of data, however, the specific embodiment described herein will be discussed primarily with reference to video data (video content).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["12","30","20","25"]},"The encryption key in  is included as part of the Entitlement Control Messages (ECM) and Entitlement Management Messages (EMM) indicators within connection . Specifically, the ECMs and EMMs are messages that adhere to specific protocols to provide the encryption key and other information used to enable the use of encryption keys. The principal use of an ECM is to deliver encryption keys, such as a DES (Data Encryption Standard) key, that will enable recovering (unprotecting) the video data (SERVICE) from its key protected state (P(SERVICE)). The principal use of an EMM is to distribute key management information to specific clients. One use of the key management information is to identify specific clients that are permitted to unprotect, thereby accessing, the SERVICE. Normally, a specific EMM contains information for a specific client, while the ECM contains key information used by all clients authorized by an EMM to access the SERVICE. For example, with respect to the system of , separate EMMs would generally be generated for each gateway  (only one shown) and each client \u2013.","Referring back to the method of , the key protected video data and encryption key information were received at step . At step , a key protected modified data, such as a modified video data, and the encryption key are provided. In , the key protected modified data and the encryption key are provided to clients \u2013 over connection , which represents either a common connection or a plurality of different connections to the clients \u2013. For example, the connection  can comprise one or more connections including fiber connections, wired connection, and wireless connections for transmitting data using various transmission protocols such as Ethernet, SONET Network, and others. The modified key protected video data is represented in  by the nomenclature P(M(SERVICE)), where M(SERVICE) is a modification of the received data (SERVICE), as indicated by the M designator. The P indicates that the modified data, M(SERVICE), is key protected based on the same encryption key as the encryption key received at step . When received at a video client, the protected modified video service can be unprotected using an encryption key, decoded and video images represented by the protected modified video service can be provided to a display device, such as device .","Processing time and\/or hardware costs for the gateway are reduced by reusing the receive encryption key information. By reusing some or all of the received EMMs and ECMs, which include the encryption keys and an authorization to use them, additional services can be provided by the gateway  with the saved bandwidth, or reduced performance hardware can be used to implement the gateway . There is also the added benefit of allowing service providers to extend their entitlement control and management down to the client device.","In one embodiment the functionality of gateway of  is substantially implemented using a monolithic semiconductor device. Such a monolithic semiconductor device can include any one of a variety of monolithic semiconductor chips or circuits, such as an integrated circuit (IC), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a dual-inline package (DIP), a microprocessor, and the like. For example, in at least one embodiment, monolithic semiconductor device  can be implemented as an ASIC that is used to de-scramble scrabbled multimedia content for a motion pictures experts group (MPEG) decoder. Monolithic semiconductor devices can be formed on a silicon substrate, a gallium arsenide substrate, or using any other semiconductor fabrication technology.  illustrates in block diagram form a more detailed view of the gateway .","The gateway embodiment illustrated in , includes information receiver , key protection removal portion , video stream modifier , data protector , storage location , key manager , decryptor interface connector , decryptor  and information provider .","Information receiver  is coupled to storage location  to provide encryption key information, and to the key protection removal portion  to provide key protected video data. The storage location  is coupled to the key manager  and to the information provider . The key manager  is coupled to a decryptor interface connector  to provide encryption key information to a decryptor , which is coupled to the decryptor interface connector . The decryptor interface connector  is further coupled to the key protection removal portion  and to data protector  to provide control word information based upon the encryption key information. The key protection removal portion  is coupled to the video stream modifier  to provide the unprotected video data (SERVICE). The video stream modifier  is coupled to the data protector  to provide a modified unprotected video data (P(SERVICE)). The data protector  is coupled to the information provider  to provide a key protected modified service. The information provider  provides the key protected modified service and encryption key information to one or more clients over a connection . Operation of the gateway  illustrated in  will be discussed in greater detail with reference to the methods of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["211","102","102"]},"The information receiver  provides the key protected video data to the key protection removal portion , and the encryption key information to the storage portion . It will be appreciated that the information receiver  can provide the key protected video data to the key protection removal portion  directly in streaming manner, or it can store the key protected video data in a memory location to support a subsequent access that will provide the key protection portion  as needed. Likewise, the information receiver  the can store the encryption key information directly into the storage location , or buffer the encryption key information for subsequent access.","The encryption key information storage location , which in one embodiment includes storage of ECM and EMM information, is coupled to the key manager  and to the information provider . Storing the EMM\/ECM information allows for the their subsequent use as part of the data stream provided over connection  to clients  through  as illustrated in .","Once the key protected video data is received at step , the flow of the method of  proceeds to step . At step  the key protected first video data is decoded based upon the encryption key to generate the unprotected video service (SERVICE). One embodiment of implementing step  is further illustrated by the method of , which provides control information, also known as control words (CW), to the key protection removal portion .","Referring to step  of  the encryption key is decrypted to obtain a control word. With respect to , this is accomplished by the key manager  providing the encryption key information, i.e. the ECM, to the decryptor  through the decryptor interface connector . Encryption keys periodically change, and it is the responsibility of the key manager  to provide the encryption keys to the decryptor  in a timely manner to allow to allow decryptor  time to generate the control words from the encryption key in time for the key protected video data to be unprotected in a timely manner. Generally, the key manager  provides encryption keys to the decryptor  as soon as they are available, and the newly generated control words are accessed by the key protection removal portion as they are needed. The decryptor  is can be a proprietary decryption device, such as a smart card.","At step , the control information is applied to perform a desired protect or unprotect function. With respect to step  of , the control word is applied at the key protection removal portion  to unprotect the key protected video data. In one embodiment, the key protection removal portion  is a video reconstruction portion that reconstructs protected video data from its key protected form and can be referred to as a video construction portion. Typically, the key protected video data is scrambled using orthogonal operations based upon the control word, and de-scrambled using the control word to implement an inverse set of orthogonal operations. In other embodiments, the key protected video data can be encrypted, whereby the key protection removal portion  will need to use the control word to decrypt the key protected video data.","At step  (), the unprotected video data is modified to generate a second or modified unprotected video data. For example, referring to , the video data (SERVICE) is received at the video stream modifier , which provides the modified video data M(SERVICE), which is also unprotected. The modified video data can differ from the unprotected video data in any of a number of manners. For example: the modified video data can be transcoded and\/or transrated with respect to the video data; have a different resolution than the unprotected video data; have a different transport protocol, such as from MPEG2 TO MPEG4; have a different bit rate; have a different frame rate; have a bitmap overlay, be watermarked, or otherwise altered in any way from the unprotected video data.","At step  () the modified data is protected based upon the encryption key received at step  to generate a key protected modified data. With reference to , the control words generated based on the encryption key are provided to the data protector , which acts as a video protection portion to provide the key protected modified data P(M(SERVICE)). Typically, the data protector  is a scrambler that modifies the modified data through the use of an orthogonal logic algorithm, although it will be understood that other protection schemes, such as encryption schemes could be used. This is an advantage over previously know methods, in that it is not necessary to determine a new set of control word at the gateway .","At step , the key protected modified video data and the original encryption key are provided to clients. Alternatively, at step , both the key protected modified video data and the received key protected video data are provided to clients. With reference to , the information provider  receives the key protected modified data and the encryption key information provides them as part of a digital output stream. Examples of digital output stream information include one or more of transport stream based digital data (QAM\/QPSK) using the TS multiplexer (MUX) , and Ethernet based digital data (IP) using network interface card , though other types of data conforming to various standard and\/or proprietary protocols can be used. The information will be responsible for providing the reused key information, for example the ECM\/EMM information, in accordance with the protocol being used. Information provider  further includes a transmitter  which can include a line driver or a wireless transmitter to transmit the digital output stream using a wireless connection or protocol. For example, a wireless Ethernet protocol, such as 802.11 or one of its derivatives (i.e. 802.11b and 802.11a) can be used to transmit the information.","For example, assuming the gateway  supports real time operation, with respect to processing the P(SERVICE) to obtain P(M(SERVICE)), the gateway  can provide newly received ECM information directly to the clients \u2013. This can be accomplished by transmitting the received ECM packet, without modification, to the clients \u2013 as soon as transport stream bandwidth is available. Even though the new encryption key has been sent, as part of the ECM packet, it will not be used by the clients to unprotect data until the gateway  transmits a transport stream that includes a scramble control flag that indicates to the clients \u2013 that the new encryption key is to be used. The switched scramble control flag is sent over the transport stream immediately prior to key protected modified video data that was protected using the new key is sent.","It is possible to reuse the received ECM and EMM packets, thereby eliminating the amount of overhead needed by the gateway  to generate and maintain encryption key information. Generally, the EMM and ECMs will be presented to clients in the same order in which they are received. However, it is possible to mix the order, as long as the key manager  and information provider  operate to assure the encryption key information used to protect data is available at the client before the protected data using that encryption key is sent. Also, it is possible for other information associated with received EMMs and ECMs to be modified before providing them to the clients, however it is generally advantageous to reuse the receive EMMs and ECMs without change. However, where a common protocol is being maintained, it will generally be advantageous to maintain the original EMM and ECM packet information.","In another embodiment of the present invention, a different data stream protocol can be used at the input of gateway  than at the output of gateway . In order to support such protocol conversion the various components, such as the key manager  and information provider , will need to operate in a coordinated manner that supports the conversion. For example, the encryption key portion of the ECM information may need to be extracted and transported to a client using a different protocol.","The preceding detailed description of the figures, reference has been made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof, and to which show by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It will be appreciated that many other varied embodiments that incorporate the teachings herein may be easily constructed by those skilled in the art. For example, when a specific component is said to provide data to another component it will be understood that the function of providing the data need not be actively initiated by the device described as providing the data, but may instead be initiated by another component which retrieves, or otherwise accesses the data, to accomplish the data access. Accordingly, the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein, but on the contrary, it is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications, and equivalents, as can be reasonably included within the spirit and scope of the invention. The preceding detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present disclosure is defined only by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various advantages, features and characteristics of the present disclosure, as well as methods, operation and functions of related elements of structure, and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture, will become apparent upon consideration of the following description and claims with reference to the accompanying drawings, all of which form a part of this specification.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0006","num":"0005"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
