---
title: Phased array antenna
abstract: A reconfigurable wide band phased array antenna for generating multiple antenna beams for multiple transmit and receive functions. The antenna array comprises multiple long non-resonant TEM slot antenna apertures with RF MEMS switches disposed within the slots. The RF MEMS switches are positioned directly within the feed lines across the slots to directly control the coupling of RF energy to the slots. Multiple RF MEMS switches are used within each slot, which allows multiple transmit/receive functions and/or multiple frequencies to be supported by each slot. The frequency coverage provided by the slot antenna has a greater than 10:1 frequency range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06965349&OS=06965349&RS=06965349
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 06965349
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020206
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N6601-99-C-8635 awarded by DARPA. The government has certain rights in this invention.","The present disclosure relates generally to phased array antennas and, more specifically, to reconfigurable wideband phased array antennas capable of generating multiple beams for multiple functions. The present disclosure describes a reconfigurable interleaved phased array antenna.","Defense and commercial electronic systems such as radar surveillance, terrestrial and satellite communications, navigation, identification, and electronic counter measures are often deployed on a single structure such as a ship, aircraft, satellite or building. These systems usually operate at different frequency bands in the electromagnetic spectrum. To support multiple band, multiple function operations, several single discrete antennas are usually installed on separate antenna platforms, which often compete for space on the structure that carries them. Additional antenna platforms add extra weight, occupy volume, and can cause electromagnetic compatibility, radar cross section, and observation problems.","There is a need to operate antenna apertures at close proximity to each other at different frequencies and with different functions, without detrimentally affecting antenna operation. It is often desired to have multiple band, wide scan, and multiple channel capabilities in a single platform. A typical architecture for providing multiple band, multiple function capabilities in a single platform is shown in . The antenna platform  comprises multiple antenna cells , where each cell consists of a radiating element , a transmission line that couples RF energy to the radiating element , and a radiating control element , such as a phase shifter, transmit and receive (T\/R) module, or other devices that control the RF energy radiated from each radiating element . Each antenna cell is coupled to a separate transmit or receive function . Each transmit or receive function an independent process of amplitude, phase, and\/or frequency. For example, one function may the transmission of a satellite communication signal at 2 GHz, while another function may be the receipt of a radar signal at 10 GHz. The antenna platform  may comprise a planar array that contains several of the antenna cells latticed in two dimensions, with each cell acting collectively to produce a far field beam related to the overall desired functional properties.","An antenna platform may use a different density of antenna cells occupying the same lattice space for different transmit or receive functions. For example, a high frequency function, such as a radar operating at 10 GHz, may use several antenna cells to provide for precision beam steering, while a low frequency function, such as a communication channel operating at 2 GHz, may use fewer antenna cells due to its lower wavelength. The use of different densities of antenna cells for different functions is sometimes referred to as array thinning. Each transmit or receive function may require a unique lattice spacing to optimize radiation performance, such as to provide grating lobe free scanning, or to optimize beam width synthesis. At lower frequencies, phase control over fewer radiating elements is required to achieve grating lobe free scanning, since only elements spaced more than a half wavelength apart must be controlled.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","210","210","210","10","10","10","200","10","210","10","210","10","210","210","210","210","216","216","216","214","214","214","212","212","212"],"sub":["A","B","C ","A","B","C","A ","A","B ","B","C ","C","A","B","C ","A","B","C","A","B","C","A","B","C"]},"Note that thinning the array reduces the number of elements required in the planar array. For example, if a planar array uses sixteen antenna cells for each function, and the array services three functions, a total of forty-eight antenna cells are required for the array. This also means that forty-eight radiating elements, transmission lines, and radiating control elements are also required. However, if the array thinning illustrated in  is used, fewer antenna cells and thus fewer antenna components are required. For example, in , if the first function uses a total of sixteen antenna cells to achieve the desired performance, sixteen radiating elements , transmission lines , and radiating control elements are required. However, the second function will require only half as many antenna cells , so it requires only eight radiating elements , transmission lines , and radiating control elements . Finally, the third function requires one-quarter as many antenna cells as the first function , so it requires only four radiating elements , transmission lines , and radiating control elements . Hence, the array thinning shown in  provides a significant reduction in the number of components.","Antenna cells of a thinned planar array can be interleaved in a single array as shown in . However, if the radiating elements are in close proximity to each other, the RF energy from an antenna cell supporting one function is likely to couple to another antenna cell and reduce the performance of the array. One approach to reduce the coupling of RF energy is to switch the unused cells, as shown in . In , each antenna cell in the planar array  consists of a radiating control element , an RF switch , a transmission line , and a radiating element . However, simply disconnecting an unused cell with the RF switch , is not desired because the finite length of open circuit transmission lines tends to add spurious impedance to the array , or losses can occur when the switches are terminated in loads.","The prior art discloses many techniques for addressing the interleaving problems discussed above without the use of switches. Provencher et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 3,623,111, Bowen et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 4,772,890, Chu et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 5,557,291, and Mott et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 5,461,392 disclose examples of multiple band arrays that do not use switches to provide operation at multiple frequency bands. These arrays generally use radiating elements configured to radiate radio frequency energy at a specific frequency band. Dissipation of the active ports is minimized by reducing the coupling of energy into adjacent inactive radiating elements. Because the adjacent elements in an interleaved aperture can re-radiate spurious signals with an amplitude and phase varying over frequency, thus interfering with the radiation of the desired signal, the apertures within these arrays are usually cross-polarized from one another or widely spaced in frequency to avoid mutual coupling errors. However, these design choices limit the flexibility of the array.","The prior art also discloses reusing radiating elements at lower frequency bands by coupling the radiating elements with the transmit or receive function with an RF combiner , such as a coupler, diplexer, or switch, as shown in .  shows an antenna array  where three transmit or receive functions are coupled to separate radiating control elements . However, the outputs of the radiating control elements are multiplexed to the minimum number of radiating elements  required to support a specific function by using RF combiners . In the example depicted in , one function requires four radiating elements , so the array only contains four radiating elements . Hence, the antenna cell used to support a specific transmit or receive function actually shares the radiating element  and transmission line  with an antenna cell used to support another transmit or receive function .","In an architecture where the radiating elements are shared or \u201creused,\u201d passive couplers tend to introduce losses, so the use of diplexers or band pass filters is preferred. Tang et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 5,087,922 disclose bandpass filters coupled to dipole elements that present open circuits or short circuits at particular operating frequencies. Lee et. al in U.S. Pat. No. 4,689,627 disclose diplexers coupled to radiating elements in an array, where the diplexers provide isolation between the two frequency bands at which the array operates. However, reusing radiating elements in this manner may require the use of extremely complex and costly multiple band diplexers and\/or wideband radiating elements.","Therefore, there exists a need in the art for an antenna array that can support multiple functions over extremely large bandwidths. There exists a further need in the art for an antenna array that provides improved isolation between signals at different operating frequencies, greater efficiency, and the flexibility to operate at several frequencies.","It is an object of the present invention to provide an antenna array and method of receiving and radiating radio-frequency (RF) signals for the transmission and reception of RF signals over large bandwidths. It is a further object of the present invention to provide the capability to support multiple band, wide scan, and multiple channel capabilities in a single antenna array. It is still a further object of the present invention to provide the multiple band, wide scan, multiple channel capability in an antenna array with high array efficiency, low backscatter, low active reflection from the array, and high isolation between the multiple channels of the array.","These objects and others are provided by an antenna array which comprises multiple antenna apertures and multiple miniature switches disposed at or within the antenna apertures. The switches provide the capability to interleave and switch multiple transmit and receive functions directly at the antenna apertures. Preferably, the switches are RF MEMS switches that have the small size and channel isolation capabilities that optimally provide for switching RF signals at the antenna apertures. The antenna apertures are preferably long non-resonant TEM slots that provide the capability to operate over a 10:1 frequency range. Long non-resonant slots have lengths that generally exceed the largest operating wavelength (the lowest frequency to be radiated by the slot) and widths that are generally less than the smallest operating wavelength (the highest frequency to be radiated by the slot). Preferably, an impedance matching radome is used to match the impedance of the antenna apertures with free space to direct radiation transmission and reception to the front hemisphere of the array and to increase transmission efficiency.","In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided an array antenna for radiating RF energy comprising: a plurality of non-resonant slot apertures, each non-resonant slot aperture having a first side and a second side and an opening between the first side and the second side; a plurality of antenna feeds, one or more antenna feeds of the plurality of antenna feeds located on a first side or a second side of each non-resonant slot aperture; a plurality of switches deployed immediately adjacent to each one of the plurality of non-resonant slot apertures, each switch of the plurality of switches connected to at least one antenna feed and controllable to selectively couple RF energy from at least one antenna feed located on one side of an adjacent slot aperture across the opening of the adjacent non-resonant slot aperture to the other side of the adjacent non-resonant slot aperture. The plurality of non-resonant slot apertures may comprise openings in a metal layer, wherein each opening has a length and width to form a non-resonant slot.","In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of radiating and receiving RF energy with an antenna array having a smallest operating wavelength and a largest operating wavelength, the method comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of non-resonant slot apertures; providing a plurality of switches, one or more of said switches being disposed in proximity to each non-resonant slot aperture, each of said switches having a first position coupling RF energy to the aperture in proximity to the switch and having a second position isolating RF energy from the aperture in proximity to the switch; switching some of the plurality of switches to the first position; switching the remaining switches to the second position; applying RF energy to the switches.","In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a beam-steered antenna array comprising: a plurality of non-resonant slot apertures, each non-resonant slot aperture having a first side and a second side and an opening between the first side and the second side; a plurality of groups of switches, each group of switches comprising a plurality of switches deployed immediately adjacent to the antenna apertures, the switches controllable to selectively couple RF energy at different points across the opening of each non-resonant slot aperture; a plurality of beamformers, each beamformer connected to a separate group of switches in the plurality of groups of switches; and an RF switch selectively controllable to couple RF energy to a selected one of beamformers in the plurality of beamformers. The plurality of non-resonant slot apertures may be arranged to form a planar array, wherein the slot apertures are positioned along a rectangular grid. Preferably, the slot apertures in the planar array are oriented so that the slots are generally parallel to each other.","In accordance with still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of antenna beamforming, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of non-resonant slot apertures in an antenna array; providing a plurality of groups of switches, each group of switches comprising a plurality of switches deployed at different positions immediately adjacent the non-resonant slot apertures, each of said switches having a first position coupling RF energy to the aperture in proximity to the switch and having a second position isolating RF energy from the aperture in proximity to the switch; providing a plurality of beamformers, each beamformer connected to a separate group of switches in the plurality of groups of switches; coupling RF energy to a selected one of the beamformers in the group of beamformers; switching the switches in the group of switches connected to the selected beamformer to either the first position or the second position; and switching the remaining switches to the second position. The switches from each group of switches may be disposed at the apertures at different densities, such that, for example, for every switch from a first group of switches there are four switches from a second group of switches. If the groups of switches are disposed at different densities, it is preferable that at least one switch from the group of switches disposed at higher densities is within one-tenth wavelength of the lowest operating wavelength of the slot apertures of each switch from the group of switches disposed at lower densities.","In accordance with still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a phased array antenna system having a smallest operating wavelength and a largest operating wavelength and having multiple functions, the phased array antenna system comprising: a plurality of transmit\/receive modules, each transmit\/receive module being coupled to the multiple functions and having multiple channels, each channel being coupled out of the transmit\/receive module at one or more transmit\/receive ports; one or more non-resonant slot apertures, each slot aperture having a first side and a second side and an opening between the first side and the second side; a plurality of antenna feeds, one or more antenna feeds of the plurality of antenna feeds located on a first side or a second side of a corresponding one of the slot apertures, each antenna feed coupled to one transmit\/receive port of the one or more transmit\/receive ports on one transmit\/receive module; and a plurality of switches deployed immediately adjacent to the non-resonant slot apertures, each switch of the plurality of switches connected to one antenna feed and controllable to selectively couple RF energy from the antenna feed located on one side of the corresponding slot aperture across the opening of the corresponding non-resonant slot aperture to the other side of the corresponding slot aperture.","The present invention provides the capability of generating multiple beams for multiple functions. This capability may be provided by controlling RF MEMS switches populated over one or more wide band non-resonant slotted apertures. An array of such apertures provides frequency and beam pointing ability for both transmit and receive functions over a wide frequency range of 10:1 or greater. In essence, the present invention provides the capability to combine multiple antennas in a single structure by switching the excitation points provided by the switches deployed at various points at the apertures. This single structure provides significant improvements in size, weight, volume, radar cross section, electromagnetic compatibility, and other antenna factors over other state-of-the-art antenna systems.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 2 and 3"],"b":["500","10","10","520","530","581","580"],"sub":["A,B,C","A,B,C ","A,B,C ","A,B,C ","A,B,C "]},"Preferably, the switches are radio frequency micro electromechanical systems (RF MEMS) switches. RF MEMS switches provide significant advantages over other types of switches in this application. Diode switches exhibit significant losses at microwave and millimeter wave frequencies. An RF MEMS switch is smaller than any state of the art metal contacting relay, and will easily fit within RF apertures sized for millimeter and microwave frequencies. Direct switching within the aperture leaves adjacent, unused transmit or receive paths very well isolated, such that they comprise almost ideal open circuits. Such isolation provides very little spurious reactance over extremely wide frequencies of operation. Switching unused feeds within the aperture (instead of further away and behind the transmission feeds as described above and shown in ) also allows the present invention to provide transmit and receive capabilities for several separate functions that are closely spaced in frequency.","Preferably, the RF aperture  comprises a long narrow non-resonant-radiating slot. The non-resonate radiating slot should have a length of at least multiple wavelengths of the lowest operating frequency of RF signals to be radiated by the slot. With the slots sufficiently long, TEM radiation can occur over very large bandwidths. The slot may be shared by transmit and receive functions over at least a 10 to 1 operating bandwidth. In the description below, the periodically excited non-resonant slot has an extremely wide bandwidth of at least 10:1. A phased array antenna according to the present invention will preferably comprise multiple slots. The slots are latticed in a large array in both horizontal and vertical directions to achieve increased beam control and resolution.","The array may comprise a single array of multiple slots, where all the slots have the same longitudinal orientation, that is, the slots are arranged so that the long dimension of the slots are all parallel to each other. The array may also comprise a group of subarrays, where the slots in each subarray are oriented the same, but the slot orientation from subarray to subarray may differ. Additionally, a radome (not shown in ) may be used to cover the aperture. The radome may be constructed such that the radiation of the apertures  is directed into a front hemispherical coverage. The radome may also be used to protect the switches hermetically, if desired.","The aperture  is excited by shunt probes, which in turn are activated by RF MEMS switches coupled to RF transmission lines . In the case of a slot aperture, the shunt probe is essentially an RF connection across the slot to ground, so the RF MEMS switch, when in the closed position, acts as the shunt probe. When the RF MEMS switch is open, any RF energy applied to the switch is isolated from the slot and is not radiated by the slot.","For effective antenna beam control, the probes that are radiating a specific signal are preferably spaced close enough together so that no grating lobes will be generated at the highest frequency at which the signal is to be radiated. If multiple sets of probes are configured to radiate independent signals or independent transmit\/receive functions, the probes in each set should be spaced close enough together to avoid the creation of grating lobes. For example,  shows a first set of radiating control elements coupled to transmission lines and switches within the aperture . A second set of radiating control elements and a third set are likewise coupled to the same aperture , in which the antenna is reconfigured by activating the embedded RF MEMS switches or , respectively, thereby activating the independent functions. The small size of the RF MEMS switches easily allows the switches for each group to be spaced closely enough together to avoid grating lobes. Additionally, the small size of the switches allows the switches for multiple independent functions to all be spaced closely enough together to avoid grating lobes for all the functions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","600","610","620","621","620","630","611","610","621","620","610","610","700","611"]},"The radiating slot  is a long non-resonant TEM slot. Therefore, the width of the radiating slot  and the corresponding substrate slot  should be wide enough to accommodate the RF MEMS switch , but as narrow as possible. The total length of the radiating slot  should be long enough to support the lowest operating frequency of the RF signals to be sent or received by the antenna cell . The RF MEMS switches  within the antenna cell  should be positioned apart much less than \u00bd the wavelength of the highest operating wavelength of the antenna cell  and are preferably positioned apart less than 1\/10 the wavelength of the smallest operating wavelength.","The ground plane  may comprise a metal plate with multiple slots punched, cut, or otherwise provided in the plate. The ground plane  may also comprise a metal layer deposited on top of the radome  or on the underside of the substrate  using techniques known in the art, such as vacuum deposition. The metal used in the ground plane  comprises metals typically used for ground plane conduction, such as gold, copper, or aluminum. However, if the weight of the array is a concern, aluminum may be preferable.","The substrate  typically comprises a high dielectric, low loss material. Such materials include alumina\/polymer hybrids, epoxy-filled substrates with alumina powder, and other microwave substrates known in the art. If the array structure is fabricated monolithically using semiconductor fabrication techniques, the substrate  may comprise semiconductor materials such as silicon or gallium-arsenide. The radome  comprises similar material, although the radome  preferably comprises multiple layers of different materials, as discussed below. Typical materials used in the fabrication of the substrate and radome are available from Rogers Corporation Microwave Materials Division of Chandler, Ariz.","RF energy is supplied to each RF MEMS switch  by an RF port . This port  may comprise simply a connection to an RF energy source, or may comprise an active device that provides control over the RF energy coupled into and out of the device. The three RF ports  depicted in  may be coupled to the same transmit or receive function, or may be coupled to separate functions to allow for interleaving of functions with the cell . Transmission lines  couple the RF MEMS switches  to the RF ports . The transmission lines may comprise micro-strips positioned directly on the substrate . The transmission lines  may also have an impedance of 50 ohms, to provide for connection to standard devices. Preferably, the transmission lines  within a cell are spaced apart at much less than \u00bd wavelength of the highest desired operating wavelength of the cell  to minimize coupling effects.","An RF contact  in each RF MEMS switch , traversing in the z direction across the substrate slot , causes radiation coupling across the radiating slot  when energized to contact an input RF line  and an output RF line . An RF connection  connects the transmission line  to the RF input line . The RF connection  may comprise a wirebond, or other connection means known in the art. On the opposite side of the substrate slot  is a ground pad , which connects to the RF output line  via a ground connection . The ground connection  may also comprise a wirebond. The ground pad  is connected to the ground plane  by a via (not shown in ) in the x direction. The RF MEMS switch , when closed, connects the transmission line  to the ground pad , and thus to the ground plane . The closure of the switch  therefore results in RF energy being coupled across the radiating slot  and radiated by the radiating slot .","The actuation of the RF MEMS switch  is controlled by a DC bias signal applied to the switch. In , a DC control voltage is supplied to a DC bias pad . A DC connection  connects the DC bias pad  to a first switch bias pad  on the switch . The DC connection  may also comprise a wirebond. A DC return connection  connects a second switch bias pad  to the ground pad . Application of a DC voltage causes the RF MEMS switch  to close, and thus controls the radiation of RF energy through the switch .","An alternative embodiment of an antenna cell  according to the present invention is depicted in . As shown in , the RF MEMS switches  may be fabricated directly on top of the substrate  and over the radiating slot  in the ground plane . Since the substrate is typically less than a fraction of a wavelength thick, a substrate slot  is not required for the coupling of RF energy from the transmission line  to the ground pad , which is connected by a via (not shown) to the ground plane . As described above, closure of the RF MEMS switch  couples RF energy from the RF port  to the radiating slot , which results in the radiation of the RF energy from the radiating slot .","Fabricating the RF MEMS switches  directly on the substrate  without forming a substrate slot may allow for simpler fabrication of the antenna cell  according to an embodiment of the present invention. In forming the antenna cell , both sides of the substrate  may initially be coated with metal. The lower side of the substrate  may be etched to remove metal to form radiating slots . The upper side of the substrate  may be etched to remove metal to form transmission lines , DC bias pads  and ground pads . The RF MEMS switches can then be fabricated directly atop the substrate  using MEMS fabrication techniques well-known in the art. For example, vacuum deposition may be used to deposit one or more deposited metal layers to form the DC bias connections  from the DC bias pads  to the first switch bias pads  and the DC ground connections  from the ground pads  to the second switch bias pad . Similarly, one or more metal layers may be deposited to form the input RF lines  and output RF lines .","Other embodiments of antenna arrays according to the present invention may comprise monolithic RF transmission lines, MEMS wire bonds, and DC bias lines all integrated together and fabricated using standard semiconductor fabrication techniques well known in the art. Similarly, the RF MEMS switch may also be constructed using standard semiconductor fabrication techniques well known in the art.","The closely spaced RF MEMS switches  that short selected RF transmission lines  to ground in the slot  enable the excitation of radiation from the slot  and through the radome . The radome  comprises materials with a relative high dielectric. The radome  ensures that the RF energy emitted from the slot  will propagate in the x direction, since the high dielectric of the substrate  will keep the energy from radiating from the other side of the slot . As discussed above, the radome  comprises layers of materials similar to that used for the substrate .","Preferably, the RF MEMS switch  comprises a cantilever design such as disclosed by Loo et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 6,046,659, issued Apr. 4, 2000. A top view of an exemplary RF MEMS switch  is shown in . In , input RF energy is applied at an input RF pad , and RF energy is coupled out of the switch at an output RF pad . DC actuation pads ,  provide the DC voltage required to open and close the switch .","A side-view schematic illustration of both the open and closed configurations of the exemplary RF MEMS switch  is shown in . The cantilevered structure carries the RF contact  that provides for metal to metal contact between the input RF line  and the output RF line . The RF signal path is perpendicular to the length of the cantilever. Cantilever RF MEMS switches are preferable in the present invention due to the extremely low insertion loss and high isolation over an ultra-wide bandwidth. These switches also require extremely low power to actuate the switch. However, other switches known in the art may also be used to provide RF shorting within the slot. The switches may be provided as separate elements positioned within the slot, or may be integrally formed with the substrate and slot.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 16"],"b":["750","20","621","1650","750","641","750","643","751","20","752","753","20","620","645"]},"The radome  covering the slot , as shown in , can be matched to free space by methods well known in the art  illustrates one example of matching a relative dielectric of 9.6 to free space using several intermediate layers. One method for determining the dielectric layers required to achieve the desired impedance matching is disclosed by R. W. Klopfenstein in \u201cA Transmission Line Taper Of Inproved Design,\u201d Proce. IRE, January 1956, pp. 31\u201335.  shows the variation in dielectric profiled achieved with the layered structure depicted in .  shows that the reflection realized by the layered radome depicted in  is less than \u221215 dB over the 10:1 band from 5 GHz to 15 GHz. This radome design allows high efficiency for the radiation through the multiple layer dielectric medium attached to the substrate, while being shielded from the RF circuitry.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B","FIG. 9B"],"b":["630","620","621","630","620","630","620","610","605"],"sub":"r "},"The intended bandwidth for the antenna array is one factor used in determining the number of layers and the widths of the layers. If the antenna is to support a wide bandwidth, there will be more layers and the layers will be thicker. If the antenna is to support a narrower bandwidth, there will be fewer layers in the radome and the layers will be thinner. Preferably, the top layer of the radome, that is, the layer of the radome in contact with free space, comprises Teflon\u00ae, so that a good dielectric match to free space is obtained.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["900","950","950","950","900","951","953","950","950","900","950"]},"In , feed lines  couple the T\/R module  channels to the RF MEMS switches  within the array . The lattice spacing of the RF MEMS switches  connected to channel A is such that individual phasing of the RF energy coupled to the switches  will result in grating lobe-free beam scanning in the front hemisphere for low band frequencies. The lattice spacing used for channel B is four times as dense, and therefore supports grating lobe-free beam scanning at frequencies higher than those used with channel A. The array depicted in  also shows the use of array thinning, where channel A uses only one-quarter the number of radiators that are used for channel B. Hence, the feedlines  used for channel B signals actually connect to two RF MEMS switches , while the feedlines used for channel A signal only connect to a single RF MEMS switch. Note also that  shows the DC connection to the RF MEMS switch supplied from one side of the slot while the DC return connection is supplied from the other side of the slot. The DC connection and DC return connection may also be supplied from the same side of the slot as shown in  and described above.","Prior art antenna arrays that use the dual channel T\/R module described above are effectively limited to support the same transmit or receive function with both channels, due to the narrow band limitations (of about 30%) of those prior art antenna arrays. However, reconfigurable antenna arrays according to the present invention can truly exploit the dual channel features of the T\/R module, since such reconfigurable antenna arrays provide a usable system bandwidth that extends over a 10:1 frequency range.","A two-channel embodiment of an antenna array according to the present invention has been modeled with a first channel C of switches spaced 0.225 inches (0.57 cm) apart and a second lattice D of switches spaced 0.45 (1.14 cm) inches apart. Performance of a unit cell according to the present invention was modeled in an infinite broadside excited array. The array model assumes several of these cells latticed in two dimensions, with each cell acting collectively to produce a far field beam related to the overall desired functional properties of the first channel C or the second channel D, depending upon the states of the RF MEMS switches. Results of the model are presented in .","In , the computed radiation efficiency of the far field beam scanned for the broadside case at the two operating frequencies serving the low band function D and the high band function C is shown. The radiation efficiency remains between \u22121 dB and \u22122 dB over the frequencies of interest for those functions.","In , the computed active input reflection seen at RF ports providing RF energy to the RF MEMS switches is shown for the two functions. The input reflection is less than \u221210 dB over the frequencies of interest. The active reflection is computed based on modeling the mutual coupling as coming from an infinite series of cells latticed in the array.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},"The present invention provides the ability to reconfigure an antenna array for different scenarios.  illustrates some examples of the different scenarios. As described above, RF MEMS  switches can be deployed within the apertures of an antenna array  and controlled such that an extremely dense lattice of radiating elements is achieved A dense lattice provides the ability to avoid grating lobes over a wide volume of antenna scan. The RF MEMS switches can then be controlled within an antenna array  to provide a sparse lattice for low frequencies. Controlling the RF MEMS switches so that fewer are closed results in a thinned array that reduces the number of T\/R modules required to excite the array at the lower frequency. The RF MEMS switches can also be controlled to provide an antenna array  with a non-uniform lattice. Control of the RF MEMS switches in this manner provides the ability for additional beam control so that flat top, cosecant, and other shapes of antenna beams can be realized. Different shapes of antenna beams can also be obtained with uniform lattices, but the non-uniform lattice capability provided by the present invention provides an extra degree of freedom in forming such antenna beams, thus providing increased performance. The RF MEMS switches can also be controlled so as to lower the sidelobes of antenna beams or to implement adaptive nulling within the beams.","The present invention also provides the ability to achieve coarse antenna beam scanning with fewer phase shifters than required in the prior art. As shown in , an RF device , such as a T\/R module, may connected to an array of passive beamformers . . . through a switch  which selects one of the beamformers . . . . Different phase delays required to steer the antenna beam to specific directions are hardwired in each passive beamformer. Each passive beamformer is then coupled to a different set of RF MEMS switches  deployed within the apertures  of an array. The small size of the RF MEMS switches allows them to be placed within much less than 0.1 wavelengths of each other, or, for purposes of RF radiation, essentially at the same places within the aperture. The RF device  is switched to a particular beamformer . . . via the RF switch  and the RF MEMS switches  associated with that beamformer . . . are activated to select a particular antenna beam . If another antenna beam  is desired, a separate beamformer . . . is selected and the corresponding switches  activated. Coarse beam scanning provided by this embodiment of the present invention allows for multiple discrete beams to be created, at a lower cost than required with conventional active arrays which may require phase shifters at each radiating element.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 17","FIG. 17"],"b":["1770","1760","1720","1770"]},"From the foregoing description, it will be apparent that the present invention has a number of advantages, some of which have been described above, and others of which are inherent in the embodiments of the invention described above. Also, it will be understood that modifications can be made to the reconfigurable interleaved phased array antenna described above without departing from the teachings of subject matter described herein. As such, the invention is not to be limited to the described embodiments except as required by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 8A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 8B","FIG. 8A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 8C","FIG. 8A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 9B","FIG. 9A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 18"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
