---
title: Method and apparatus for diversity searching and demodulator assignment in a wireless communication system
abstract: A method and apparatus for diversity searching and demodulator finger assignment in receivers with multiple receive chains enhances reception using optimal search and demodulator finger assignment operations. Optimal search and demodulator finger assignment for diversity environments provides improved interference cancellation and exploitation of independent fading by ensuring cell and receive chain diversity. After performing standard single antenna searching operations for each diversity receive chain, demodulator finger assignments are made according to signal strength and cell diversity. Signal paths are then re-assigned to achieve receive chain diversity if necessary. The availability of power control combiners may be considered when making demodulator finger assignments depending on the architecture of diversity receiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07061971&OS=07061971&RS=07061971
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 07061971
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020711
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Field","The presently disclosed embodiments relate generally to wireless communications, and more specifically to a novel and improved method of diversity searching and demodulator assignment in receivers with multiple receive chains.","2. Background","Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication such as voice, data, fax, and so on. These systems may be based on code division multiple access (CDMA), time division multiple access (TDMA), or other modulation techniques. A CDMA system provides certain advantages over other types of systems, including increased system capacity.","The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,901,307, entitled \u201cSPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS,\u201d and U.S. Pat. No. 5,103,459, entitled \u201cSYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM.\u201d Another specific CDMA system is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08\/963,386, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,574,211, issued Jun. 3, 2003, entitled \u201cMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HIGH RATE PACKET DATA TRANSMISSION,\u201d (hereinafter, the HDR system). These patents and patent application are assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference.","A CDMA system may be designed to support one or more CDMA standards such as (1) the \u201cTIA\/EIA-95-B Mobile Station-Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System\u201d (the IS-95 standard), (2) the \u201cTIA\/EIA-98-C Recommended Minimum Standard for Dual-Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular Mobile Station\u201d (the IS-98 standard), (3) the standard offered by a consortium named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project\u201d (3GPP) and embodied in a set of documents including Document Nos. 3G TS 25.211, 3G TS 25.212, 3G TS 25.213, and 3G TS 25.214 (the W-CDMA standard), (4) the standard offered by a consortium named \u201c3rd Generation Partnership Project 2\u201d (3GPP2) and embodied in a set of documents including \u201cTR-45.5 Physical Layer Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems,\u201d the \u201cC.S0005-A Upper Layer (Layer ) Signaling Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems,\u201d and the \u201cC.S0024 cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification\u201d (the cdma2000 standard), and (5) some other standards. These standards are incorporated herein by reference. A system that implements the High Rate Packet Data specification of the cdma2000 standard is referred to herein as a high data rate (HDR) system. The HDR system is documented in TIA\/EIA-IS-856, \u201cCDMA2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification,\u201d and incorporated herein by reference. Proposed wireless systems also provide a combination of HDR and low data rate services (such as voice and fax services) using a single air interface.","CDMA receivers commonly employ RAKE receivers, described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,109,390 entitled \u201cDIVERSITY RECEIVER IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM,\u201d assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. A rake receiver is typically made up of one or more searchers for locating direct and multi-path pilots from neighboring base stations, and two or more multi-path demodulator fingers for receiving and combining information signals from those base stations. Searchers are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/892,280, now U.S. Publication No. 2001-0046205, published Nov. 29, 2001, entitled \u201cMULTI-PATH SEARCH PROCESSOR FOR SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS,\u201d filed Jun. 26, 2001, and U.S. Pat. No. 6,363,108, entitled \u201cPROGRAMMABLE MATCHED FILTER SEARCHER,\u201d issued Mar. 26, 2002, both assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. The rake receiver processes a modulated signal that has been transmitted on the forward or reverse link using the searcher element and finger processors. The searcher element searches for strong instances of the received signal known as multi-paths. The finger processors are assigned to process the strongest multi-paths to generate demodulated symbols for those multi-paths. The rake receiver then combines the demodulated symbols from all assigned finger processors to generate recovered symbols that are estimates of the transmitted data. The rake receiver efficiently combines energy received via multiple signal paths.","Inherent in the design of direct sequence CDMA systems is the requirement that a receiver must align its Pseudorandom Noise (PN) sequences to the pilot PN of the base station. A base station distinguishes itself from other base stations by inserting a unique time offset in the generation of its PN sequences. In IS-95 systems, all base stations are offset by an integer multiple of 64 chips. A subscriber unit communicates with a base station by assigning at least one demodulator finger to that base station. An assigned demodulator finger must insert the appropriate offset into its PN sequence in order to communicate with that base station. It is also possible to differentiate base stations by using unique PN sequences for each base station rather than offsets of the same PN sequence. In this case, a demodulator finger would adjust its PN generator to produce the appropriate PN sequence for the base station to which it is assigned.","To improve the quality of wireless transmissions, communication systems often employ multiple radiating antenna elements at the transmitter, or diversity transmission, to communicate information to a receiver. Multiple antennas are desirable, as wireless communication systems tend to be interference-limited, and the use of multiple antenna elements reduces inter-symbol and co-channel interference introduced during modulation and transmission of radio signals, enhancing the quality of communications. Further, the use of multiple element antenna arrays at both the transmitter and receiver enhances the capacity of multiple-access communication systems. Multi-path signals may be generated at a receiver by diversity transmission or as a result of dispersion of the channel during transmission.","Thus, at a receiving destination, more than one receiver chain may be needed to process the multi-path received signals. A diversity receiver may have multiple antennas. A receiver chain for signals received at each antenna may be necessary. Therefore, multiple receiver chains may be necessary to exploit the multi-path signals received at multiple receive antennas. Receivers equipped with multiple receive chains are able to enhance their reception with improved interference cancellation and capitalization of independent fading of the receive chains, but complexity is created in the searching and assignment of the received multi-paths to the demodulation fingers of the RAKE receiver. Finger limitation becomes an important issue for diversity receivers, as compared to single element receivers, because the number of possible paths produced by each search of each active set element is a multiplied by the number of antenna elements, complicating the task of selecting the best paths for signal combining.","Thus, there is a need in the art for maximizing reception of multi-path signals by emphasizing the diversity of receive chains using optimal search and triage operations for diversity receivers.","Embodiments disclosed herein address the above-stated need for maximizing reception of multi-path signals by emphasizing the diversity of receive chains using optimal search and demodulator finger assignment operations for diversity receivers.","The word \u201cexemplary\u201d is used exclusively herein to mean \u201cserving as an example, instance, or illustration.\u201d Any embodiment described herein as \u201cexemplary\u201d is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","112","114","116","118","130"]},"Receiver unit  may comprise a cellular telephone for mobile subscribers (mobile station), a cordless telephone, a paging device, a wireless local loop device, a personal digital assistant (PDA), an Internet telephony device, a component of a satellite communication system, or any other receiving component of a communications system. At a receiver unit , the transmitted signal(s) is received by one or more antennas \u2013and provided to a receiver (RCVR) . The diversity architecture of receiver unit  is detailed in . Within receiver , each received signal is amplified, filtered, frequency downconverted, quadrature demodulated, and digitized to provide inphase (I) and quadrature (Q) samples. The samples may be digitally processed and then provided to a receive (RX) data processor  that further processes and decodes the samples to recover the transmitted data signals. The processing and decoding at RX data processor  are performed in a manner complementary to the processing and encoding performed at TX data processor . RX data processor  may apply multi-path searching and diversity optimization demodulator finger assignment algorithms detailed in  and , respectively, to the recovered signals. The decoded data is then provided to a data sink .","The diversity communication system described above supports transmissions of traffic data, messaging, voice, video, and other types of communication in one direction. A bi-directional communication system supports two-way data transmission.  can represent the forward link processing in a CDMA system, in which case, transmitter unit  can represent a base station and receiver unit  can represent a mobile station.  may also represent the reverse link processing in a CDMA system, in which case, transmitter unit  can represent a mobile station and receiver unit  can represent a base station. The disclosed embodiments are equally applicable to modulation techniques other than CDMA.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["130","130","132","132","132","210","210","134","210","132","222","224","226","228","230","136","136"],"i":["a ","k. ","a","k "]},"As shown in , receiver unit  includes a number of antennas through that couple to a number of pre-processors through used to process the signals received via the antennas. Each combination of antenna  and pre-processor  forms part of a signal path (multi-path) used to process a particular received signal. The use of multiple antennas  in receiver unit  provides spatial diversity and may further suppress interference from other transmission sources, both of which can improve performance.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["210","210","210","210"]},"In a conventional system with one antenna, the single antenna provides multiple paths that are assigned to the available demodulators based simply on signal strengths. For example, the four strongest signal paths would be assigned to four available demodulators. In the exemplary diversity embodiment with 2 antennas and four demodulators, optimal utilization of the signals from the two antennas cannot be obtained by simply assigning the strongest signal paths to the available demodulators. To get the maximum performance in a diversity environment, cell diversity and antenna diversity must be preserved by using the searcher and demodulator resources in an optimal manner for the diversity environment. First, searching is performed to detect the set of possible paths by performing a standard search for a single antenna on each antenna of the diversity receiver. Then, a diversity optimization demodulator finger assignment algorithm, or triage, is applied to the set of possible paths produced by searching the diversity antenna signals. The diversity optimization demodulator finger assignment algorithm maximizes reception of the diversity antenna signals by emphasizing the diversity of the multiple receive chains in assigning paths to demodulator fingers. The novel use of searcher and demodulator resources for diversity optimization is detailed in the following figures.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"]},"The searching operation  begins at step . Control flow proceeds to step .","In step , the next PN, or element, in the active set is selected for search. Control flow proceeds to step .","In step , the energy in a predetermined number of time offsets around the PN selected in step  is measured for correlation. In an exemplary embodiment, the predetermined number of offsets is four. Step  is repeated for each diversity antenna. In an exemplary embodiment, there are 2 antennas. When step  has been performed for each antenna, control flow proceeds to step .","In step , if all of the PN elements in the active set have not been searched, control flow returns to step . If all of the PNs have been searched, control flow proceeds to step .","In step , a predetermined number of the highest correlation peaks for each antenna are selected as possible paths. Control flow proceeds to step , ending the process.","When antenna diversity is added to a receiver, the number of possible paths is the number of paths returned by the searching operation for all cells multiplied by the number of antennas. In an exemplary embodiment, a receiving unit having two antennas is in handoff with three cells, and the searching operation returns four paths for each cell, producing 24 possible paths. In another embodiment having 6 elements in the active set, there are 48 possible paths. Thus, the complexity of assigning paths to demodulator fingers is compounded in a diversity system. Diversity optimization triage of assigning the possible paths to the available demodulator fingers is detailed in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},"The diversity optimization algorithm  begins at step . Control flow proceeds to step .","In step , a standard finger assignment is made according to signal strength and cell diversity. If all of the cells in the active set are not represented in the assignment, the weakest signal path from a cell with multiple finger assignments is de-assigned and replaced with the strongest signal path of an un-represented cell until cell diversity is achieved. In the exemplary embodiment, four signal paths are assigned to four demodulator fingers. Control flow proceeds to step .","In step , the standard assignment of step  is inspected for receive chain diversity. Control flow proceeds to step .","In step , if all diversity receive chains were found to be represented by the demodulator finger assignment of step , both cell diversity from step  and receive chain diversity have been achieved. Control flow proceeds to step , ending the process. Otherwise, receive chain diversity has not been achieved and control flow proceeds to step  in order to ensure receive chain diversity.","In step , the strongest signal path received by the un-represented receive chain is identified from the set of possible paths. Control flow proceeds to step .","In step , the signal paths from the un-represented receive chain are inspected to determine whether at least one of the paths has sufficient signal strength for demodulation. If no signal of sufficient strength is present, control flow proceeds to step  ending the process. If a signal of sufficient strength is found, control flow proceeds to step .","In step , a demodulator finger is identified to be re-assigned with the strongest signal path of the un-represented receive chain identified in step  without disturbing the cell diversity of step . The finger having the weakest signal path that either originates from the same cell as the strongest signal path received by the un-represented receive chain identified in step , or a finger having a signal path originating from a cell having more than one demodulator finger assignment is identified for re-assignment. Control flow proceeds to step .","In step , if a demodulator finger for re-assignment was successfully identified, control flow proceeds to step . Otherwise, control flow proceeds to step .","In step , the signal path of the demodulator finger identified for re-assignment in step  is de-assigned. Control flow proceeds to step .","In step , the strongest signal path received by the un-represented receive chain identified in step  is assigned to the demodulator finger identified for re-assignment in step . Control flow proceeds to step  ending the process.","Control flow reaches step  if, in step , a demodulator finger could not successfully be identified for re-assignment without disturbing the cell diversity of step . Step  determines whether the number of cells assigned to demodulator fingers is greater than the number of power control combiners provided by the diversity receiver architecture.","In a CDMA communications system, all of the base stations in communication with a mobile unit send Up\/Down power command to the mobile station. The mobile station employs OR of down power control logic, reducing transmit power, if any, one of the base stations command reduced power. In order to process the power control commands, the mobile station must have a demodulator finger assigned to the commanding base station and a power control combiner to process the power control command signals. In an exemplary embodiment, a receiver architecture supports three power control combiners and four demodulator fingers. In such an embodiment of receiver architecture, the cell diversity can only be preserved to three cells. In other words, the cell diversity is limited by the number of power control combiners the architecture supports because there is no purpose in preserving cell diversity to more than the number of available power control combiners. If all the four demodulator fingers are assigned signal paths from different cells, one must be eliminated because power control commands cannot be combined from all four cells with only three power control combiners.","If the number of assigned cells is not greater than the number of power control combiners, control flow proceeds to step  ending the process. If the number of assigned cells is greater than the number of power control combiners, control flow proceeds to step .","In step , the weakest signal assigned to a demodulator finger is identified and control flow proceeds to step  where the signal path is de-assigned.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","502","504","506","508","504","506","504","506"]},"The control processor  is connected to diversity receiver  and a memory  having code or instructions directing the control processor  to maximize reception of multi-path signals by emphasizing the diversity of receive chains using optimal search and demodulator finger assignment operations for diversity receivers. The memory  may include RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium or computer readable media known in the art.","In an exemplary embodiment, the control processor  executes instructions stored in memory  according to the steps of  to make a demodulator finger assignment according to signal strength and cell diversity. The control processor  then executes instructions stored in memory  to re-assign signal paths to achieve receive chain diversity if necessary. Control processor  may execute instructions stored in memory  to consider the availability of power control combiners  when making demodulator finger assignments depending on the architecture of diversity receiver .","Thus, a novel and improved method and apparatus for diversity searching and demodulator finger assignment in a wireless communication system have been described. Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example, data, instructions, commands, information, signals, bits, symbols, and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.","Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.","The various illustrative logical blocks, modules, and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.","The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers, hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage medium. In the alternative, the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a receiver unit. In the alternative, the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.","It should be understood that the disclosed embodiments described in the context of CDMA phones are applicable to other types of communications systems and modulation techniques, such as Personal Communications Systems (PCS), wireless local loop (WLL), private branch exchange (PBX), or other known systems. Furthermore, systems utilizing other well known transmission modulation schemes such as TDMA and FDMA as well as other spread spectrum systems may employ the disclosed embodiments.","The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
