---
title: Method of providing a financial event identification service
abstract: A method of providing a financial event identification service using a database of fundamental event data or technical event data comprises: receiving a request for fundamental event data or technical event data from a from a client application; querying the database based on the request and client application specific selection criteria to obtain suitable fundamental event data or technical event data; and transmitting the fundamental event data or technical event data to the client application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07469226&OS=07469226&RS=07469226
owner: Recognia Incorporated
number: 07469226
owner_city: Ottawa, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20021211
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["The present application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60\/338,645, filed Dec. 11, 2001.","The present invention relates to financial analysis and particularly to providing a technical event identification service.","Fundamental analysis and technical analysis are two generally accepted disciplines of financial Analysis that are used to make trading and investment decisions about publicly traded companies. Fundamental analysis considers the company, its management, marketing activities, sales prospects, supply and demand and other economic factors to estimate the value of the company. This estimate is compared to the company's current stock price on the public markets to determine whether a trade or investment should be made. Technical analysis, on the other hand, only considers the price and volume history of the company and places less emphasis on accounting and economic factors. The historical price and volume behaviour is used to make an assessment of the most likely price in the future. This discipline originated with Charles Dow in the late 1800's and early 1900's.","Both analysis techniques are largely manual due to the subjective nature of the interpretation of the data. The underlying data itself may be factual, for example, an income statement or price charts, yet different people often interpret that data in vastly different ways.","A number of terms of art are used in the present specification. An inbound trend is a series of higher highs or lower lows that lead into a price pattern. An indicator is a calculation based on stock price and\/or volume that produces a number in the same unit as price. An example of an indicator is the moving average of a stock price. An oscillator is a calculation based on stock price and\/or volume that produces a number within a range. An example of an oscillator is the Relative Strength Index (RSI). A price chart is a graph of a company's share price (Y-axis) plotted against units of time (X-axis).","The terms technical event, and fundamental event are coined terms to denote points such as the price crossing the moving average or the RSI crossing threshold values such as the 30-line or the 70-line. The technical event or fundamental event occurs at a specific point in time. The importance of most indicators and most oscillators can be represented as technical events. A technical event, as used herein, is the point in time where a stock price has interacted (e.g. crossed or bounced) with an indicator or confirmed a price pattern, e.g. by breaking the neckline of a head and shoulder pattern, or an oscillator has crossed a threshold. There are other techniques that technical analysts use to interpret price history as well that can be represented as technical events. These, however, are more subjective and involve the subjective recognition of price formations or price patterns. Fundamental events are the point in time where a stock price has interacted (e.g. crossed or bounced) with a price value computed from company accounting and\/or other economic data. The expression financial event includes both fundamental events and technical events. The expression technical event data refers to technical events and associated characteristics. Similarly, the expressions financial event data and fundamental event data refer to financial events and associated characteristics and fundamental events and associated characteristics, respectively.","A price formation, price pattern or chart pattern is a pattern that indicates changes in the supply and demand for a stock cause prices to rise and fall. Over periods of time, these changes often cause visual patterns to appear in price charts. Predictable price movements often occur following price patterns. A reversal pattern is a type of price pattern that is believed to indicate a change in the direction of a price trend. If prices are trending down then a reversal pattern will be bullish since its appearance is believed to indicate prices will move higher. Examples of bullish reversal patterns include double bottoms and head and shoulder bottoms. Similarly, if prices are trending up then a reversal pattern will be bearish. Examples of bearish reversal patterns include double tops and head and shoulder tops. Data fusion is a process by which a conclusion can be inferred from multiple, diverse data sources.","The present invention applies to both the fundamental and technical methods of analysis but the system is described here in detail for technical analysis. Technical analysts, or technicians, place significant value on price charts. Over the years technicians have developed various calculations that aid in their interpretation of the price behaviour that is shown on price charts. For example, they will often look at where a stock's price is relative to its 10-day or 50-day moving average. The choice of using 10 days or 50 days, or other periods, for the basis of the moving average is personal and influenced by whether they are considering long-term or short-term trades. The following table illustrates how a 10-day moving average is calculated\u2014it is the sum of the last 10 prices divided by 10. A 50-day moving average would be the sum of the last 50 prices divided by 50.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"10-Day Moving Averages"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Sum of Last 10","10-Day Moving"]},{"entry":["Price","Prices","Average of Price"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"63pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"105pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["63.00","653","65.3"]},{"entry":["97.00","590","59.0"]},{"entry":["69.00","528","52.8"]},{"entry":["28.00","511","51.1"]},{"entry":["68.00","490","49.0"]},{"entry":["42.00","518","51.8"]},{"entry":["85.00","566","56.6"]},{"entry":["14.00","483","48.3"]},{"entry":["94.00","547","54.7"]},{"entry":["93.00","465","46.5"]},{"entry":["0.00","388","38.8"]},{"entry":["35.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["52.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["7.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["96.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["90.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["2.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["78.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["12.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":["16.00","n\/a","n\/a"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"In the language of technical analysis, a moving average falls into the class of calculations knows as \u201cindicators\u201d. There are many other types of indicators but they are all calculated from historical prices and volumes. The result of an indicator calculation has the unit of a price.","There is another class of calculation that is used by technical analysts that is known as an oscillator. The result of an oscillator calculation is not a price but rather a number that is constrained to fall within a range such as 0 to 100, or \u22121 to +1 or some other range as may be deemed to be significant by the technician. An example of an oscillator is the RSI oscillator.  shows an example of an RSI oscillator. Note the vertical axis for the RSI ranges from 0 to 100 but only the range 20 to 80 is shown in the figure. The RSI typically generates a buy signal when the price crosses above the 30-line and a sell signal when it crosses below the 70-line.","There are a large number of desktop software applications and websites that cater to technical analysts. The purpose of these tools is to help the technician with the mechanical task of plotting the charts and calculating indicators and oscillators that help them in their interpretation of the price history. For example, the website http:\/\/www.prophet.net is consistently ranked as one of the best websites for technical analysis tools. This site provides several hundred indicators and oscillators that can be drawn on price charts. However, the site does not provide any form of interpretation of the information. Thus, it remains necessary for the technical analyst to review each chart manually to identify charts that are showing events of interest that may identify trading opportunities.","When interpreting a price chart, a technician will often look at where the price is relative to an indicator or where an oscillator is relative to some benchmark. For example, if the price of a security is significantly higher than its moving average Technicians will look for the price to fall back towards the moving average and if the price is significantly lower than the moving average they will look for it to rise up towards the moving average. Of most interest to a technician are charts where the price of a stock has just crossed the moving average. If the price crosses up above the moving average then they will look for the stock price to continue rising. If the price crosses down below the moving average they will look for the price to fall.","Similarly, with a RSI oscillator, for example, Technicians look for securities that have just crossed the 30 or 70 thresholds. If the RSI has just moved up across the 30-line it is said to be a buy signal. If it crosses below the 70-line is it considered a sell signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"Traders that use technical analysis continually scan charts like those shown in  searching for price pattern confirmations and other technical events. However, the pattern-confirmation technique is under-used since trained analysts are able to study only a relatively small number of charts relative to the number of securities and commodities trading. It is quite impossible for technical analysts to monitor all intra-day price movements to identify price patterns forming over periods of minutes or hours in all the stocks that are trading. The best technical trading opportunities are achieved by combining the technical events that arise from the identification of price patterns with the technical events that arise from indicators and oscillators. The technique can be improved by combining it with fundamental events derived from analysis of fundamental accounting and economic data. The ability to combine these events together has not been possible because it has not been possible to automatically identify, characterize and annotate the price patterns.","The poor quality of prior art recognition services, and their inability identify the inbound trend and characterize a pattern has made it impossible to produce valid technical events for patterns. Attempts have been made to automate the identification of price patterns but they have not been successful for several reasons:\n\n","It is, therefore, desirable to provide automated detection of technical and fundamental events to enable a system to emulate a full-service brokerage model, which uses human brokers to contact investors to promote trading and offer investment advice and guidance. In the full-service brokerage model, human analysts generate buy\/sell recommendations and the brokers then contact customers and advise them to enter and exit positions as appropriate. Distributing technical and fundamental event data over the Internet to sites that serve end-user investors and traders can fulfill the same objective as human brokers in notifying customers to trading opportunities. The signals derived from technical and fundamental events will grow in sophistication over time and, with knowledge of an individual investors portfolio and trading styles, signals can be tailored to provide trading advice and guidance. Existing publicly available price charting technology distributed over a network exists in rudimentary form. However, a significant drawback of such systems is that they do not reliably recognize patterns. Furthermore, they do not identify technical events based on those patterns. It is desirable to improve the selection of signals to distinguish \u201ctradable information\u201d over noise. It is also desirable to automate tedious analytical tasks associated with technical analysis commonly performed manually and provide these results to many clients over a distributed network.","It is an object of the present invention to obviate or mitigate at least one disadvantage of previous methods associated with known methods of providing technical event information.","In a first aspect, the present invention provides A method of providing a financial event identification service using a database of financial event data comprising: making available to a client a subset of the financial event data based on a client profile; receiving a request from a client for financial event data; formulating the request as a query against the subset to obtain financial event data results; and transmitting the financial event data results to the client. The client can be a financial service provider, or an end user. Data fusion can be used to formulate the data. The financial data results are typically provided in a format suitable for transmission to the client, such as HTML, XML and SOAP.","The present invention also provides a system of for providing a financial event identification service using a database of financial event data comprising: means for making available to a client a subset of the financial event data based on a client profile; means for receiving a request from a client for financial event data; means for formulating the request as a query against the subset to obtain financial event data results; and means for transmitting the financial event data results to the client.","In a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of providing a financial event identification service using a database of financial event data comprising: receiving a request for financial event data from a from a client application; querying the database based on the request and client application specific selection criteria to obtain suitable financial event data results or technical event data results; and transmitting the financial event data results or technical event data results to the client application.","In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method of providing a financial event identification service using a database of financial event data comprising: receiving a request for financial event data from a from a client; querying the database based on the request and client specific selection criteria to obtain suitable financial event data results or technical event data results; and transmitting the financial event data results or technical event data results to the client.","Other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","Generally, the present invention provides a method of and a system for providing a financial event identification service.","Existing charting services are able to show oscillators and indicators and allow users to set alerts based on indicators and oscillators. However, this is of marginal trading value due to expected large numbers of false positive trading signals and resultant amounts of human attention and effort required. For example, a single security can typically generate 10 to 20 (and easily more) alerts each month. By contrast, the present invention is able to greatly reduce the amount of human analysis required to study each alert. In addition, the use of the present invention to require that alerts from one type of technical event be confirmed by one or more different technical events will greatly reduce the number of false positives.","Referring to , an example system of the present invention includes a technical event database . Alternatively, the database can be a financial event database. In an alternative embodiment, the database is a fundamental event database. The database can be the result of a system as illustrated by the example embodiment of . According to an example system , market data  includes, for example, daily stock market information such as high price, low price, open price, close price, volume, open interest and tick data values for stocks. Market data  can be real time data or historical data. Market data  is fed to loosely specified algorithms (LSAs)  which identify candidate patterns for different window sizes that are written into the database  for further analysis. The LSAs  also generates chart markup and annotation. Market data  is also fed to indicator and oscillator calculation engine  and the neural net embedology price forecasting unit  and characterization engine .","The indicator and oscillator calculation engine  computes time series such as simple moving averages and relative strength index (RSI) oscillator values and writes these into the database . The neural net embedology price forecasting module  gives essentially another characteristic of a pattern. The price forecast indicates what the price is to be expected by time interval forward into the future. Embedology price forecasts are also written to the database . Embedology price forecasting produces a series forecast of prices forward in time that are statistically independent of patterns and technical events. This information is compared to the price prediction given by the geometry of the pattern.","The LSAs  are tuned by parameter tuning genetic algorithm . This is a periodic training activity. Genetic algorithms are used to select and weight the various parameters and rules used by the LSAs  to find candidate patterns. Candidate patterns from the LSAs  are also used for human ranking, which is a periodic training activity. Candidate patterns are shown to human experts who then rank this information based on their experience. This information is stored in training module . The information from the training module  is used by the Bayesian regularizer . The Bayesian regularizer  is a training file that is used to periodically update the RBF neural nets . The RBF neural nets  receive candidate patterns from the LSAs  and the RBF neural nets  compute an experiential or consensus rating for each candidate pattern. The experiential rating is equivalent to the rating a human expert would give to the candidate pattern.","The candidate patterns are written to a technical events database . These patterns are also stored for later characterization, retrieval and analysis. Feature selection genetic algorithms  tune the RBF neural nets . This is a training activity that is performed periodically. The indicator and oscillator time series and events are written to database . These are technical analysis calculations that are used to identify technical events. An example of a technical event is a closing price moving above its 200 day moving average. Another example is an RSI moving below 70. RBF neural net ratings are also written to database . This is a number that indicates how a human expert would rate the candidate pattern. The characterization engine  computes various characteristics for every candidate pattern found by the LSAs . The characterization engine  reads candidate patterns, indicators and oscillators from database , computes pattern and event characteristics and write results back to database . An example characteristic is the symmetry number. Symmetry is a measure of the similarity of the two halves of a pattern. For example, with a head and shoulder pattern, the symmetry number tells you how balanced the head is and how similar the left and right shoulders are to each other.","A simple pattern, for example a gap, is a pattern which is can be easily and mechanically recognized based on simple criteria. By contrast, a complex pattern (such as a head and shoulders top formation) is one which requires the use of pattern recognition technology, such as the system  described above.","Accordingly, the technical event database  includes pattern recognition derived technical events, indicator\/oscillator derived technical events, simple pattern technical events and the characteristics or properties of each technical event. Characteristics include primary characteristics such as the length, and height of a complex pattern and the pivot points used to establish the pattern candidate and secondary characteristics (derived from the primary characteristics) such as symmetry and experiential rating.","In the present example, the system including the database is maintained by a financial content provider. Clients of the financial content provider can be a direct consumer of its services such as a brokerage firm or retail investor. Alternatively, the client can be a financial service provider or other intermediary which receives data and related information from the financial service provider and provides this information directly or in a modified form to its clients, typically consumers or end users.","Referring to , clients accesses data from the database  using an internet, such as the Internet . On the client side, each client has a client application , , ,  which communicates through the Internet  with a server side application programming interface (API)  for retrieving data from or querying the database  through a segmentation engine . Segmentation engine  uses client profiles database  and data fusion algorithms to dynamically identify additional relevant supporting financial events or eliminate irrelevant financial events or otherwise modify the results of the query.","The client application receives requests from users and translates the request to database queries through the API. The results are received by the client application and then formatted and transmitted to the user. The format of the response is formatted, for example into Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) so that it can be interpreted by the user's graphical user interface. The effect is that the user is able to query the database to access a rich source of data enabling the user to identify potential tradable information with confidence.","Referring to , it is desirable to provide different users with suitable information. For example, a professional trader may not wish to receive obvious data relating to obvious patterns which may be considered to be too trivial. Alternatively, the professional trader can suppress receiving information that does not match the trader's investment style. For example, if the trader focuses on trades within a short time frame then trading opportunities having a longer time frame are unsuitable. By contrast, a retail trader may prefer to invest based on a longer time frame and may prefer to trade based on patterns which are clearer. For example, the retail trader may prefer only to rely on pattern candidates having high symmetry or a relatively flat neckline in a head and shoulders formation.","Another important aspect is the regulatory requirement that trading signals not be given to retail traders whereas professional traders can be very interested in a strong trading signal (consisting of a stock, a price movement and a confidence rating). To that end, clients can use different client applications depending on the features and information they wish to use. In the example of , four different clients are represented, each client having a different client application , , , .","More importantly, the segmentation engine  is used to present suitable data to each client based on information stored in the client profiles database  and data fusion algorithms that dynamically identify additional relevant supporting financial events or eliminate irrelevant financial events or otherwise modify the results of the query. Reference  denotes all of the data available in the database or all of the data available regarding a particular type of query. The segmentation engine is used to selectively make subsets of the data available to each client application in responding to user requests. For example, the professional application  only sees data , a subset of data . Accordingly, all requests will be based on this subset. For example, if a professional trader were interested only in asymmetrical complex patterns (represented by ) then all other complex patterns would not be presented. Similarly, a retail client will be presented a different subset  of data  which the retail application  will manipulate or analyze. Note that there is no predetermined relationship between data  and data . They can be overlapping (having some common data), disjoint or one can be a subset of the other.","The use of client applications allows custom delivery or presentation of suitable or relevant information. However, another aspect of the present invention is illustrated by the example of the specialized proprietary application  which uses data held external the system . Segmentation engine  uses a corresponding entry in client profile database  and data fusion algorithms to only present to specialized proprietary application  the data . (External) data  also available to specialized proprietary application  so that specialized proprietary application  operates on the union of these two sets which is illustrated as data .","Referring to , the system can be conceptually represented by individual virtual data structures  corresponding to each client. To each client, the API  appears to be interacting with the client's corresponding virtual data structure  rather than the actual database .","Referring to , the relation between client applications and the client profile database is illustrated in greater detail. In the client profiles database client  has a profile which specifies that quantities x and y must satisfy: x>7 and y<5. Similarly client  has a profile which specifies that x<6 and z>9. At the client application level, a request is made, for example by user , for data satisfying the conditions a>10 and c<5. At the segmentation engine  or module, this translates to the request for data from database  satisfying the criterion: a>10 and c<5 and x>7 and y<5. Similarly, a request by user  for data satisfying b<7 and c>2 results in the segmentation engine querying database  for data satisfying the criterion: b<7 and c>2 and x<6 and z>9.","The availability of technical and fundamental events in database  facilitates functionality and provides advantages based on coincident financial events.  illustrates a head and shoulders top formation having pattern neckline . A technical event  occurs when the formation  crosses the neckline . Specifically, the price closes below the neckline which confirms the head and shoulders top formation. In a conventional system, the chart is available, however, the critical identification of technical event  is not made.  is a chart illustrating 200 day moving average . Standard high, low, open close price bars  are also shown. Technical event  occurs when the price crosses below the 200 day moving average.  illustrates a series of price bars forming a gap pattern with the technical event  occurring when the price gaps down. Although each of these fundamental and technical events can be of interest to an investor, it is identification of the coincidence of these financial events that is especially valuable. The present system is able to identify and display such events, for example, by the user of a superposition of charts as illustrated in . The area of interest  is illustrated in detail in  in which it is clear that technical events ,  and  coincide in the vicinity where the edge of right shoulder  meets pattern neckline .","Such coincidences or correspondences can be easily found by a request made to the database  specifying that technical events occur at the same time T. The availability of different technical events also improves the quality of search for useful or \u201ctradable information\u201d, especially when the tedious aspects of searching and technical analysis can be automated. For example, if a complex pattern or formation has taken 60 days to form then it is more appropriate to examine a 100 day moving average than a five day moving average. The client application of the present invention can suggest and implement suitable companion charts and search for confirmatory technical; events. In addition, the geometry of the pattern indicates price targets which also influence the selection of indicator and oscillator derived technical events.","The use of different client side applications corresponding to each client allows true customization by modifying the application. By contrast, in a conventional system, the same information is presented to all clients with, at best, rudimentary modification of a limited number of features available, for example, by selection from a menu of choices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1300","420","1306","1308","1310","1304","1302","1308","1312","1314","1320","1318","1316"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIG. 13","FIG. 14"],"b":["1304","1318","508","1400","420","1308","420","508","1320","1316"]},"Client applications according to the present invention can be deployed over the Internet to financially oriented web sites and online brokers and internally within trading institutions. Users  interact with the applications through web sites operated by financial content providers who private label the applications, thus adding content value to their site with minimal cost and effort.","The present invention is capable of a product offering richer than traditional services and tools since it enables pattern annotations. By contrast, a neural net only approach is limited because the basic characteristics and pivot points of the patterns are not known. This richer pattern recognition functionality enables financial services providers to better tailor the presentation of its offering to the sophistication of its users.","The offering of private-label financial event analytics is unique to the present invention. The present invention allows a deeper and more sophisticated functionality and a deployment model that can simultaneously serve large numbers of sites.","The present invention allows the automation of chart pattern recognition, and more broadly technical and fundamental event recognition, in such a way that it could be deployed by any financial site on the Internet. Automated technical event recognition is a very desirable tool of interest to virtually all financially oriented web sites however, its development involves complex mathematical and computing techniques and requires significant domain knowledge and expertise. Most of these resources lie outside the scope of the average online site's expertise and day-to-day operations.","An aspect of the present invention is a substantial historical database of information relating to the behaviour of technical events in the financial markets. This database allows researchers and serious investors to study chart behaviour in a manner that has previously been unavailable. The database also provides historical context and past performance information to facilitate improved chart pattern recognition and access to related information.","The pattern recognition and forecasting technology is being used to scan data feeds from all the North American stock and commodities exchanges and to detect technical events. The recognition engine uses a number of substantially statistically independent techniques that are fused to provide a series of ratings for each pattern. The technical events, their ratings and specific characteristics are stored in suitable data structures such as an IBM DB2 database.","The application and the database can be accessed using a sophisticated web-based XML API. The variation of calls and their complexity are almost endless. The API can return data in XML (including, for example, RSS, ICE and SOAP) and HTML formats. These formats provide flexibility and allow multiple uses of the information.","Furthermore, an analysis of the patterns in the pattern database suggests there are other measures that are more important in selecting profitable pattern trading opportunities. The flexible search and sort delivery mechanisms of the present invention will allow users to \u201cpull\u201d, or to search for and select, patterns based on the criteria they deem important. This is in contrast to the \u201cone size fits all\u201d approach where fixed delivery mechanisms are \u201cpushed\u201d to the user.","The pattern database of the present invention typically contains millions of patterns that can be used for real time analysis, and research and development of trading strategies. This is in contrast to conventional offerings available at existing financial web sites which offer a limited selection of current patterns but do not allow users to perform analysis based on historical data.","The present invention permits the promotion of a database of trading patterns and the promotion of its use as an investment research tool. This information has not previously been available because the ability to automatically monitor all securities and exchanges for technical and fundamental events has not existed.","As an example of the value of this data, preliminary analysis indicates that a leading indicator of market performance can be computed by simply considering the ratio of the number of top patterns versus the number of bottom patterns. This computed value potentially leads the market. This is referred to as the Recognia Index. In addition, the use of technology to characterize the individual patterns to a level that has not been previously attempted enables financial content providers to enjoy back testing services for patterns thus estimating the profit potential and risk associated with each.","Referring to , according to a method of the present invention, a hosted application is licensed by a financial content receiver or financial service provider who can label it to suit its business. We refer to this as private-label branding. In older technologies, this model would be analogous to an OEM model where the licensed technology is embedded in the customer's product offering. This means that the task of pulling in users and maintaining a web site generally falls on the financial content receiver's shoulders rather than the financial content provider's. Yet at the same time, brand awareness of the financial content provider's technology is promoted. Effectively, the financial content provider and the financial content receiver such as a financial service provider, out-source and leverage each other's strengths. This allows financial service providers to focus on their core competency and allows the financial content provider to focus on research and technology development.","Accordingly, the financial content provider accesses historical and real time market data, including for example intraday, end-of-day, weekly and monthly data, for analysis thereof for recognition of chart patterns and other technical and fundamental events. These results are provided to a financial content receiver such as a financial services provider for modification and re-labelling so that the financial services provider's users will find the information useful. The financial content provider and the financial services provider can also be responsive to downstream requests and preferences and modify the information transmitted according. It is also contemplated within the scope of the present invention to target the wireless market as consumers move into this arena. The task of implementing and promoting the wireless service again lies with customers\u2014the financial content provider simply provides the material that helps draw users to their sites.","Referring to the Figures, a method of providing a technical event identification service comprises:\n\n","Another method of providing a financial event identification service comprises:\n\n","The above-described embodiments of the present invention are intended to be examples only. Alterations, modifications and variations may be effected to the particular embodiments by those of skill in the art without departing from the scope of the invention, which is defined solely by the claims appended hereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the attached drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIGS. 8"],"b":["9","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 14"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
