---
title: Distribution of application windows in a computing device display
abstract: A method for distributing windows in a computing device desktop, comprises opening at least one window in the computing device desktop. The method continues with distributing the at least one window in response to a control input such that at least one window is resized and located to fit the desktop such that the icons in the at least one distributed window can be viewed by a user of the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07036089&OS=07036089&RS=07036089
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07036089
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20020423
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention relates generally to computing devices and, more particularly, to graphical user interfaces that run on computing devices.","Computing devices, such as desktop computers, laptops, and handheld computers, personal digital assistants, palm computers, and telephone handsets that incorporate a display, have become progressively easier to use especially due to the wide availability of operating systems that employ graphical user interfaces. These graphical user interfaces make use of metaphorical desktops and file folders that make computing devices increasingly more intuitive to manipulate. By way of the graphical user interface, a user can open files and\/or programs as application windows that enable a drag and drop operation for copying or moving an icon from one application to another.","In a graphical user interface, the term \u201cdrag\u201d refers to moving an icon on a display screen. The icon may represent a computing device file, computing device program, or any other desktop object or image. To drag an icon across a display screen, the user typically selects the icon with a mouse button and moves the mouse while keeping the mouse button depressed. The term \u201cdrag\u201d is also used more generally to refer to any operation in which the mouse button is held down while the mouse is moved. For example, a user might drag the mouse to select a block of text.","Both the WINDOWS\u2122 and MACINTOSH\u2122 operating systems permit numerous application windows to be displayed on the computing device desktop at the same time. As used herein, the term \u201capplication window\u201d (hereinafter referred to simply as a \u201cwindow\u201d) is considered to be a division of a computing device display screen that typically encompasses a rectangular area. In a graphical user interface, windows can be opened, closed, and moved within the screen area. The user can control the size and shape of the windows. Windows can be overlapped, and overlapping windows can be brought to the front (meaning that their entire contents can be viewed by the user) or sent to the back (meaning that one or more windows can obscure a portion of the window from the user).","On occasion, a user may simultaneously display several application windows on a computing device display, thus requiring the user to manipulate the windows so as to be able to view the entire contents of the display. If the user has a large number of files or applications open at one time, it can be difficult to select the windows between which an icon is to be dragged. The user may have to resize and relocate multiple windows in order to accomplish this task.","In addition to the above-identified Figures, an exemplary script file has been included in Appendix A to illustrate the program commands that distribute the last two opened windows using the WINDOWS\u2122 operating system. The execution of the commands of the script file is brought about by the activation of a multimedia key present on many keyboards.","Embodiments of the invention described herein enable a computing device user to quickly distribute a predetermined quantity of windows within a computing device display. In one embodiment, these windows are automatically resized so that each of the resized windows fits within the desktop display area without overlapping any of the other opened windows. This enables the computing device user to view all of the icons within the window. This also allows all of the icons within a window to be viewed so that icons can be dragged from one window to another.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"Processor  is coupled to memory . Memory  is used by the processor to store data for display as well as data being processed by processor . Memory  can include semiconductor memory such as random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), or a variety of other memory technologies.","Storage media  is used by processor  to store data for longer-term storage than that provided by memory . Examples of storage media  include floppy disk drives, optical and magnetic disk drives, and other types of non-volatile storage media. Storage media  can be removable or resident within the computing device of .","Processor  is additionally coupled to display  so that information can be displayed to the user of the computing device of . Display  may be a liquid crystal display (LCD), a cathode ray tube (CRT), or may make use of any other display technology. In the embodiment of , processor  runs an operating system that includes a graphical user interface that allows the user to drag icons between applications and within the desktop.","The user of the computing device of  uses input device  to enter data used by processor  in generating desired information under the control of the operating system and\/or an application program. Input device  may be a standard QWERTY-style keyboard with a mouse or trackball, or any other device that supplies inputs to the graphical user interface portion of the operating system running on the computer of .","The computing device of  also includes input\/output ports  to communicate data outside of the computing device. Input\/output ports  can include Universal Serial Bus ports, FIREWIRE ports, serial and parallel ports, or any other type of input\/output port.","The computing device of , which includes processor  memory , input device , and an operating system that includes a graphical user interface are but one embodiment of a device that provides windows in which various applications, such as file management, word processing, and electronic mail, can be executed. In one embodiment, two or more of the open windows' locations and sizes are adjusted so that the two or more windows are sized and displayed simultaneously according to a user-defined list of rules. Embodiments of the invention can be practiced on any computing device that executes the instructions required to accomplish the various embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","215"]},"If the computing device user has opened a file, the opened file is contemplated as being displayed in a window on the computing device desktop. In the embodiment of , the computing device user has opened files corresponding to windows , , and  in a consecutive manner. As the file corresponding to window  has been opened prior to the files corresponding to windows  and , window  appears on the computing device monitor as being on the bottom of or \u201cbelow\u201d open windows  and . Since the file corresponding to window  was opened second, this window is located on top of window  but below window . Finally, the file corresponding to window  was opened last and is therefore on top of windows  and . As illustrated in , in the event that the user wishes to move files from an obscured portion of window  to window , the user must first uncover the file from the obscured portion of window .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["205","210","205","210","205","210"]},"In an example that accords with the embodiment of , the user of the computing device may wish to display a first window that shows the \u201cInbox\u201d of an electronic mail program as well as displaying a second window that shows a word processing document currently being viewed by the user. In this example, the user has specified to the operating system that the last two windows opened (i.e. the Inbox of the electronic mail program and the word processing program) are to be distributed in a side-by-side manner, as shown in .","In this example, a configuration file accessible to the operating system (such as the script file listed in Appendix A herein) can be used to inform the operating system of the user-defined rules of the distribution of the two windows. These rules can include whether the windows are to be distributed vertically, horizontally, or according to another arrangement. These rules can also include the distribution of the windows in connection with another window, such as placing the word processing application window to the left of the Inbox of the electronic mail program. These rules can also include whether each window occupies an equal amount of screen area or whether a first window is to occupy more screen area than a second window. Further, these rules can include how the distribution of the windows is invoked, such as by way of assigning a function key (such as F1 through F12 on a standard keyboard, or a \u201cmultimedia\u201d button used to activate particular computer programs such as mail, web browsing, and so forth) to bring about the distribution of the windows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["205","210","205","210","205","210"]},"The invention is not limited to performing the distribution operation on only the last two opened windows. Another embodiment of the invention, such as the embodiment of , distributes another number of windows (such as 1, 3, 4, or more) according to a user-defined set of rules in a preferences or configuration data file accessed by the computing device. The distribution may be accomplished horizontally (i.e. one atop the other), vertically (i.e. side by side), in the corners of the display area, or according to another arrangement. In the case of a single window, the single windows may be resized so as to substantially fill the entire desktop of the computing device.","While the embodiments illustrated in  show the windows expanding to fill the entire desktop, alternate embodiments of the invention may bring about the expansion of the windows by an amount just sufficient to eliminate overlapping a first window onto a second. Such an embodiment may therefore leave underlying portions of the desktop visible to the user, thus allowing access to the underlying desktop as well as to the distributed windows.","It is contemplated that any number or combination of user inputs can be used to bring about the distribution of windows on the display of a given computing device according the key assignments made in a configuration or preferences file. Thus, for example, activation of the F1 key can be used to invoke the vertical distribution of a word processing program and an Inbox of an electronic mail program, each covering 50 percent of the display area, with the word processing window being located to the right of the Inbox. An exemplary second configuration, invoked by activation of the F2 key, can be used to bring about the display of a word processing program, Inbox, and an Internet browser covering 40 percent, 40 percent, and 20 percent of the screen area, respectively. Other inputs, such as other function keys, combinations of keys, multimedia keys that activate particular computer programs, or inputs from a mouse or trackpad can also be used to bring about the distribution of windows on the display of a given computing device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1","FIG. 5"],"b":["400","401","402","405"]},"At step  a user-defined list of applications is evaluated to determine if all of the applications on the user-defined list are currently opened. The user-defined list evaluated in step  can be located in a configuration or preferences file accessible to the operating system. The user-defined list evaluated in step  may include as few as one application or may include as many as five or more applications. At step , a decision is made as to whether there are applications that need to be opened, thus allowing for the possibility that the user-defined list includes application programs that are not currently open on the desktop. If all of the applications on the user-defined list are opened, the method continues at step . If there are applications on the user-defined list that are not currently opened, these applications are launched, in step .","At step , the operating system is requested to allow control over the size of a number of the windows. At step , the screen size of the display is read. At step , the windows corresponding to each of the user-defined applications are distributed according to user-defined rules stored in the configuration file, such as the horizontal distribution of  or the vertical distribution of .","In some applications, all of the steps of  may not be necessary. For example, an embodiment of the invention may include only the steps of opening at least one window on the computing device desktop (as in step ) and distributing the at least one window in response to an input (such as the keyboard input of step ). The input of step  causing the computing device to distribute the at least one window such that the at least one window is resized and located to occupy the desktop wherein the area in the at least one distributed window can be viewed by the user of the computing device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 1","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"]},"At step , the method of  begins by accepting inputs from the user to open at least one window on the computing device desktop. The at least one window can correspond to any application program that can be run on the computing device. At step , the computing device receives an input to distribute the window(s) on the desktop. At step , the current order of open windows is determined using any suitable ordering scheme. In one embodiment, the most recently opened window(s), which desirably appears in front of any previously opened windows, is assigned a \u201cZ\u201d order of zero (or Z=0). The next most recently opened window, appearing immediately behind the Z=0 window, is assigned to Z=1. Previously opened windows are assigned successively increasing values of Z, however, only one window (such as the Z=0 window) need be opened in order to for the method of  to be invoked.","At step , the operating system is requested to allow control over the size of the last-one or more opened application windows (Z=0, Z=1, Z=2, and so forth). At step , the screen size of the display is read. At step , the last one or more opened application windows are distributed either horizontally or vertically such that each window occupies a portion of the display area. Step  may include reading a configuration file to determine the area occupied by the distributed windows. Additionally, nothing prevents dividing the screen according to the number of applications present in the configuration file. Thus, three applications listed in the configuration file may result in the automatic distribution of the windows in which each window occupies one-third of the screen area.","The embodiments of  can be stored as a computing device-readable code data file comprising a set of instructions in the memory of the computing device of . In these embodiments, the data file could take the form of a macro program and be executed from memory . In other embodiments, the computing device-readable code data file may be stored on and executed from storage media . In an exemplary embodiment A computing device-readable medium having computer readable instructions causes the computing device to execute the steps of opening windows on a desktop of the computing device display (as in step ), receiving an input to distribute the opened windows (as in step ) on the desktop of the computing device display, requesting an operating system that runs on the computing device to allow control over the opened windows (as in step ), and distributing the opened windows within the computing device display (as in step ).","In some applications, all of the steps of  may not be necessary. For example, an embodiment of the invention may include only the steps of opening a window on the desktop of the computing device display (as in step ), requesting an operating system to allow control the opened window (as in step ) distributing the opened window within the computing device display (as in step ).","The methods of  may be accessed and executed so as to automatically adjust window sizes as described herein by the computing device user depressing a select key on the keyboard as a control input, such as by way of function keys (F1\u2013F12), or multimedia keys. However, nothing prevents the keyboard input being the depression of a series or combination of control key inputs such as either the sequential or simultaneous depression of the \u201cctrl\u201d, \u201calt\u201d, and \u201cpgdn\u201d keys to invoke one of the embodiments of the invention.","Appendix A is an exemplary Visual Basic\u2122 script file that lists the program commands used to distribute (\u201ctile\u201d as used in the file) the last two opened windows using the WINDOWS\u2122 operating system. The execution of the commands of the script file is brought about by the activation of a multimedia key present on many keyboards. However, the program can be modified to distribute a lesser or a greater number of opened windows. Additionally, the execution of the script file can be brought about by the activation of another multimedia key, function key, or by way of any other keyboard input. The script file of Appendix A follows the general logic of .","While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to the foregoing preferred and alternative embodiments, those skilled in the art will understand that many variations may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims. This description of the invention should be understood to include the novel and non-obvious combinations of elements described herein, and claims may be presented in this or a later application to any novel and non-obvious combination of these elements. The foregoing embodiments are illustrative, and no single feature or element is essential to all possible combinations that may be claimed in this or a later application. Where the claims recite \u201ca\u201d or \u201ca first\u201d element of the equivalent thereof, such claims should be understood to include incorporation of one or more such elements, neither requiring nor excluding two or more such elements.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"APPENDIX A"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Attribute VB_Name = \u201cmodDeclares\u201d"},{"entry":"Option Explicit"},{"entry":"Public Type RECT"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Left As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"Top As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"Right As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"Bottom As Long"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"End Type"},{"entry":"Public Type POINTAPI"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"x \u2003\u2003As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"y \u2003\u2003As Long"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"End Type"},{"entry":"Public Type WINDOWPLACEMENT"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Length \u2003\u2003\u2003As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"flags \u2003\u2003\u2003As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"showCmd \u2003\u2003\u2003As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"ptMinPosition \u2003As POINTAPI"]},{"entry":[{},"ptMaxPosition \u2003As POINTAPI"]},{"entry":[{},"rcNormalPosition As RECT"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"End Type"},{"entry":"Public Const SW_SHOWNORMAL = 1"},{"entry":"Public Const SW_SHOWMINIMIZED = 2"},{"entry":"Public Const SW_SHOWMAXIMIZED = 3"},{"entry":"Public Const SW_SHOWNOACTIVATE = 4"},{"entry":"Public Const SW_SHOW = 5"},{"entry":"Public Const WPF_RESTORETOMAXIMIZED = &H2"},{"entry":"Public Const GW_HWNDFIRST = 0"},{"entry":"Public Const GW_HWNDNEXT = 2"},{"entry":"Public Const GW_OWNER = 4"},{"entry":"Public Const HWND_TOP = 0"},{"entry":"Public Const SWP_SHOWWINDOW = &H40"},{"entry":"Public Declare Function EnumWindows Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"(ByVal IpEnumFunc As Long, "]},{"entry":[{},"ByVal IParam As Long) As Long"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetWindowText Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Alias \u201cGetWindowTextA\u201d "]},{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long, "]},{"entry":[{},"ByVal IpString As String, "]},{"entry":[{},"ByVal cch As Long) As Long"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetClassName Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Alias \u201cGetClassNameA\u201d "]},{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long, "]},{"entry":[{},"ByVal IpClassName As String, "]},{"entry":[{},"ByVal nMaxCount As Long) As Long"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetWindowTextLength Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"Alias \u201cGetWindowTextLengthA\u201d (ByVal hWnd As Long) As Long"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function IsWindowVisible Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long) As Long"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetParent Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long) As Long"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function IsWindowEnabled Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long) As Long"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function IsZoomed Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long) As Long"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetWindowPlacement Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long, "]},{"entry":[{},"Ipwndpl As WINDOWPLACEMENT) As Long"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function SetWindowPlacement Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long, "]},{"entry":[{},"Ipwndpl As WINDOWPLACEMENT) As Long"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function BringWindowToTop Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long) As Long"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"Public Declare Function SetForegroundWindow Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"(ByVal hWnd As Long) As Long"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetForegroundWindow Lib \u201cuser32\u201d ( ) As Long"},{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetWindow Lib \u201cuser32\u201d"},{"entry":"(ByVal hWnd As Long, ByVal wCmd As Long) As Long"},{"entry":"Public Declare Function SetWindowPos Lib \u201cuser32\u201d (ByVal"},{"entry":"hWnd As Long, ByVal hWndInsertAfter As Long, ByVal x As Long,"},{"entry":"ByVal y As Long, ByVal cx As Long, ByVal cy As Long, ByVal wFlags"},{"entry":"As Long) As Long"},{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetTopWindow Lib \u201cuser32\u201d (ByVal"},{"entry":"hWnd As Long) As Long"},{"entry":"Public Declare Function GetDesktopWindow Lib \u201cuser32\u201d ( ) As Long"},{"entry":"\u2032 ********** screen coords ****************"},{"entry":"Public Const SPI_GETWORKAREA& = 48"},{"entry":"Public Declare Function SystemParametersInfo Lib \u201cuser32\u201d "}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Alias \u201cSystemParametersInfoA\u201d "]},{"entry":[{},"(ByVal uAction As Long, "]},{"entry":[{},"ByVal uParam As Long, "]},{"entry":[{},"IpvParam As Any, "]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"ByVal fuWinIni As Long) As Long"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Attribute VB_Name = \u201cmodMain\u201d"},{"entry":"Option Explicit"},{"entry":"Private bInUseCmdLine As Boolean"},{"entry":"Private bInShowHelp As Boolean"},{"entry":"Private bInVertical As Boolean"},{"entry":"Private hWndTop As Long"},{"entry":"Private hWndDeskTop As Long"},{"entry":"Private hWnd0 As Long"},{"entry":"Private hWnd1 As Long"},{"entry":"Private hWnd2 As Long"},{"entry":"Private WindowPos As WINDOWPLACEMENT"},{"entry":"Sub Main( )"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Dim strTitle As String"]},{"entry":[{},"Dim strOutput As String"]},{"entry":[{},"Dim midx As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"Dim midy As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"Dim WP As WINDOWPLACEMENT"]},{"entry":[{},"ParseCmd"]},{"entry":[{},"If bInShowHelp Then"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MsgBox \u201cTile usage:\u201d & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"\u201ctile \u2212v \u2003Tile top 2 windows vertically.\u201d & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"\u201ctile \/v \u2003Tile top 2 windows vertically.\u201d & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"\u201ctile \u2212h \u2003Tile top 2 windows horizontally.\u201d & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"\u201ctile \/h \u2003Tile top 2 windows horizontally.\u201d & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"vbCrLf & \u201cAlternatively, you can rename tile.exe to either"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"vtile.exe or htile.exe:\u201d & vbCrLf & "}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u201cvtile \u2003Tile top 2 windows vertically.\u201d & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"\u201chtile \u2003Tile top 2 windows horizontally.\u201d & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"vbCrLf & \u201ctile \/? \u2003This window.\u201d & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"vbCrLf & \u201c(c)2001 Jason Bauer jason_bauer@hp.com\u201d,"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"vbOKOnly, \u201cTile\/VTile\/HTile Help\u201d"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"Else"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"\u2032 get topmost window"]},{"entry":[{},"hWndTop = GetTopWindow(0)"]},{"entry":[{},"GetWindowPlacement hWndTop, WindowPos"]},{"entry":[{},"strTitle = GetWindowTitle(hWndTop)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2032now find topmost user parent window"]},{"entry":[{},"While IsNotAGoodWindow(hWndTop)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"hWndTop = GetWindow(hWndTop, GW_HWNDNEXT)"]},{"entry":[{},"GetWindowPlacement hWndTop, WindowPos"]},{"entry":[{},"strTitle = GetWindowTitle(hWndTop)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Wend"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2032 find next window down"]},{"entry":[{},"hWnd1 = GetWindow(hWndTop, GW_HWNDNEXT)"]},{"entry":[{},"GetWindowPlacement hWnd1, WindowPos"]},{"entry":[{},"strTitle = GetWindowTitle(hWnd1)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2032 now find next user parent window"]},{"entry":[{},"While IsNotAGoodWindow(hWnd1)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"hWnd1 = GetWindow(hWnd1, GW_HWNDNEXT)"]},{"entry":[{},"GetWindowPlacement hWnd1, WindowPos"]},{"entry":[{},"strTitle = GetWindowTitle(hWnd1)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Wend"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2032 get screen coords"]},{"entry":[{},"Dim rc As RECT"]},{"entry":[{},"Dim r As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"r = SystemParametersInfo(SPI_GETWORKAREA, 0&, rc, 0&)"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2032 now, determine whether to tile v or h"]},{"entry":[{},"If Not bInUseCmdLine Then"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"If LCase(App.EXEName) = \u201chtile\u201d Then"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"bInVertical = False"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"ElseIf LCase(App.EXEName) = \u201cvtile\u201d Then"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"bInVertical = True"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"End If"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"End If"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2032if is minimized, then restore it"]},{"entry":[{},"With WP"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},".Length = Len(WP)"]},{"entry":[{},".flags = 0&"]},{"entry":[{},".showCmd = SW_SHOWNORMAL"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"End With"]},{"entry":[{},"SetWindowPlacement hWndTop, WP"]},{"entry":[{},"SetWindowPlacement hWnd1, WP"]},{"entry":[{},"If bInVertical Then"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"midx = rc.Right\/2"]},{"entry":[{},"midy = rc.Bottom"]},{"entry":[{},"SetWindowPos hWndTop, HWND_TOP, rc.Left, rc.Top,"]},{"entry":[{},"midx, midy,"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SWP_SHOWWINDOW"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"SetWindowPos hWnd1, HWND_TOP midx, rc.Top, midx, midy,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SWP_SHOWWINDOW"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"Else"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"midx = rc.Right"]},{"entry":[{},"midy = rc.Bottom\/2"]},{"entry":[{},"SetWindowPos hWndTop, HWND_TOP, rc.Left, rc.Top,"]},{"entry":[{},"midx, midy,"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SWP_SHOWWINDOW"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"SetWindowPos hWnd1, HWND_TOP, rc.Left, midy, midx, midy,"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":"SWP_SHOWWINDOW"}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"End If"]},{"entry":[{},"strOutput = \u201chWndTop:\u201d & hWndTop & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"\u201ctitle:\u201d & GetWindowTitle(hWndTop) & vbCrLf"]},{"entry":[{},"strOutput = strOutput & \u201chWnd1:\u201d & hWnd1 & vbCrLf & "]},{"entry":[{},"\u201ctitle:\u201d & GetWindowTitle(hWnd1)"]},{"entry":[{},"On Error Resume Next"]},{"entry":[{},"Dim f As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"f = FreeFile"]},{"entry":[{},"Open \u201cc:\\tile.log\u201d For Append As #f"]},{"entry":[{},"Print #f, Now"]},{"entry":[{},"Print #f, strOutput"]},{"entry":[{},"Print #f, \u201cDone.\u201d"]},{"entry":[{},"Close #f"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"End If"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2032MsgBox strOutput"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"End Sub"},{"entry":"Private Function GetWindowTitle(hWnd As Long) As String"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Dim sTitle As String"]},{"entry":[{},"Dim nSize As Long"]},{"entry":[{},"sTitle = Space$(255)"]},{"entry":[{},"nSize = GetWindowText(hWnd, sTitle, 255)"]},{"entry":[{},"GetWindowTitle = Left(sTitle, nSize)"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"End Function"},{"entry":"Private Function IsNotAGoodWindow(hWnd As Long) As Boolean"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"IsNotAGoodWindow = IsWindowVisible(hWnd) = False "]},{"entry":[{},"Or GetParent(hWnd) < > 0& "]},{"entry":[{},"Or GetWindowTitle(hWnd) = \u201c \u201d "]},{"entry":[{},"Or GetWindowTitle(hWnd) = \u201ctile\u201d "]},{"entry":[{},"Or InStr(1, GetWindowTitle(hWnd), \u201cMicrosoft Visual Basic\u201d) > 0"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"End Function"},{"entry":"Private Sub ParseCmd( )"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Dim Cmds As Variant"]},{"entry":[{},"Cmds = Split(Command$)"]},{"entry":[{},"bInShowHelp = False"]},{"entry":[{},"bInUseCmdLine = False"]},{"entry":[{},"bInVertical = False"]},{"entry":[{},"If UBound(Cmds) > \u22121 Then"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"If Cmds(0) = \u201c\u2212v\u201d Or "]},{"entry":[{},"Cmds(0) = \u201c\/v\u201d Or "]},{"entry":[{},"Cmds(0) = \u201c\u2212V\u201d Or "]},{"entry":[{},"Cmds(0) = \u201c\/V\u201d Then"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"bInVertical = True"]},{"entry":[{},"bInUseCmdLine = True"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ElseIf Cmds(0) = \u201c\u2212h\u201d Or "]},{"entry":[{},"Cmds(0) = \u201c\/h\u201d Or "]},{"entry":[{},"Cmds(0) = \u201c\u2212H\u201d Or "]},{"entry":[{},"Cmds(0) = \u201c\/H\u201d Then"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"bInVertical = False"]},{"entry":[{},"bInUseCmdLine = True"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"ElseIf Cmds(0) = \u201c\u2212?\u201d Or "]},{"entry":[{},"Cmds(0) = \u201c\/?\u201d Then"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"bInShowHelp = True"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"End If"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"7pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"210pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"End If"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"203pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"End Sub"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
