---
title: Differential pressure sensing system for airfoils usable in turbine engines
abstract: A detection system for identifying airfoils having a cooling systems with orifices that are plugged with contaminants or with showerheads having a portion burned off. The detection system measures pressures at different locations and calculates or measures a differential pressure. The differential pressure may be compared with a known benchmark value to determine whether the differential pressure has changed. Changes in the differential pressure may indicate that one or more of the orifices in a cooling system of an airfoil are plugged or that portions of, or all of, a showerhead has burned off.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06942450&OS=06942450&RS=06942450
owner: Siemens Westinghouse Power Corporation
number: 06942450
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030822
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["Development for this invention was supported in part by U.S. Department of Energy Contract No. DE-FC26-01 NT41232. Accordingly, the United States Government may have certain rights in this invention.","This invention is directed generally to cooling systems for airfoils in turbine engines, and more particularly to systems for identifying blockages in airfoil cooling systems.","Typically, gas turbine engines include a compressor for compressing air, a combustor for mixing the compressed air with fuel and igniting the mixture, and a turbine blade assembly for producing power. Combustors often operate at high temperatures that may exceed 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit. Typical turbine combustor configurations expose airfoils, such as turbine blade and vane assemblies, to these high temperatures. As a result, the airfoils must be made of materials capable of withstanding such high temperatures. In addition, the airfoils often contain cooling systems for prolonging the life of the airfoils and reducing the likelihood of failure as a result of excessive temperatures.","Typically, airfoils are formed from an elongated portion, a leading edge, and a trailing edge. The inner aspects of most airfoils typically contain an intricate maze of cooling channels forming a cooling system. The cooling channels in the airfoils receive air from compressors of turbine engines and pass the air through the airfoils. The cooling channels often include multiple flow paths designed to maintain all aspects of the airfoils below design temperature. However, centrifugal forces and air flow at boundary layers often prevent some areas of the airfoils from being adequately cooled, which results in the formation of localized hot spots. In addition, contaminants in the cooling fluid flowing through the airfoils can clog impingement orifices and film cooling orifices in the airfoils, which can also produce localized hot spots. Localized hot spots, depending on their location, can reduce the useful life of a turbine blade and can damage a turbine blade to an extent necessitating replacement of the blade.","Operating turbine engines having airfoils with plugged impingement cooling orifices or film cooling orifices can result in catastrophic damage to the airfoil or the turbine engine, or both. For instance, airfoils having plugged impingement cooling orifices or film cooling orifices operate at elevated temperatures, which if elevated to too high a temperature can cause failure of the airfoils. During failure of an airfoil, portions of the airfoil break off and strike downstream components of a turbine engine, thereby damaging the airfoil. Thus, a need exists for a system for identifying airfoils in turbine engines having plugged cooling orifices before failure of these airfoils.","This invention relates to a detection system for use in airfoils having internal cooling systems, such as, but not limited to, turbine vanes and blades. The detection system may include a plurality of sensors for determining pressures at different locations throughout the airfoil. These pressure measurements may be used to determine differential pressures between locations. The differential pressures may, in turn, be compared with known benchmark differential pressures to determine whether the airfoil contains plugged impingement orifices, plugged film cooling orifices, or has suffered a loss of a portion of, or all of, a showerhead of the airfoil. The known benchmark differential pressure may be determined using sensors to sense the pressure of cooling fluids, which may originate from a compressor of a turbine engine, at various locations throughout the airfoil while cooling fluids pass through an airfoil containing no obstructions in the cooling orifices. Alternatively, the differential pressures may be determined by measuring the differential pressure when the new vanes or blades are first installed.","In at least one embodiment, the detection system may be used in a turbine vane. For instance, the turbine vane may be formed from a generally elongated hollow vane formed from an outer wall. The turbine vane may include a leading edge, a trailing edge, a first end configured to be coupled to a shroud of a turbine engine, a second end opposite the first end for sealing the turbine vane to a rotatable disc, and one or more cavities forming a cooling system in the hollow vane. The turbine vane may also include one or more impingements inserts in the at least one cavity forming an inner cooling cavity and an outer cooling cavity, whereby the at least one impingement insert includes at least one impingement orifice providing a gas pathway between the inner cooling cavity and the outer cooling cavity. One or more pressure sensors may be included in the detection system for measuring pressure in the inner cooling cavity, and one or more pressure sensors may be included in the detection system for measuring pressure in the outer cooling cavity between the impingement insert and the outer wall of the turbine vane.","The detection system may be configured to be placed in a variety of airfoils having internal cooling systems. In addition, the detection system is not limited to being used only in turbine vanes. However, the detection system is described herein as being installed in a turbine vane for example and not as a limitation. In at least one embodiment, the turbine vane may include a forward cavity, an aft cavity, and a mid cavity. These cavities may include impingement inserts mounted in one or more of the cavities. The detection system may be used to determine whether impingement orifices in the impingement inserts are plugged, whether film cooling orifices in the outer wall forming the vane are plugged, or whether a portion of, or all of, the showerhead has burned off. In addition, the detection system may be used to determine the answers to any combination of these queries. The detection system may also be used to determine one or more of these queries in one or more of the forward, aft and mid cavities of the turbine vane.","For example, the detection system may be used to determine a first pressure in an inner cavity of the turbine vane and a second pressure in an outer cavity between an impingement plate and the outer wall of the turbine vane. A differential pressure may be calculated or measured from the first and second pressures. The differential pressure may then be compared to a known benchmark differential pressure. An increase in differential pressure may indicate that impingement orifices in the impingement insert are plugged. On the other hand, a decrease in differential pressure may indicate that at least some of the film cooling holes are plugged. The orifices may be cleaned to open the plugged orifices and resume safe operation.","The detection system may also be used to determine whether the showerhead of the airfoil has been burned off. For example, the detection system may be used to measure a first pressure in an inner cavity of a turbine vane proximate to a showerhead of the turbine vane and to measure a second pressure at a combustor shell. The differential pressure may be measured and compared against a known benchmark value. Decreases in differential pressure may indicate that portions of or all of the showerhead has burned off.","An advantage of this detection system is that the detection system may be used to indicate when a specific vane is in need of servicing. In addition, the detection system of this invention requires little expense to be installed in airfoils of conventional turbine engines in use today. Furthermore, the detection system reduces the likelihood of catastrophic failure caused by an airfoil disintegrating because of thermal stresses. These and other advantages will become apparent upon review of these and other embodiments are described in more detail below.","As shown in , this invention is directed to a detection system  for use in airfoils  having internal cooling systems , such as, but not limited to, turbine vanes and blades. The detection system  may be formed from a plurality of sensors  for determining pressures at different locations throughout the airfoil . These pressure measurements may be used to determine differential pressures. The differential pressures may be compared with known benchmark differential pressures to determine whether the airfoil  contains plugged impingement orifices , whether the airfoil  contains plugged film cooling orifices , , , and , or has suffered a loss of a portion of a showerhead  of the airfoil . The known benchmark differential pressure may be determined using the sensors  to sense the pressure of fluids at various locations throughout the airfoil  while cooling fluids pass through the airfoil  containing no obstructions. Alternatively, the benchmark differential pressures may be determined when the new vanes and blades are first installed, and thus free of contaminants. The sensors  may also be differential pressure transmitters for measuring differential pressures between at least two different locations.","In at least one embodiment, the detection system  may be adapted to be used in a turbine vane , as shown in . The detection system  is not limited to use with a turbine vane  having the configuration shown in  and described herein. Rather, the detection system  may be used in airfoils , such as turbine blade and other airfoils, having other configurations. However, for discussion purposes, the configuration of the detection system  in the turbine vane  shown in  is described herein. The turbine vane  may be formed from a generally elongated vane  having a leading edge  and a trailing edge . The leading edge  may include a showerhead  having a plurality of orifices  allowing cooling fluids to pass from inner aspects of the cooling system  to an outer surface  of the turbine vane to provide film cooling. The vane  may be adapted to be fixedly coupled to a turbine shroud  at a first end  and positioned proximate to a rotatable disc (not shown) at a second end . The turbine vane  may have an outer wall  adapted for use, for example, in a first stage of an axial flow turbine engine. Outer wall  may have a generally concave shaped portion forming pressure side  and may have a generally convex shaped portion forming suction side .","The cooling system  may include a forward cooling cavity , an aft cooling cavity , and a mid cooling cavity . As shown in , the turbine vane  may include one or more impingement inserts . For instance, the turbine vane  may include a forward impingement insert  positioned in the forward cooling cavity  forming an outer forward cooling cavity  and an inner forward cooling cavity . The turbine vane  may also include an aft impingement insert  positioned in the aft cooling cavity  forming an outer aft cooling cavity  and an inner aft cooling cavity . Still yet, the turbine vane may include a mid impingement insert  positioned in the mid cooling cavity  forming an outer mid cooling cavity  and an inner mid cooling cavity . The impingement inserts  may include a plurality of impingement orifices  for allowing cooling fluids to flow through the impingement inserts  to remove heat from the turbine vane . The forward impingement insert  may include an opening  allowing cooling fluids to pass through the orifices  forming the showerhead .","In another embodiments, the turbine vane  need not have a plurality of cavities forming the cooling system . Instead, the turbine vane  may include an impingement insert  forming an inner cooling cavity  and an outer cooling cavity  from the cooling system .","The detection system  may be configured to be positioned in an airfoil , such as a turbine vane . The detection system  may be configured to sense a pressure in a first location, for instance, in an inner cooling cavity  and sense a pressure in a second location, for instance, in an outer cooling cavity . The pressures identified using the detection system  may be used to calculate a differential pressure between the two locations. The differential pressure may be calculated by a microprocessor, personal computer, or other electronic device, measured by a differential pressure transmitter, or may be calculated by a user or in another manner.","As shown in , the detection system  may be formed from tubing  used to transfer the pressurized fluid to a sensor  to determine the pressure. In at least one embodiment, the detection system  may include tubing  positioned in one or more of the inner cavities , , , or , or any combination thereof, to measure the pressure of a cooling fluid. The tubing  positioned in the inner cavities , , or , may be made of material such as, but not limited to, stainless steel or other such materials. In at least one embodiment, the tubing  may be capable of withstanding operating temperatures of about 430 degrees Celsius. Tubing  may also be positioned in one or more of the outer cavities , , , or , or any combination thereof. The tubing  in the outer cavities , , , or  may be coupled to the impingement inserts  using, for instance, and not by way of limitation, welds, or other connectors. The tubing  may exit the combustion cavities through the inner shroud or the outer shroud (not shown) of the turbine engine. In other embodiments, the tubing  used to measure the pressure in the inner cavities , , , or  may measure the pressure in the combustor shell rather than the pressure in the inner cavities , , , or  because the pressures in the inner cavities , , , or  and the combustor shell are typically very close.","The detection system  may be capable of determining the existence of plugged impingement orifices  in the impingement inserts , , , or , or any combination thereof. Alternatively, or in addition, the detection system  may determine the existence of plugged in film cooling orifices , , , and  in the outer wall  forming the vane . Alternatively, or in addition, the detection system  may determine whether a portion of the showerhead  has burned off. For instance, the detection system  may measure a first pressure in an inner cooling cavity  of the airfoil  and measure a second pressure in an outer cooling cavity  of the airfoil . A differential pressure may be determined between the inner cooling cavity  and the outer cooling cavity  by comparing the first pressure measurement taken in the inner cooling cavity  with the second pressure taken in the outer cooling cavity . The differential pressure may be compared with a known benchmark differential pressure to determine whether impingement orifices  in the impingement insert  or film cooling orifices , , , and  in the outer wall  are plugged or whether the showerhead  has suffered a loss of material.","In the turbine vane shown in , plugging of the impingement orifices  may be identified when the differential pressure measured between a first pressure in the inner forward cooling cavity  and a second pressure in the outer forward cooling cavity  increases, as shown in . The detection system  is capable of measuring an increase of more than one pound per square inch (psi) with less than one percent of the impingement orifices  and  plugged. This process may be repeated in a similar fashion for the aft impingement insert  and the mid impingement insert  to determine whether impingement orifices  in the mid cooling cavity  and the aft cooling cavity  are plugged.","The detection system  may also be used to determine when film cooling orifices , , , and  are plugged. For instance, the detection system  may identify when film cooling orifices  and  are plugged by identifying decreases in differential pressure measured between a first pressure in the inner forward cooling cavity  and a second pressure in the outer forward cooling cavity , as shown in . A differential pressure drop of about 1 psi equals about 10 film cooling orifices  and  plugged per 144 film cooling orifices. This process may be repeated in a similar fashion for the mid impingement insert  to determine whether film cooling orifices  and  in the mid cooling cavity  are plugged. Further, the process may be repeated for the aft impingement insert  to determine whether film cooling orifices in the aft cooling cavity  are plugged.","The detection system  may also be used to determine whether a portion or all of a showerhead  has burned off of the vane  or whether the showerhead  has plugged orifices . In particular, the detection system  may be used to identify decreases in differential pressure measured between a first pressure at an forward cooling cavity  and a second pressure outside of the outer wall  at the showerhead , as shown in . The pressure outside the outer wall  at the showerhead  is not actually measured at this location. Rather, the pressure is measured from the combustor shell. Typically, the pressure at the combustor shell is approximately equal to the pressure found outside the outer wall  at the showerhead . A decrease in differential pressure may indicate that a portion of, or all of, a showerhead  has burned off, and an increase in differential pressure may indicate that at least some of the impingement orifices  are plugged.","The foregoing is provided for purposes of illustrating, explaining, and describing embodiments of this invention. Modifications and adaptations to these embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art and may be made without departing from the scope or spirit of this invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form a part of the specification, illustrate embodiments of the presently disclosed invention and, together with the description, disclose the principles of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["3","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
