---
title: High velocity underwater jet weapon
abstract: An assembly, a system and a method of use for producing a pulsed jet used to carry a high velocity jet of fluid through water. The energy of this jet is to be used as a weapon against undersea targets. The assembly includes a pressure chamber, a manifold, and a nozzle. In use, the pressure chamber is filled with fluid and a pressure is generated within the chamber by injecting and igniting fuel adjacent the fluid thereby forcing the fluid out the nozzle. The forced fluid is directed to create a high velocity jet of fluid. The fuel can be ignited repeatedly to produce follow-on jets, each impacting the preceding high velocity jet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06868790&OS=06868790&RS=06868790
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06868790
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031208
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","(1) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to underwater weapons and more particularly, to directed energy high velocity jets used as an underwater weapon.","(2) Description of the Prior Art","As known in the art, undersea projectiles are considered a weapon to defeat undersea targets. Projectiles (similar to projectile  of FIG. ), have been demonstrated for use. The projectiles are based on standard munitions with explosive cartridges launching the projectiles from a gun. Although the use of projectiles is an effective and low-risk approach for defeating underwater targets, the use presents a number of problems. In a first example, the launch system must be kept dry which further creates technical problems. In a second example of the problems of use, the combustion gasses produced by launch limit the rate of fire of the gun or weapon as these gasses interfere with flight of salvos of the projectiles . In a third example of the problems of use, the projectiles  interfere with each other in flight, further limiting rates of fire. In a final but not exhaustive example of the problems of use, the projectiles  occupy a very small portion of the supercavity  that they generate therefore utilizing a small percentage of the potential benefits of the supercavity .","It has been further demonstrated that forward-directed jets  from moving vehicles  (shown in ) can produce supercavities  in a manner similar to a physical cavitator. As shown in the figure, the jet  advances forward of the vehicle  such that a moving front  is produced. The size and shape of the cavity  are related to the diameter of the forward directed jet  and the advancement speed of the moving front .","Referring again to , the shape of the cavity  is assumed to be elliptical as defined by \n\n\nwhere x is the distance along the axis of the cavity , l is the length of the cavity, r is the radius of the cavity, and R is the maximum radius of the cavity. The exponents are selected using the approximation as m=2 and n=2.4. Two other parameters are required to define the shape of the supercavity : \u03bb(\u03c3) and \u03bc(\u03c3, C). Cis the cavitator drag coefficient based on the cavitator projected area and \u03c3 is the cavitation number defined as: \n\n\nwhere \u03c1 is the fluid density, Pis the ambient pressure, Pis the pressure of the cavity , and U is the speed of the projectile . The first parameter, the ratio of the maximum diameter of the cavity  to cavitator tip diameter ratio is given by: \n\n\nThe second parameter, the slenderness ratio of the cavity , \u00bdR, is given by:\n\n\u03bb=1.067\u03c3\u22120.52\u03c3\n\nThe drag coefficient of a disc cavitator is assumed equal to 0.814. An equivalence is assumed between a jet and a disc. A forward jet cavitator of known cross sectional area will produce a cavity equivalent in size and characteristics to a disc 20.5% of the size.\n","The required forward directed jet velocity can be estimated from energy balance considerations. The rate of work done by the jet front is the product of the drag force of the equivalent disc cavitator multiplied by the speed of advancement of the jet front, e.g.:\n\n\n\nThe energy flux into the jet front as supplied by the high-speed jet is computed relative to the advection speed of the front. This energy is then given by:\n\n\n","Setting these two expressions equal to each other provides a relationship between required jet velocities to sustain a propagating jet front as a function of a few key parameters: \n\n","If the density ratio is assumed equal to 1.0 (water jet into water), the area ratio is assume equal to 0.205, and the drag coefficient is equal to 0.814, the required jet velocity is 1.55 times the front advance speed. If high density jets are considered, the required jet velocity is somewhat lower, 1.28 for a specific gravity of 8.0. The extent of penetration of the jet for a given velocity is improved, but for a specified dynamic head, the penetration is considerably less. Inversely, a light liquid can be fired a range for a specified dynamic head.","Dynamics play an important role in the jet concept. A steady jet from a stationary platform cannot sustain a supercavity. The jet must be pulsed to reap the benefits of supercavitation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["30","1","32","2","30","3","4","30","30","5","30","6","7"],"sub":["jet","f"]},"The geometry of the jet  determines the total water consumed and range of the jet. The total penetration length is the length of the cavity plus the distance the trapped core can drive the front after the cavity closes. This extra length is simply determined as: \n\n","The total volume v of material consumed in forming the jet  is the volume in the core plus the fluid required to drive the front out to one length of the cavity from the nozzle .\n\n\n","In real world applications, high velocity jets are used in industrial systems for cutting operations. Pressures of 380 Mpa (50,000 psi), generated with specialized hydraulic pumps, and are used to generate very small diameter fluid jets with speeds approaching 800 m\/s. These systems are designed for precision continuous cutting. As such, jet diameters are typically very small (no greater than 1 mm). Jet pulses of this size can only penetrate a very short distance (of the order 1 meter) in the water based on the equations described above. Power consumption for significantly larger jets becomes prohibitive if sustained operation is required.","Accordingly, it is a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide a method of producing a long distance fluid jet using a pulsing system in which the jet is also useable as a weapon.","To obtain the object described, the present invention features a system and method for producing a pulsed jet with the pulsed jet preferably used as an underwater weapon. High density materials and particulate laden jet streams enhance the penetration of the pulsed jet and lethal effects by varying the density of the pulsed jet. The use of molten metals further enhances the jet penetration.","The following is a detailed description of the preferred embodiment of the present invention. It will be appreciated that while one embodiment will be described hereinbelow, there are many different embodiments (such as various intake\/discharge valve systems, filling systems, and nozzle systems) that will perform the desired functions. As such, the present application should not be limited to one specific embodiment.","Referring now to , a pulsed jet generating system  is shown. The pulsed jet system  generally comprises a pressure chamber , a nozzle , and a supporting manifold . The pulsed jet system  preferably operates from a submerged platform (not shown) such as a torpedo, submarine, or other unmanned underwater vehicle.","In operation, the pulsed jet system  produces a jet stream  which travels a significant distance (for example, in the range of 5 to 50 m) through the surrounding water  to produce a cavity  with a jet  until the jet strikes a target (not shown) or the jet collapses. The pulsed jet system  is preferably a combustion driven system, though other means of driving the pulsed jet system are possible.","In further description of the operation, the pressure chamber  is filled with a fluid  (preferably water or water with a particulate, discussed in greater detail hereinbelow). A fuel mixture  is injected within the pressure chamber  and adjacent the fluid . The fuel mixture  is ignited to create an intense pressure that drives the fluid  from the pressure chamber  through the nozzle .","If the pressure chamber  is full of low pressure air and all valves for the pressure chamber are closed, the pulsed jet system  begins by opening an intake valve  in the head . The intake valve  reacts by monitoring the pressure within the pressure chamber  and\/or the level of the fluid . The fluid  is forced through the intake manifold  from an accumulator . The accumulator  is continuously fed by a pump  that draws the fluid  through an intake  from the surrounding water . The accumulator  may also contain a limited supply of the fluid  which is not automatically refilled in situations where the pulsed jet system  will be operating for short time periods.","While the present invention has heretofore been described wherein the working fluid  is water, any other fluid, including liquids metals, combustible or reactive materials and particulate laden fluids can be used. The pulsed jet system  may also contain a tank  containing a particulate  (such as sand) which may be added to the liquid or fluid  in order to increase or decrease the density of the jet stream .","When the pressure chamber , connected to the head  with fasteners , is fully charged with the fluid , the intake valve  is closed. A fuel injection valve  is then opened such that fuel and air are injected through the fuel intake manifold  into as a combustion volume. Any material, such as but not limited to, liquid propellants, explosive capsules, combustible gas, etc., capable of producing pressure within the pressure chamber  may also be used. During the injection of the fuel, the fluid  is free to escape from the nozzle .","When the pressure chamber  is fully charged with fuel, the fuel injection valve  is closed and the fuel\/air mixture is ignited by an igniter (not shown). A rapid rise in pressure within the pressure chamber  forces the fluid  from the pressure chamber through the nozzle  to form the supercavitating jet . Optimal performance is obtained when the combustion rate of the fuel is controlled so that a constant pressure in the combustion chamber  is maintained resulting in a constant velocity for the jet  during repetition of the operation for pulsation.","When the pressure chamber  is almost emptied (or the pressure within the pressure chamber drops below a threshold value), a power-take-off valve  is opened allowing the compressed gases to flow through a power take-off manifold  into a secondary pressure vessel . Alternatively, the combustion gasses may simply be vented to the surrounding water . These combustion gases can alternatively be supplied to a gas turbine  which in-turn drives the pump .","Prior to opening the intake valve  to begin the cycle again for the pulsed jet system , the power take-off valve  is closed and a chamber vent valve  is opened allowing the remaining pressurized gases to escape through the vent manifold  to the surrounding water . The power take-off valve  is preferably controlled by monitoring the pressure within the pressure chamber  as well as the level of the fluid . This cycle is repeated for each jet . The individual components are sized to achieve the desired firing rates, jet size, and extent of penetration and are within the knowledge of one of ordinary skill in the art.","The head  may include one or more cams (not shown) to control the opening and closing of the various valves. Alternatively, the pulsed jet  may monitor the pressure chamber  pressures and fluid levels to control the opening and closing of the valves associated with the pressure chamber.","In light of the above, it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be better understood in view of the following description of the invention taken together with the drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00029","num":"00029"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00030","num":"00030"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00031","num":"00031"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00032","num":"00032"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
