---
title: Systems and methods for creating a single electronic scanned job from multiple scanned documents
abstract: This invention provides systems and methods that use a meta job description that combines a number of scan jobs into a single combined job and use a meta job description that incorporates the scan parameters for a plurality of scan. Scanning documents with a meta job description provides user with the ability to scan any number of different documents with different parameters and combine them into a single combined job before the job is sent to its final destination. This allows the user to compose a single electronic document from any number of documents with different parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07443548&OS=07443548&RS=07443548
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 07443548
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030131
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of Invention","The invention is directed to document capture and analysis.","2. Description of Related Art","Conventionally, when a page is scanned by a device, the resulting electronic image file is forwarded to its intended destination. The electronic image file can be stored, sent off as email, or stored as a desktop icon on a computer. However, a job can require that one or more additional pages need to be scanned as part of that single job. If any one of these pages has one or more different scanning parameters, such as, for example, a different image resolution, a different page size, and\/or a different format, the set of two or more pages to be scanned with two or more different sets of parameters cannot be treated as a single job.","In general, these pages cannot be treated as a single job because there is nothing to tie together the two scanned jobs. Users wishing to have the images treated as a single job must either merge the scanned files manually, using third party software, or cannot merge the scanned files at all, making it difficult to have multiple scanned sections concatenated into a single job.","This invention provides systems and methods that use a meta job description that combines a number of scan jobs into a single combined job.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for creating a meta job description that incorporates the scan parameters for a plurality of scan jobs.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for scanning a set of documents using a set of parameters specific to that set of documents and appending that set of documents to a file containing scanned documents that have at least one different set of parameters.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for scanning a different sections of documents with different parameters and appending them into combined jobs.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for creating and changing a meta job description of the job performed.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for changing the meta job description as the job is performed.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for creating a single combined job that is larger than a capacity of the input device.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for directing a single combined job or components to a destination.","In various exemplary embodiments, an image is obtained, generated or stored. The image can be from an original physical document or one generated in the past. In various exemplary embodiments, the general data flow between components of the system are controlled. In various exemplary embodiments, data is received, sent or stored. In various exemplary embodiments, data and control commands are inputted into the system.","In various exemplary embodiments, a captured image is combined with one or more other scan jobs into a single combined job. In various exemplary embodiments, it is determined whether an image can be combined into an existing image or if several images can be combined. It is also determined whether one or more additional pages needs to be scanned as part of integrating a scan job. Further, it is determined whether any one of the images has one or more different scanning parameters. In various exemplary embodiments, the image is adjusted according to one or more different scanning parameters. In various exemplary embodiments, a properly adjusted image is combined with other scanned images into a single scanning job.","In various exemplary embodiments, a desired operation of obtaining, sending or integrating the scan jobs are selected. The selection can be a default operation or a selected operation. In various exemplary embodiments, a desired destination for the images is selected. The destination selected can be a default destination or a desired destination.","These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or are apparent from, the following detailed description of various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","200","300","400","500","110"]},"The image scanning system  can be any source that can obtain, generate, or store an image, including a digital camera, a scanner, a digital copier, a file system, a Document Management\/Content Management system, including those that are Web based, or any other known or later-developed device that is capable of capturing an image. It should also be appreciated that, while the image can be generated at the time of printing an image from an original physical document, the electronic image data could have been generated at any time in the past.","The job execution system  controls the general data flow between the other components of the system . In this exemplary embodiment, the job execution system  is implemented using a programmed general purpose computer. However, the job execution system  can also be implemented using a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements, and ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hardware electronic or logical circuit, such as a discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device, such as PLD, PLA, FPGA or PAL, or the like. In general, any device capable of implementing a finite state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts shown in  can be used to implement the job execution system .","In various exemplary embodiment, the data sink  can be any known or later-developed device that is capable of receiving, sending and\/or storing the image data generated using the systems and methods according to this invention, such as a display device, a printer, a copier or other image forming device, a facsimile device, a modem, a file system, a Document Management\/Content Management system, including those that are Web based, a memory and the like.","The user interface  may be implemented using any combination of one or more user input devices, whether known or later-developed, that are capable of inputting data and\/or control commands to the system  via the one or more links . The user interface  may be one or more of a keyboard, a mouse, a touch pen, a touch pad, a pointing device, or the like. The user interface can also be touch screen or an electronic display system, such as a CRT, LCD, LED, or the like used in conjunction with one or more of a keyboard, a mouse, a touch pen, a touch pad, a pointing device, or the like.","The one or more links  can be any known or later-developed devices or systems for connecting the image scanning system , the job execution system , the data sink  and the user interface , including a direct connection, a connection over a wide area network or a local area network, a connection over an intranet, a connection over the internet, a connection without wires such as infrared or a connection over any other distributed processing network or system. In general, the one or more links  can be any known or later-developed connection system or structure usable to connect the image scanning system , the job execution system , the data sink  and the user interface .","The image captured by the image scanning system  may be a scanned image of a physical document or a photograph, a captured frame of a video recording, or the like.","In the scanning system , by using the systems and methods according to this invention, an image captured by the image scanning system  according to one scan job can be combined with one or more other scan jobs into a single combined job. The job execution system  incorporates the scan parameters for a plurality of scan jobs, and takes each set of documents scanned by the image scanning system  according to one scan job, using a set of parameters specific to that scan job and thus that set of documents, and appends that set of documents scanned using that set of parameters to a file containing scanned documents that have been scanned using at least one different set of parameters. The scanned image data is sent over the link  to the job execution system , data sink  and\/or user interface . The scanning system  can also create a single combined job larger than a capacity of the input device of a scanning device . The scanning system  can also direct a single combined job or components to a destination within the data sink . The user interface  can be used to input various job choices to the scanning system .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","200","210","220","230","240","250","270","260","280"]},"The input\/output interface  connects the image scanning system  to the outside environment. The controller  controls the input\/output interface , the memory , the scanning device , the determining circuit, routine or application , the image adjusting circuit, routine or application , and\/or the combining circuit, routine or application .","The memory  can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable, volatile or non-volatile memory or non-alterable, or fixed, memory. The alterable memory, whether volatile or non-volatile, can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic RAM, a floppy disk and disk drive, a writeable or a re-writeable optical disk and disk drive, a hard drive, flash memory or the like. Similarly, the non-alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, an optical ROM disk, such as a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM disk, and disk drive or the like.","The scanning device  obtains or captures an image. The scanning device  can be a digital camera, a scanner, or any other known or later-developed device that is capable of capturing electronic image data. The scanning device  can be integrated with one or more of the controller , the memory , the determining circuit, routine or application , the image adjusting circuit, routine or application , and\/or the combining circuit, routine or application , as in a digital copier having an integrated scanner. Alternatively, the scanning device  can be connected to the input\/output interface  of the image scanning system  using a connection, such as a direct connection, a connection over a wide area network or a local area network, a connection over an intranet, a connection over the internet, a wireless connection such as an infrared connection, or a connection over any other distributed processing network or system.","The determining circuit, routine or application  determines whether an image can be combined into an existing image or if several images can be combined. The determining circuit, routine or application  also determines whether one or more additional pages need to be scanned as part of integrating a scan job. If the determining circuit, routine or application  determines that any one of the images has one or more different scanning parameters, such as, for example, a different image resolution, a different page size, and\/or a different format, the image adjusting circuit, routine or application  allows adjusting of the image to be combined into a single combine job.","The image adjusting circuit, routine or application  adjusts the image according to one or more different scanning parameters, such as, for example, an image resolution, a page size, and\/or a format. When the image has been properly adjusted, the combining circuit, routine or application  combines the image with other previously scanned images into a single scanning job. The combined job can then be further processed by the controller , the determining circuit, routine or application , the image adjusting circuit, routine or application  and\/or the combining circuit, routine or application , or can be output through the input\/output interface  and sent over the one or more links , and\/or held in the memory .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["500","100","500","520","530","540","550","560","570","520","530","540","550","560"]},"The parameter selection widget  is used to select a desired combined job parameter. The selected desired operation includes selecting the type, size, resolution, color, and\/or the like, and selecting from one or more default values and\/or creating a desired operation from available options. The destination selection widget  is used to select a desired destination for the one or more images and\/or for a final combined job. The selected destination can include a default destination, can be the memory , or can be any other desired destination. The quality selection widget  is used to select a desired quality of the image and the deletion selection widget  is used to delete a selection. Although described as separate elements, the user interface  may be a template, a flowchart, a touch screen and\/or any other form of graphic user interface that presents optional choices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["100","200","300","400","500","200","600"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["300","300","5310","200","320","200","330","340"]},"In step S, a determination is made whether the job is complete based on the selection made in step S. If the current job is not completed, operation returns to step S. Otherwise, an indication that the current job is completed is generated in step S. Operation then continues to step S, where operation of the method returns to step S.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["330","330","331","320","332","333","334","320","331","335","340"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 8","FIG. 8"]},"While particular embodiments have been described, alternatives, modifications, variations, improvements, and substantial equivalents that are or may be presently unforeseen may arise to applicants or others skilled in the art. Accordingly, the appended claims as filed and as they may be amended are intended to embrace all such alternatives, modifications variations, improvements, and substantial equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of this invention will be described in detail, with reference to the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
