---
title: Temporary text and graphic feedback for object manipulators
abstract: A method, apparatus, and article of manufacture provide the ability to temporarily display information relating to an object manipulator. A graphic object is displayed in a computer graphics program. An object manipulator is then displayed on the graphic object. Cursor input where a cursor is placed over the object manipulator is received. In response to the cursor input, information relating to the object manipulator is temporarily displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08255814&OS=08255814&RS=08255814
owner: Autodesk, Inc.
number: 08255814
owner_city: San Rafael
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030908
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119(e) of the following co-pending and commonly-assigned U.S. provisional patent application(s), which is\/are incorporated by reference herein:","U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 60\/408,710, entitled \u201cDISPLAY AND USE OF OBJECT MANIPULATORS\u201d, by Scott Anthony Arvin, Marc W. Schindewolf, Rostislaw Starodub, Dianne Smith Phillips, Mandar Shashikant Garge, Paul Joseph McArdle, and John G. Ford III, filed on Sep. 6, 2002.","This application is related to the following co-pending and commonly-assigned patent application, which application is incorporated by reference herein:","U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/657,422, entitled \u201cOBJECT MANIPULATORS AND FUNCTIONALITY\u201d, by Scott Anthony Arvin, Marc W. Schindewolf, Rostislaw Starodub, Paul Joseph McArdle, and Mandar Shashikant Garge, filed on Sep. 8, 2003, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,110,005 issued on Sep. 19, 2006.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates generally to computer graphics programs, and in particular, to a method, apparatus, and article of manufacture for temporarily displaying text and graphic feedback for object manipulators in a computer graphics program.","2. Description of the Related Art","The use of graphics programs such as Computer Aided Design (CAD) application programs is well known in the art. CAD drawings often have many components (referred to as objects or graphics objects) that together define the drawing. In most computer applications that create and modify graphic objects, an object manipulator is a standard mechanism used to modify the geometric properties of the graphic object. However, the nature and use of prior art object manipulators fails to provide the ability to easily distinguish and identify the manipulator to be selected and the function to be performed by the manipulator. Further, the use of prior art object manipulators may be difficult and confusing. Such limitations are undesirable and reduce the flexibility and usability of computer graphics applications. These problems may be better understood by describing prior art drawing programs, object properties, object manipulators, and property modification techniques.","Drawing Programs","CAD applications are often used to create drawings used in the architectural, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry. The drawings are often defined by a collection of one or more graphical elements (referred to as objects), such as lines, circles, polylines, text, or dimensions. For example, a collection of various lines may make up a door or window object. CAD programs may treat each object as a single element for creation, manipulation, and modification. Some CAD programs may also provide objects that are special entities with predefined behaviors and display characteristics. Thus, the objects in a CAD program may be object-oriented objects having various methods\/behaviors and properties (including display characteristics).","Information relating to an object may be entered and defined in one or more properties of the object. For example, users may have the capability to enter information about the style, dimensions, location, schedule data, display information and\/or other important characteristics of an object.","Object Properties","To edit and maintain an object and\/or properties of the object, various methodologies may be available. For example, a properties window may provide a common \u201cone stop\u201d location where a user can manage object properties without having to use individual typed commands. Such a properties window may list the current settings for all object properties, and allow the properties to be viewed alphabetically or by category. To change a property, the property may be selected from the list and a new value may be selected or entered.","Object Manipulators","An object manipulator is a prior art mechanism used to modify the geometric properties of a graphic object. Other names for object manipulators are handles, or grips. An object manipulator is typically implemented as a glyph or symbol, such as a small square, displayed at some geometrically meaningful point on the object to be manipulated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","102"]},"The typical way to interact with an object manipulator  is to place an identifier (e.g., a cursor) controlled by a pointing device (e.g., a computer mouse) over the manipulator , activating the manipulator  by clicking a physical button on the pointing device, dragging the pointing device to change the position of the manipulator , and finally clicking the pointing device again to set the desired value of the object feature being manipulated. Thus, in the prior art, object manipulators  are often used to alter the geometric properties (e.g., vertex position, shape, etc.) of an object. However, to determine what and how the geometric property is to be altered, the user must experiment with the object manipulator or read the manual.","In view of the above, the prior art lacks the capability to easily determine what and how a geometric property will be altered by the use of an object manipulator.","A method, apparatus, and article of manufacture provide the ability to temporarily display text and\/or graphics relating to one or more object manipulators. When a cursor is moved over an object manipulator (also referred to as a grip), information is temporarily displayed. Such displaying occurs without the user actually selecting the object manipulator.","Accordingly, based on the displayed information, the user has the ability to determine whether or not to activate\/select the object manipulator. For example, when a cursor is placed over an object manipulator, the manipulator's color may change. Alternatively, graphics may illustrate the current value of an object's property or how activation of a particular modifier will affect the drawing or graphic object (i.e., that the object manipulator is associated with or placed on).","In the following description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof, and which is shown, by way of illustration, several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.","Hardware Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","204","206","200"]},"One or more embodiments of the invention are implemented by a computer-implemented graphics program  (e.g., a computer-aided design [CAD] program), wherein the graphics program  is represented by a window displayed on the display device . Generally, the graphics program  comprises logic and\/or data embodied in or readable from a device, media, carrier, or signal, e.g., one or more fixed and\/or removable data storage devices  connected directly or indirectly to the computer , one or more remote devices coupled to the computer  via a data communications device, etc.","Those skilled in the art will recognize that the exemplary environment illustrated in  is not intended to limit the present invention. Indeed, those skilled in the art will recognize that other alternative environments may be used without departing from the scope of the present invention.","Software Embodiments",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["208","208","300","302","304","306"]},"The Graphical User Interface  displays information to the operator and provides the functionality for the operator's interaction with the graphics program .","The Image Engine  processes the DWG files  and delivers the resulting graphics to the monitor  for display. In one or more embodiments, the Image Engine  provides a complete application programming interface (API) that allows other computer programs to interface to the graphics program  as needed.","The Database  is comprised of two separate types of databases: (1) a 3D database  known as the \u201c3D world space\u201d that stores 3D information; and (2) one or more 2D databases  known as the \u201c2D view ports\u201d that stores 2D information derived from the 3D information.","Object List",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["400","308","400","402","404","406","400","308","404","400","308"]},"Terminology","As used herein, certain terms may be used frequently. The following provides definitions and descriptions for such terminology. However, the terminology definitions and descriptions provided herein are not intended to limit the scope of the invention and alternative meanings of such terms remain within the scope of the invention.","A \u201cglyph\u201d is a symbol that conveys information nonverbally. A glyph may have the following properties:\n\n","A \u201cgrip\u201d is a glyph that has been positioned on an object and has an active area within which a pointing device will \u201csnap\u201d to the grip's position. The grip indicates that an action can be performed on the object, and defines the behavior of that action. A custom grip may have the following characteristics:\n\n","The standard unconstrained grip that may appear on graphics objects may have a glyph shape that is identical to the grip area in plan view and the glyph scale may be equal to one (1).","Potential Selection Based Color Display of Object Manipulators","In prior art computer graphics applications object manipulators may be colored for a variety of reasons. For example, the color of a manipulator may be set to indicate something about the feature being manipulated (e.g. on a solid modeling object, vertex manipulators might be one color, while edge manipulators might be another color). Alternatively, the color of the manipulator may indicate the selection state of the object selected. For example, one object in a selection set containing multiple objects might be one color, while all of the other objects might be another color. Such a coloring of a single object in a set may indicate that the single object is considered the primary selection.","However, the prior art use of colors with object manipulators tends to be static in that the colors do not dynamically change merely as a cursor is moved. In addition, in situations where manipulators are displayed in close proximity to each other, it can often be difficult for the user to anticipate which manipulator will be activated as a result of activating a pointing\/cursor control device (e.g., a computer mouse).","In one or more embodiments of the invention, the color of an object manipulator is changed when a user has positioned a cursor (e.g., controlled by a pointing\/cursor control device such as a computer mouse) over a manipulator but has not yet selected the manipulator. Accordingly, feedback is provided to the user as to which manipulator will be activated if the user activates the pointing control device, thereby reducing errors and unintended results while using object manipulators.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIGS. 5A-5C","FIG. 5A","FIG. 5B","FIG. 5C"],"b":["502","504","504","504","506","504","504","504","504","504"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["504","506","508","508"]},"Temporary Display of Dimensional Values Controlled by Object Manipulators","In the prior art, the dimensional properties of an object might be displayed when an object is selected, or when the manipulator controlling the value of the property is activated.","In accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention, the current value or values of the dimensional property to be modified by an object manipulator are temporarily displayed when a user has positioned a pointing device over a manipulator but has not yet selected the manipulator. The temporary dimensional values can be displayed immediately when the pointing device is positioned over the manipulator, or after a period of time has passed (e.g., a fraction of a second). Once displayed, the temporary dimensional values can be hidden after another period of time has passed. Alternatively, the temporary dimensional values may remain displayed until the user has either activated the manipulator or moved the position of the pointing device off of the manipulator.","By temporarily displaying the dimensional value, the user can use the manipulator to query the current state of the property the manipulator is used to edit, and then decide to activate the manipulator to change that property if the user determines that the current value is incorrect. This improves interaction by not requiring the user to use some other means to query the object's property, and by not requiring the user to activate the manipulator and accidentally changing a correct value.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIGS. 7A and 7B","FIG. 7A","FIG. 7B"],"b":["702","704","702","706"]},"Once the dimensions  are displayed, the user may decide whether or not to activate the object manipulator  under the pointing device position and modify the rectangle's  width and\/or height. If the user elects not to activate the object manipulator  (e.g., by moving the position of the pointing device off of the object manipulator ), the temporary dimensions are removed from the display, as again illustrated in .","Dynamic Display of Dimensional Values Controlled by Object Manipulators","As described above, in the prior art, editing dimensions might be displayed on an object when the object itself is selected. However, when actually using the functionality of an individual object manipulator, such editing dimensions are not displayed.","In one or more embodiments of the invention, the current value or values of the dimensional property to be modified by an object manipulator are displayed when a user has activated a manipulator, and are dynamically updated while the user drags the pointing device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIGS. 8A and 8B","FIG. 8A"],"b":["802","804","802"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0086"},"figref":"FIG. 8B","b":["802","806"]},"Displaying Existing, New, and Difference Values During Object Manipulation","In the prior art, it is often difficult to determine how activation of an object manipulator will affect the associated object. To facilitate such a determination, the invention may provide for the display of various dimensional values. Accordingly, when an object manipulator is used to modify the dimensional value of an object property, a set of three dimensions (also referred to as dimension trios) may be displayed when the manipulator has been activated.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0089"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A and 9B","FIGS. 9A and 9B","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"],"b":["902","904","906","902","904","902","904","906"]},"Using Key Presses to Cycle Editable Dimensions","While the prior art may provide the ability to edit the properties of an object using an object manipulator (which thereby affect the object's dimensions), the prior art is limited and does not provide flexibility to the user during the editing process.","In one or more embodiments of the invention, when more than one editable dimension is displayed when an object manipulator is activated, the user can cycle through the list of editable dimensions by pressing an application specific key (e.g., the Tab key). Further, another key or key combination may provide the ability to cycle backward through the same list (e.g., Shift+Tab).","Thus, users can cycle through dynamic dimensions (change focus) by pressing the appropriate key. Pressing the appropriate key changes focus to the next dimension displayed, which may be visually indicated by coloring the text of the dimension with focus (e.g., to red). Users may then cycle until they reach a neutral state (e.g., no dimension has focus), then cycling starts over again. Another key (e.g., Shift+Tab) changes focus to the previous dimension. In addition, cycling through the dimensions may not display an edit box for the next dimension. Instead, such an operation may only shift the focus. Further, when in a neutral state, numeric entry may not activate a dimension, instead the numeric entry may be directed at the command prompt or other dimensional input method.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIGS. 10A-10C","FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B","FIG. 10C"],"b":["1002","1004","1004","1004","1004","1004","1004"]},"Table A lists some examples of keys and their associated functions during cycling when dimensions are displayed while creating or grip-editing an object:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0096"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"168pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":"TABLE A"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["Key","Description"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Tab","Changes focus to the next dimension or neutral state"]},{"entry":["Shift + Tab","Changes focus to the previous dimension or neutral state"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"In addition to the above, different coloring may be used to differentiate the various displayed dimensions. For example, a dynamic dimension that is editable and currently has the focus may be drawn in a particular color with a bold text style. A dynamic dimension that is editable but does not have the current focus may be drawn in a particular color with a simple, non-bold text style. Further, a dynamic dimension that cannot be edited may be drawn with a dimmed color (e.g. gray) with a simple, non-bold text style.","Temporary Graphic Feedback of the Potential Results of Object Manipulator","Activation","As described above, in the prior art, it is often difficult to determine how activation of an object manipulator will affect a particular associated object. To facilitate such a determination, one or more embodiments of the invention may display graphics that indicate the potential change to an object's state when a user has positioned a pointing device over a manipulator but has not yet selected the manipulator.","Such feedback communicates to the user the potential results of interacting with an object manipulator without requiring the user to: (a) interact with the manipulator; (b) experiment with what can be done with the manipulator; and\/or (c) potentially undo unintended results.","For example, a graphics application might have a rectangle with possible horizontal alignment values of Left, Center, and Right, and possible vertical alignment values of Top, Middle, and Bottom, and the rectangle might be drawn using those alignment properties relative to its specified location. The rectangle could be drawn in different positions by changing its alignment but not its location.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0102"},"figref":["FIGS. 11A and 11B","FIG. 11A","FIG. 11B"]},"In view of the above, the temporary graphics are displayed when a user has positioned a pointing device over a manipulator but has not yet selected the manipulator. The temporary graphics can be displayed immediately when the pointing device is positioned over the manipulator, or after a period of time has passed (e.g., a fraction of a second). Once displayed, the temporary graphics can be hidden after another period of time has passed, or can remain displayed until the user has either activated the manipulator or moved the position of the pointing device off of the manipulator.","Temporary Text Feedback of Object Manipulator Function","In the prior art, users may learn the intended use of an object manipulator by its shape, position, through experimentation, or by reading the documentation. However, the prior art fails to provide the ability to easily determine how an object manipulator may be used without such activities.","In one or more embodiments of the invention, the function of an object manipulator, i.e. the name of property it is used to modify, is temporarily displayed in a text message box near the manipulator when a user has positioned a pointing device over a manipulator but has not yet activated it. In addition, the text message box may also display additional information about the manipulator's functionality (e.g., a legend describing the meaning of different colors displayed on\/near the object and\/or object manipulator).","This method communicates to the user the variety of actions possible with object manipulators without requiring the user to read the user documentation or experiment with the manipulators, thereby allowing the user to select the correct manipulator to modify the property they intend, and avoiding mistakes in selecting manipulators that modify other properties and requiring users to undo mistakes and try again.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0108"},"figref":["FIGS. 12A-12B","FIG. 12A","FIG. 12B"],"b":["1202","1204"]},"The text message box is displayed when a user has positioned a pointing device over a manipulator but has not yet selected it. Further, the message box can be displayed immediately when the pointing device is positioned over the manipulator, or after a period of time has passed (e.g., a fraction of a second). Once displayed, the message box can be hidden after another period of time has passed, or can remain displayed until the user has either activated the manipulator or moved the position of the pointing device off of the manipulator.","Temporary Text Feedback of Object Manipulator Function Modifiers","In addition to displaying the name of the property associated with the object manipulator (as described above), one or more embodiments of the invention may display the methods used to modify\/adjust a function associated with the object manipulator. In this regard, such methods\/capabilities are displayed along with the temporary text feedback that describes the base function of the manipulator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13"],"b":["1302","1304","1304","1304","1306","1304"]},"Thus, as described, text within the message box may describe how the function of the object manipulator may be modified to perform a more specific or different function (e.g., to snap to the nearest inch, the Ctrl key may be depressed).","Temporary Text Feedback of Object Manipulator Value","Similar to the above described temporary text (i.e., for the object property and object manipulator modifier), one or more embodiments of the invention may display additional information about the manipulator's functionality. For example, the current value of the property an object manipulator may be used to modify may be displayed. In this regard, the temporary text may act as a legend describing the manipulator's functionality, how to perform the function, and\/or a description of the displayed contents on the screen.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0116"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":["1402","1404","1402","1404","1406","1404"]},"In another example, if a door is displayed, the temporary text for an object manipulator may display \u201cSet width to standard size; Long gray marks\u2014Current height standard; Short red marks\u2014Current height is non-standard\u201d. In such an example, the object manipulator may be used to set the width of the door to a standard size. The text provides information regarding the value of the door's current properties, and\/or options or functions to change that value.","Logical Flow",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0119"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":"1500"},"At step , an object manipulator is displayed on the graphics object. At step , cursor input is received. Such cursor input provides for placing the cursor over the object manipulator.","At step , information relating to the object manipulator is temporarily displayed. As described above, the information may be displayed without activating the object manipulator. Further, the information may consist of a variety of different types and formats. For example, the information could be a change in a color of the object manipulator or the object manipulator may flash in different colors. Alternatively, the information could be a value of a property (e.g., a dimensional property) to be modified by the object manipulator. The information could also be graphics that indicate a potential change to a state of the graphic object (e.g., potential results of interacting with the object manipulator). Further, the information could be a function of the object manipulator, a name of a property the object manipulator is used to modify, and\/or a method used to modify a function of the object manipulator.","In addition to the above, the information may be displayed in a text message box. As described above, the information is temporarily displayed. In this regard, the information may be displayed immediately when the cursor is placed\/located over the object manipulator. Alternatively, the information may be displayed after a period of time has passed with the cursor located over the object manipulator. Once displayed, the information may be hidden from display after another period of time has passed. Alternatively, the information may remain displayed until a user activates the object manipulator or the cursor is moved off of the object manipulator.","Conclusion","This concludes the description of the preferred embodiment of the invention. The following describes some alternative embodiments for accomplishing the present invention. For example, any type of computer, such as a mainframe, minicomputer, or personal computer, or computer configuration, such as a timesharing mainframe, local area network, or standalone personal computer, could be used with the present invention.","The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by the claims appended hereto."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s) will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.","Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numbers represent corresponding parts throughout:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIGS. 5A-5C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A and 7B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A and 8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIGS. 9A and 9B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIGS. 10A-10C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 11A and 11B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIGS. 12A-12B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 15"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
