---
title: Flexible variable and execution matrix
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for selecting parameter values and combinations of parameter values to use in connection with testing. A graphical user interface allows a user to graphically illustrate the importance of parameter values by drawing a probability curve for each parameter. The resulting curves are then converted to mathematical functions that are then combined into a combination function. The combination function is then evaluated for different parameter value combinations. The parameter value combinations that cause the combination function to exceed a predetermined probability value are selected for testing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07110914&OS=07110914&RS=07110914
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07110914
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031103
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["Aspects of the present invention relate to the testing of hardware and software. More specifically, aspects of the present invention provide a graphical user interface and methods that assist users in selecting parameter values to test.","Software modules, such as application programming interfaces, continue to become increasingly complex. Such modules may include a larger number of input parameters and parameter combinations. The testing of software modules typically includes selecting parameter values and parameter value combinations. The combinations of parameter values are then applied to the software module and the resulting output is analyzed.","The selection of parameter values and combinations of parameter values is critical to ensure that a software module is operating properly. It is generally desirable to test the values and combinations of values that are mostly likely to occur during the operation of the software module. Existing systems and methods for selecting parameter values and combinations of parameter values can be time consuming and error prone. For example, manually selecting parameter values and combinations of parameter values can take a long time. And, for complex software modules that have a large number of parameters, the manual selection of parameter values and combinations of parameter values can result in a testing procedure that does not include testing critical inputs.","Therefore, there is a need in the art for efficient and accurate systems and methods for selecting input parameters and combinations of parameter values to use when testing software modules.","Aspects of the present invention address one or more of the issues mentioned above, thereby providing improved systems and methods for selecting parameter values and combinations of parameter values to use when testing software modules. A graphical user interface allows a user to graphically illustrate the importance of parameter values by drawing a probability curve for each parameter. The resulting curves are then converted to mathematical functions that are then combined into a combination function. The combination function is then evaluated for different parameter value combinations. The parameter value combinations that cause the combination function to exceed a predetermined probability value are selected for testing.","Exemplary Operating Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","110","120","130","110","130","120","140","150"]},"A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer , such as during start-up, is stored in the ROM . The computer  also includes a hard disk drive  for reading from and writing to a hard disk (not shown), a magnetic disk drive  for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk  such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive , magnetic disk drive , and optical disk drive  are connected to the system bus  by a hard disk drive interface , a magnetic disk drive interface , and an optical disk drive interface , respectively. The drives and their associated computer-readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the personal computer . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media that can store data that is accessible by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks, Bernoulli cartridges, random access memories (RAMs), read only memories (ROMs), and the like, may also be used in the example operating environment.","A number of program modules can be stored on the hard disk drive , magnetic disk , optical disk , ROM  or RAM , including an operating system , one or more application programs , other program modules , and program data . A user can enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard  and pointing device . Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a serial port interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). Further still, these devices may be coupled directly to the system bus  via an appropriate interface (not shown). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor, personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices (not shown), such as speakers and printers.","The computer  can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  can be a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer , although only a memory storage device  has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the local network  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the personal computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing a communications over the wide area network , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, is connected to the system bus  via the serial port interface . In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the personal computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device.","It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other techniques for establishing a communications link between the computers can be used. The existence of any of various well-known protocols such as TCP\/IP, Ethernet, FTP, HTTP, Bluetooth, IEEE 802.11x and the like is presumed, and the system can be operated in a client-server configuration to permit a user to retrieve web pages from a web-based server. Any of various conventional web browsers can be used to display and manipulate data on web pages.","Description of Illustrative Embodiments",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","204","206","208","202","202","202","204","210","202","202","206","208","202","206","208","212"]},"One skilled in the art will appreciate that the user interface control elements shown in  merely correspond to one embodiment of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention may include other control elements for altering the shape of probability curve  and\/or boundary elements. Moreover, a single user interface may include multiple probability curves, each of which corresponds to an individual parameter.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["302","302"]},"Aspects of the invention may be used with a variety of different domains of parameter values. , for example, illustrates a graphical user interface  in which the domain of parameter values includes two nonconsecutive sections.  illustrates a graphical user interface  that may be used to set the relative interest of a domain of discrete parameter values.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["602","602","200","200","200"]},"In step , the probability curves are converted into probability functions. Step  may include performing curve fitting, such as polynomial curve fitting. The degree of the polynomial may correspond to a desired accuracy level. Next, in step  the probability functions are combined into a combination function. In one embodiment of the invention, the combination function is normalized over the definition domains and is equal to:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["*","*"],"mrow":[{"mi":"P","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["x","i"]}}},{"mi":"Max","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"P","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["x","i"]}}}}}]},"mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mi":"P","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["x","i"]}}},"mn":"2"}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"equation","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"1"}}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i","i ","i","i"]},"In step  parameter value combinations that result in the combination function exceeding a predetermined probability value are selected. When continuous combination functions are used, one or more value intervals may be selected by a user. For example, a user may wish to only evaluate values of a first parameter that are whole numbers and to evaluate values of a second parameter every 1.5 units. A user may select the predetermined value and receive an execution matrix of parameter value combinations that result in the combination function meeting or exceeding the predetermined value. The execution matrix may include the results of the combination function next to each parameter value combination. In an alternative embodiment, the execution matrix includes all parameter value combinations.","Finally, in step , the selected parameter value combinations are utilized to test a software module. Step  may include applying the selected parameter value combinations as input to the software module and analyzing the output(s) of the software module. Any one of the well know software module testing methods may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","702","704","706","704","708"]},"Aspects of the present invention may be used to select other kinds of parameters as well\u2014for example strings. String parameters may include, for example, length, character code and templates. For this example, the definition domain for the function may be:","(A, n, TemplateSet)","where:","A is the character code set","n is the length of the string","TemplateSet is the collection of templates that may be of interests. This collection may include a predefined set of templates. The user may be allowed to add his or her own templates to the collection. For example, if","A={\u201ca\u201d, \u201cc\u201d, \u201cd\u201d} with the respective probabilities {\u00bd, \u00bc, \u00bc}","n={3, 4} with the respective probabilities {\u2154, \u2153}","PatternSet={\u201cConstant string\u201d, \u201cNull String\u201d} with the respective probabilities {\u2154, \u2153},","applying the methods disclosed above results in the string \u201caaa.\u201d","Aspects of the present invention are not limited to embodiments that involve the testing of software modules. The disclosed user interfaces and parameter value combinations may be used to select parameters value combinations to test hardware, such as integrated circuits and other devices and methods.","The present invention has been described in terms of preferred and exemplary embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments, modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Aspects of the present invention are described with respect to the accompanying figures, in which like reference numerals identify like elements, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
