---
title: Medical imaging systems
abstract: A medical imaging system provides simultaneous rendering of visible light and diagnostic or functional images. The system may be portable, and may include adapters for connecting various light sources and cameras in open surgical environments or laparascopic or endoscopic environments. A user interface provides control over the functionality of the integrated imaging system. In one embodiment, the system provides a tool for surgical pathology.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08473035&OS=08473035&RS=08473035
owner: Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
number: 08473035
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030915
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTERESTS","CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The United States Government may have certain rights in this invention pursuant to National Institute of Health Grant # R21CA88245 and Department of Energy Grant # DE-FG02-01ER63188.","This application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application PCT\/US03\/029368 filed Sep. 15, 2003, the specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. International Application PCT\/US03\/029368 was published under PCT Article 21(2) in English.","Absorption and fluorescent dyes, such as indocyanine green, have proven useful for medical imaging applications. Some of the more commonly used dyes share a number of useful characteristics. First, the dyes are suitable for labeling antibodies or low-molecular-weight ligands of diagnostic significance, or otherwise adapted for sequestration or preferential uptake at a site of interest such as a lesion. The dyes are safe for injection or other introduction into a live subject. And finally, the dyes emit light at a specific wavelength when excited, so that their location and concentration may be tracked.","A number of imaging systems have been devised to detect and display these dyes within living tissue. For example, dyes such as indocyanine green have been used to visualize blood flow in eyes. In some cases, such as U.S. Pat. No. 6,293,911 to Imaizumi et al., a dye imaging device has been combined with a visible light imaging system. Imaizumi describes endoscopic tools that generate images of dye-labeled antibodies superimposed over visible light images captured from within the body. As a disadvantage, the Imaizumi patent discloses a system with complex optics and hardware, and does not teach how the system might be adapted for use in open surgical applications such as surgical pathology.","There remains a need for improved surgical and diagnostic imaging tools capable of generating functional images concurrent with visible light images of a subject.","A medical imaging system provides simultaneous rendering of visible light and diagnostic, or functional, images. The system may be portable, and may include adapters for connecting various light sources and cameras in open surgical environments or laparascopic or endoscopic environments. A user interface provides control over the functionality of the integrated imaging system. In one embodiment, the system provides a tool for surgical pathology.","To provide an overall understanding of the invention, certain illustrative embodiments will now be described, including a system for generating superimposed circulatory and tissue images in video format. However, it will be understood that the methods and systems described herein can be suitably adapted to other medical imaging applications where visible light tissue images may be usefully displayed with diagnostic image information obtained from outside the visible light range and superimposed onto the visible light image. More generally, the methods and systems described herein may be adapted to any imaging application where a visible light image may be usefully displayed with a superimposed image captured from areas within the visible light image that are functionally marked to emit photons outside the visible light range (or in certain circumstances, within a specific band of visible light wavelengths) by a dye or other material. For example, the systems and methods are applicable to a wide range of diagnostic or surgical applications where a target pathology, tissue type, or cell may be labeled with a fluorescent dye or other fluorescent substance. These and other applications of the systems described herein are intended to fall within the scope of the invention.","Terms such as \u201cfunctional image,\u201d \u201cdiagnostic image,\u201d and \u201cemission wavelength image\u201d are intended to refer to the image captured from photons emitted by the markers (e.g., dyes or other substances) described herein. Unless otherwise specified, these terms are used interchangeable. Terms such as \u201ccombined image,\u201d \u201csuperimposed image\u201d, and \u201cmerged image\u201d are intended to refer to an image combining the visible light image and the functional image into a single image that may be displayed to a user. Unless otherwise specified, these terms are used interchangeably.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","102","104","106","108","110","112","114","116","118","120","122","124","126","102","104","106","110","108","106","122","106","120","110","106","124","126","100"]},"The imaging system  may be surrounded by an operating area (not shown) closed to ambient light. As will become clear from the following, many visible light sources such as incandescent lamps, halogen lamps, or daylight may include a broad spectrum of electromagnetic radiation that extends beyond the range of visible light detected by the human eye and into wavelengths used in the present system as a separate optical channel for generating diagnostic images. In order to effectively detect emission in these super-visible light wavelengths, it is preferred to enclose the surgical field , light sources , , and cameras ,  in an area that is not exposed to broadband light sources. This may be achieved by using an operating room closed to external light sources, or by using a hood or other enclosure or covering for the surgical field  that prevents invasion by unwanted spectrum. The visible light source  may then serve as a light source for the visible light camera , and also for provide conventional lighting within the visible light spectrum. As used herein, the term \u201coperating area\u201d is intended specifically to refer to an open surgical site that is closed to ambient light. Endoscopic or laparoscopic applications, as described below, are confined to surgical procedures within a closed body cavity, and do not include an operating area as that term is intended herein.","The visible light source  may be, for example, a near-infrared depleted white light source. This may be a one-hundred fifty Watt halogen lamp with one or more filters to deplete wavelengths greater than 700 nanometers (\u201cnm\u201d). Generally, any light source constrained to wavelengths between 400 nm and 700 nm may operate as the visible light source . In certain applications, the excitation light source  and resulting emission from the dye  may have wavelengths near or below 700 nm, as with Cy5 dye, which emits light when excited at 650 nm. These near-red dyes may be used with the present system, however, this requires a visible light source  that excludes a portion of the visible light spectrum in which the dye operates, i.e., a far-red depleted white light source. Similarly, applications using quantum dots as a fluorescent substance may have absorption or emission wavelengths anywhere in the visible light spectrum, and a suitable visible light source should be depleted at the wavelength(s) of interest. As such, the visible light source  should more generally be understood to be a source of light that includes some, but not necessarily all, of the wavelengths of visible light.","It should also be understood that, in a far-red imaging system or infrared imaging system such as those noted above, the near-infrared camera  described in the example embodiment will instead be a camera sensitive to the emission wavelength of the dye  or other fluorescent substance, and that other modifications to light sources, filters and other optics will be appropriate. Similar modifications may be made to isolate a band of wavelengths for dye excitation and emission anywhere within or outside the visible light range, provided that suitable optics, cameras, and dyes are available. Other fluorescent substances may also be used. For example, quantum dots may emit at visible light wavelengths, far-red, near-infrared, and infrared wavelengths, and at other wavelengths, typically in response to absorption below their emission wavelength. Suitable adjustments will be made to the excitation light source  and the emission camera, the near-infrared camera  in the example embodiment, for such applications. Cameras sensitive to far-red, near-infrared, and infrared wavelengths are commercially available.","The excitation light source  provides light at a wavelength that excites the dye . This may be, for example, a laser diode such as a 771 nm, 250 mW laser diode system, which may be obtained from Laser Components of Santa Rosa, Calif. Other single wavelength, narrowband, or broadband light sources may be used, provided they do not interfere with the visible light image captured by the video camera  or the emission wavelength of the dye . The near-infrared band is generally understood to include wavelengths between 700 nm and 1000 nm, and is a useful wavelength range for a number of readily available excitation light sources  and dyes  that may be used with the systems described herein. Suitable optical coupling and lenses may be provided to direct each of the visible light source  and the excitation light source  at an area of interest within the surgical field .","The surgical field  may be any area of a subject or patient that is open for a surgical procedure. This may be, for example, an open chest during a procedure such as a revascularization or cardiac gene therapy, where visualization of the circulatory system may improve identification of areas at risk for myocardial infarction. Blood flow visualization may permit an assessment of coronary arteries during a coronary artery bypass graft, or an assessment of blood flow and viability during introduction of genes for endothelial growth factor or fibroblast growth factor to induce neovascularization within ischemic regions of the heart. More generally, the surgical field  may include any areas of a patient's body, such as a region of the body that includes a tumor that is to be surgically removed, and that is amenable to visualization with fluorescent dyes, such as through the use of labeled antibodies.","The dye source  may be any instrument used for injection or other introduction of the dye  into a subject, such as a hypodermic needle or angiocath. Where, for example, the dye  is highly soluble in blood, the dye source  may be administered anywhere on the subject, and need not be near the surgical field . For example, it has been found that IRDye78-CA (the carboxylic acid form of IRDye78), when injected intravenously into a live laboratory rat, produced peak vasculature image strength of an open heart approximately 5-10 seconds after injection, and remained adequate for visualization for over one minute. In certain embodiments, the dye source  may not use injection. For example, the dye source  may spray or otherwise apply the dye  to an area of interest. Depending upon the type of dye and the imaging technique, the dye  may be delivered in a discrete dose, or may be continuously or intermittently applied and re-applied by the dye source .","The dye  may be any dye suitable for use in vivo and having excitation and emission wavelengths suitable for other components of the system . Typically, the dye  will be diluted to 25-50 \u03bcM for intravenous injection, such as with phosphate buffered saline, which may be supplemented with Cremophor EL (Sigma) and\/or absolute ethanol. A number of suitable near-infrared dyes are described below.","\u2018Acyl\u2019 refers to a group suitable for acylating a nitrogen atom to form an amide or carbamate, a carbon atom to form a ketone, a sulfur atom to form a thioester, or an oxygen atom to form an ester group, e.g., a hydrocarbon attached to a \u2014C(\u2550O)-moiety. Preferred acyl groups include benzoyl, acetyl, tert-butyl acetyl, pivaloyl, and trifluoroacetyl. More preferred acyl groups include acetyl and benzoyl. The most preferred acyl group is acetyl.","The terms \u2018amine\u2019 and \u2018amino\u2019 are art-recognized and refer to both unsubstituted and substituted amines as well as ammonium salts, e.g., as can be represented by the general formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00001","num":"00001"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00001","he":"13.04mm","wi":"30.90mm","file":"US08473035-20130625-C00001.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["9","10","10 ","9 ","10 ","9","10","10 ","9","10","10 ","10 ","a "]},"The terms \u2018amido\u2019 and \u2018amide\u2019 are art-recognized as an amino-substituted carbonyl, such as a moiety that can be represented by the general formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00002","num":"00002"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00002","he":"12.36mm","wi":"14.90mm","file":"US08473035-20130625-C00002.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["9 ","10 "]},"\u2018Alkyl\u2019 refers to a saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon chain having 1 to 18 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 12, more preferably 1 to 6, more preferably still 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Alkyl chains may be straight (e.g., n-butyl) or branched (e.g., sec-butyl, isobutyl, or t-butyl). Preferred branched alkyls have one or two branches, preferably one branch. Preferred alkyls are saturated. Unsaturated alkyls have one or more double bonds and\/or one or more triple bonds. Preferred unsaturated alkyls have one or two double bonds or one triple bond, more preferably one double bond. Alkyl chains may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to 4 substitutents. Preferred alkyls are unsubstituted. Preferred substituted alkyls are mono-, di-, or trisubstituted. Preferred alkyl substitutents include halo, haloalkyl, hydroxy, aryl (e.g., phenyl, tolyl, alkoxyphenyl, alkyloxycarbonylphenyl, halophenyl), heterocyclyl, and heteroaryl.","The terms \u2018alkenyl\u2019 and \u2018alkynyl\u2019 refer to unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the alkyls described above, but that contain at least one double or triple bond, respectively. When not otherwise indicated, the terms alkenyl and alkynyl preferably refer to lower alkenyl and lower alkynyl groups, respectively. When the term alkyl is present in a list with the terms alkenyl and alkynyl, the term alkyl refers to saturated alkyls exclusive of alkenyls and alkynyls.","The terms \u2018alkoxyl\u2019 and \u2018alkoxy\u2019 as used herein refer to an \u2014O-alkyl group. Representative alkoxyl groups include methoxy, ethoxy, propyloxy, tert-butoxy, and the like. An \u2018ether\u2019 is two hydrocarbons covalently linked by an oxygen. Accordingly, the substitutent of a hydrocarbon that renders that hydrocarbon an ether can be an alkoxyl, or another moiety such as \u2014O-aryl, \u2014O-heteroaryl, \u2014O-heteroalkyl, \u2014O-aralkyl, \u2014O-heteroaralkyl, \u2014O-carbocylic aliphatic, or \u2014O-heterocyclic aliphatic.","The term \u2018aralkyl\u2019, as used herein, refers to an alkyl group substituted with an aryl group.","\u2018Aryl ring\u2019 refers to an aromatic hydrocarbon ring system. Aromatic rings are monocyclic or fused bicyclic ring systems, such as phenyl, naphthyl, etc. Monocyclic aromatic rings contain from about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms, preferably from 5 to 7 carbon atoms, and most preferably from 5 to 6 carbon atoms in the ring. Bicyclic aromatic rings contain from 8 to 12 carbon atoms, preferably 9 or 10 carbon atoms in the ring. The term \u2018aryl\u2019 also includes bicyclic ring systems wherein only one of the rings is aromatic, e.g., the other ring is cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, or heterocyclyl. Aromatic rings may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to about 5 substitutents on the ring. Preferred aromatic ring substitutents include: halo, cyano, lower alkyl, heteroalkyl, haloalkyl, phenyl, phenoxy, or any combination thereof. More preferred substitutents include lower alkyl, cyano, halo, and haloalkyl.","\u2018Cycloalkyl ring\u2019 refers to a saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon ring. Cycloalkyl rings are not aromatic. Cycloalkyl rings are monocyclic, or are fused, spiro, or bridged bicyclic ring systems. Monocyclic cycloalkyl rings contain from about 4 to about 10 carbon atoms, preferably from 4 to 7 carbon atoms, and most preferably from 5 to 6 carbon atoms in the ring. Bicyclic cycloalkyl rings contain from 8 to 12 carbon atoms, preferably from 9 to 10 carbon atoms in the ring. Cycloalkyl rings may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to 4 substitutents on the ring. Preferred cycloalkyl ring substitutents include halo, cyano, alkyl, heteroalkyl, haloalkyl, phenyl, phenoxy or any combination thereof. More preferred substitutents include halo and haloalkyl. Preferred cycloalkyl rings include cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptyl, and cyclooctyl. More preferred cycloalkyl rings include cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, and cyclooctyl.","The term \u2018carbonyl\u2019 is art-recognized and includes such moieties as can be represented by the general formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00003","num":"00003"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00003","he":"11.68mm","wi":"37.00mm","file":"US08473035-20130625-C00003.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["11 ","11\u2032","11 ","11\u2032","11 ","11\u2032","11\u2032","11 ","11\u2032","11 ","11\u2032","11 ","11 "]},"\u2018Ci alkyl\u2019 is an alkyl chain having i member atoms. For example, C4 alkyls contain four carbon member atoms. C4 alkyls containing may be saturated or unsaturated with one or two double bonds (cis or trans) or one triple bond. Preferred C4 alkyls are saturated. Preferred unsaturated C4 alkyl have one double bond. C4 alkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two substitutents. Preferred substitutents include lower alkyl, lower heteroalkyl, cyano, halo, and haloalkyl.","\u2018Halogen\u2019 refers to fluoro, chloro, bromo, or iodo substitutents. Preferred halo are fluoro, chloro and bromo; more preferred are chloro and fluoro.","\u2018Heteroalkyl\u2019 is a saturated or unsaturated chain of carbon atoms and at least one heteroatom, wherein no two heteroatoms are adjacent. Heteroalkyl chains contain from 1 to 18 member atoms (carbon and heteroatoms) in the chain, preferably 1 to 12, more preferably 1 to 6, more preferably still 1 to 4. Heteroalkyl chains may be straight or branched. Preferred branched heteroalkyl have one or two branches, preferably one branch. Preferred heteroalkyl are saturated. Unsaturated heteroalkyl have one or more double bonds and\/or one or more triple bonds. Preferred unsaturated heteroalkyl have one or two double bonds or one triple bond, more preferably one double bond. Heteroalkyl chains may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to about 4 substitutents unless otherwise specified. Preferred heteroalkyl are unsubstituted. Preferred heteroalkyl substitutents include halo, aryl (e.g., phenyl, tolyl, alkoxyphenyl, alkoxycarbonylphenyl, halophenyl), heterocyclyl, heteroaryl. For example, alkyl chains substituted with the following substitutents are heteroalkyl: alkoxy (e.g., methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy, pentoxy), aryloxy (e.g., phenoxy, chlorophenoxy, tolyloxy, methoxyphenoxy, benzyloxy, alkoxycarbonylphenoxy, acyloxyphenoxy), acyloxy (e.g., propionyloxy, benzoyloxy, acetoxy), carbamoyloxy, carboxy, mercapto, alkylthio, acylthio, arylthio (e.g., phenylthio, chlorophenylthio, alkylphenylthio, alkoxyphenylthio, benzylthio, alkoxycarbonylphenylthio), amino (e.g., amino, mono- and di- C1-C3 alkylamino, methylphenylamino, methylbenzylamino, C1-C3 alkylamido, carbamamido, ureido, guanidino).","\u2018Heteroatom\u2019 refers to a multivalent non-carbon atom, such as a boron, phosphorous, silicon, nitrogen, sulfur, or oxygen atom, preferably a nitrogen, sulfur, or oxygen atom. Groups containing more than one heteroatom may contain different heteroatoms.","\u2018Heteroaryl ring\u2019 refers to an aromatic ring system containing carbon and from 1 to about 4 heteroatoms in the ring. Heteroaromatic rings are monocyclic or fused bicyclic ring systems. Monocyclic heteroaromatic rings contain from about 5 to about 10 member atoms (carbon and heteroatoms), preferably from 5 to 7, and most preferably from 5 to 6 in the ring. Bicyclic heteroaromatic rings contain from 8 to 12 member atoms, preferably 9 or 10 member atoms in the ring. The term \u2018heteroaryl\u2019 also includes bicyclic ring systems wherein only one of the rings is aromatic, e.g., the other ring is cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, or heterocyclyl. Heteroaromatic rings may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to about 4 substitutents on the ring. Preferred heteroaromatic ring substitutents include halo, cyano, lower alkyl, heteroalkyl, haloalkyl, phenyl, phenoxy or any combination thereof. Preferred heteroaromatic rings include thienyl, thiazolyl, oxazolyl, pyrrolyl, purinyl, pyrimidyl, pyridyl, and furanyl. More preferred heteroaromatic rings include thienyl, furanyl, and pyridyl.","\u2018Heterocyclic aliphatic ring\u2019 is a non-aromatic saturated or unsaturated ring containing carbon and from 1 to about 4 heteroatoms in the ring, wherein no two heteroatoms are adjacent in the ring and preferably no carbon in the ring attached to a heteroatom also has a hydroxyl, amino, or thiol group attached to it. Heterocyclic aliphatic rings are monocyclic, or are fused or bridged bicyclic ring systems. Monocyclic heterocyclic aliphatic rings contain from about 4 to about 10 member atoms (carbon and heteroatoms), preferably from 4 to 7, and most preferably from 5 to 6 member atoms in the ring. Bicyclic heterocyclic aliphatic rings contain from 8 to 12 member atoms, preferably 9 or 10 member atoms in the ring. Heterocyclic aliphatic rings may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to about 4 substitutents on the ring. Preferred heterocyclic aliphatic ring substitutents include halo, cyano, lower alkyl, heteroalkyl, haloalkyl, phenyl, phenoxy or any combination thereof. More preferred substitutents include halo and haloalkyl. Heterocyclyl groups include, for example, thiophene, thianthrene, furan, pyran, isobenzofuran, chromene, xanthene, phenoxathin, pyrrole, imidazole, pyrazole, isothiazole, isoxazole, pyridine, pyrazine, pyrimidine, pyridazine, indolizine, isoindole, indole, indazole, purine, quinolizine, isoquinoline, hydantoin, oxazoline, imidazolinetrione, triazolinone, quinoline, phthalazine, naphthyridine, quinoxaline, quinazoline, quinoline, pteridine, carbazole, carboline, phenanthridine, acridine, phenanthroline, phenazine, phenarsazine, phenothiazine, furazan, phenoxazine, pyrrolidine, oxolane, thiolane, oxazole, piperidine, piperazine, morpholine, lactones, lactams such as azetidinones and pyrrolidinones, sultams, sultones, and the like. Preferred heterocyclic aliphatic rings include piperazyl, morpholinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydropyranyl and piperidyl. Heterocycles can also be polycycles.","The term \u2018hydroxyl\u2019 means \u2014OH.","\u2018Lower alkyl\u2019 refers to an alkyl chain comprised of 1 to 4, preferably 1 to 3 carbon member atoms, more preferably 1 or 2 carbon member atoms. Lower alkyls may be saturated or unsaturated. Preferred lower alkyls are saturated. Lower alkyls may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or about two substitutents. Preferred substitutents on lower alkyl include cyano, halo, trifluoromethyl, amino, and hydroxyl. Throughout the application, preferred alkyl groups are lower alkyls. In preferred embodiments, a substitutent designated herein as alkyl is a lower alkyl. Likewise, \u2018lower alkenyl\u2019 and \u2018lower alkynyl\u2019 have similar chain lengths.","\u2018Lower heteroalkyl\u2019 refers to a heteroalkyl chain comprised of 1 to 4, preferably 1 to 3 member atoms, more preferably 1 to 2 member atoms. Lower heteroalkyl contain one or two non-adjacent heteroatom member atoms. Preferred lower heteroalkyl contain one heteroatom member atom. Lower heteroalkyl may be saturated or unsaturated. Preferred lower heteroalkyl are saturated. Lower heteroalkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or about two substitutents. Preferred substitutents on lower heteroalkyl include cyano, halo, trifluoromethyl, and hydroxyl.","\u2018Mi heteroalkyl\u2019 is a heteroalkyl chain having i member atoms. For example, M4 heteroalkyls contain one or two non-adjacent heteroatom member atoms. M4 heteroalkyls containing 1 heteroatom member atom may be saturated or unsaturated with one double bond (cis or trans) or one triple bond. Preferred M4 heteroalkyl containing 2 heteroatom member atoms are saturated. Preferred unsaturated M4 heteroalkyl have one double bond. M4 heteroalkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two substitutents. Preferred substitutents include lower alkyl, lower heteroalkyl, cyano, halo, and haloalkyl.","\u2018Member atom\u2019 refers to a polyvalent atom (e.g., C, O, N, or S atom) in a chain or ring system that constitutes a part of the chain or ring. For example, in cresol, six carbon atoms are member atoms of the ring and the oxygen atom and the carbon atom of the methyl substitutent are not member atoms of the ring.","As used herein, the term \u2018nitro\u2019 means \u2014NO.","\u2018Pharmaceutically acceptable salt\u2019 refers to a cationic salt formed at any acidic (e.g., hydroxamic or carboxylic acid) group, or an anionic salt formed at any basic (e.g., amino or guanidino) group. Such salts are well known in the art. See e.g., World Patent Publication 87\/05297, Johnston et al., published Sep. 11, 1987, incorporated herein by reference. Such salts are made by methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art. It is recognized that the skilled artisan may prefer one salt over another for improved solubility, stability, formulation ease, price and the like. Determination and optimization of such salts is within the purview of the skilled artisan's practice. Preferred cations include the alkali metals (such as sodium and potassium), and alkaline earth metals (such as magnesium and calcium) and organic cations, such as trimethylammonium, tetrabutylammonium, etc. Preferred anions include halides (such as chloride), sulfonates, carboxylates, phosphates, and the like. Clearly contemplated in such salts are addition salts that may provide an optical center where once there was none. For example, a chiral tartrate salt may be prepared from the compounds of the invention. This definition includes such chiral salts.","\u2018Phenyl\u2019 is a six-membered monocyclic aromatic ring that may or may not be substituted with from 1 to 5 substitutents. The substitutents may be located at the ortho, meta or para position on the phenyl ring, or any combination thereof. Preferred phenyl substitutents include: halo, cyano, lower alkyl, heteroalkyl, haloalkyl, phenyl, phenoxy or any combination thereof. More preferred substitutents on the phenyl ring include halo and haloalkyl. The most preferred substitutent is halo.","The terms \u2018polycyclyl\u2019 and \u2018polycyclic group\u2019 refer to two or more rings (e.g., cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, heteroaryls, aryls and\/or heterocyclyls) in which two or more member atoms of one ring are member atoms of a second ring. Rings that are joined through non-adjacent atoms are termed \u2018bridged\u2019 rings, and rings that are joined through adjacent atoms are \u2018fused rings\u2019.","The term \u2018sulfate\u2019 is art-recognized and includes a moiety that can be represented by the general formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00004","num":"00004"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00004","he":"9.74mm","wi":"22.27mm","file":"US08473035-20130625-C00004.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":"10 "},"A \u2018substitution\u2019 or \u2018substitutent\u2019 on a small organic molecule generally refers to a position on a multivalent atom bound to a moiety other than hydrogen, e.g., a position on a chain or ring exclusive of the member atoms of the chain or ring. Such moieties include those defined herein and others as are known in the art, for example, halogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, azide, haloalkyl, hydroxyl, carbonyl (such as carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, formyl, ketone, or acyl), thiocarbonyl (such as thioester, thioacetate, or thioformate), alkoxyl, phosphoryl, phosphonate, phosphinate, amine, amide, amidine, imine, cyano, nitro, azido, sulfhydryl, alkylthio, sulfate, sulfonate, sulfamoyl, sulfonamido, sulfonyl, silyl, ether, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, and heteroalkynyl, heteroaralkyl, aralkyl, aryl or heteroaryl. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that certain substitutents, such as aryl, heteroaryl, polycyclyl, alkoxy, alkylamino, alkyl, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, and heteroalkynyl, can themselves be substituted, if appropriate. This invention is not intended to be limited in any manner by the permissible substitutents of organic compounds. It will be understood that \u2018substitution\u2019 or \u2018substituted with\u2019 includes the implicit proviso that such substitution is in accordance with permitted valence of the substituted atom and the substitutent, and that the substitution results in a stable compound, e.g., which does not spontaneously undergo transformation such as by rearrangement, cyclization, elimination, hydrolysis, etc.","As used herein, the definition of each expression, e.g., alkyl, m, n, etc., when it occurs more than once in any structure, is intended to be independent of its definition elsewhere in the same structure.","The abbreviations Me, Et, Ph, Tf, Nf, Ts, and Ms represent methyl, ethyl, phenyl, trifluoromethanesulfonyl, nonafluorobutanesulfonyl, p-toluenesulfonyl, and methanesulfonyl, respectively. A more comprehensive list of the abbreviations utilized by organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art appears in the first issue of each volume of the ; this list is typically presented in a table entitled Standard List of Abbreviations. The abbreviations contained in said list, and all abbreviations utilized by organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art are hereby incorporated by reference.","For purposes of this invention, the chemical elements are identified in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 67th Ed., 1986-87, inside cover. Also for purposes of this invention, the term \u2018hydrocarbon\u2019 is contemplated to include all permissible compounds or moieties having at least one carbon-hydrogen bond. In a broad aspect, the permissible hydrocarbons include acyclic and cyclic, branched and unbranched, carbocyclic and heterocyclic, aromatic and nonaromatic organic compounds which can be substituted or unsubstituted.","Contemplated equivalents of the compounds described above include compounds which otherwise correspond thereto, and which have the same useful properties thereof, wherein one or more simple variations of substitutents are made which do not adversely affect the efficacy of the compound. In general, the compounds of the present invention may be prepared by the methods illustrated in the general reaction schemes as, for example, described below, or by modifications thereof, using readily available starting materials, reagents and conventional synthesis procedures. In these reactions, it is also possible to make use of variants that are in themselves known, but are not mentioned here.","In certain embodiments, the subject method employs a fluorescent dye having a structure of the formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00005","num":"00005"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00005","he":"40.98mm","wi":"61.55mm","file":"US08473035-20130625-C00005.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"wherein, as valence and stability permit,\n\n","Dyes representative of this formula include indocyanine green, as well as:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0071"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00006","num":"00006"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00006","he":"94.74mm","wi":"61.13mm","file":"US08473035-20130625-C00006.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}}},"In certain embodiments wherein two occurrences of R taken together form a ring, the ring is six-membered, e.g., the fluorescent dye has a structure of formula:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0073"},"chemistry":{"@attributes":{"id":"CHEM-US-00007","num":"00007"},"img":{"@attributes":{"id":"EMI-C00007","he":"40.98mm","wi":"61.55mm","file":"US08473035-20130625-C00007.TIF","alt":"embedded image","img-content":"chem","img-format":"tif"}}},"br":{},"sub":["1","2","3","4","5 "]},"Dyes representative of this formula include IRDye78, IRDye80, IRDye38, IRDye40, IRDye41, IRDye700, IRDye800, Cy7 (AP Biotech), and compounds formed by conjugating a second molecule to any such dye, e.g., a protein or nucleic acid conjugated to IRDye800, IRDye40, or Cy7, etc. The IRDyes are commercially available from Li-Cor Biosciences of Lincoln, Nebr., and each dye has a specified peak absorption wavelength (also referred to herein as the excitation wavelength) and peak emission wavelength that may be used to select suitable optical hardware for use therewith. It will be appreciated that other dyes may also be used, including the far-red dyes noted above, provided suitable adjustments are made to the visible light imaging components of the system , and other near-infrared dyes or infrared substances such as the previously mentioned quantum dots. Several specific dyes suited for specific imaging techniques are now described.","IRDye78-CA is useful for imaging the vasculature of the tissues and organs. The dye in its small molecule form is soluble in blood, and has an in vivo early half-life of several minutes. This permits multiple injections during a single procedure. Indocyanine green has similar characteristics, but is somewhat less soluble in blood and has a shorter half-life. IRDye78 may also be used in other imaging applications, since it can be conjugated to tumor-specific ligands for tumor visualization. More generally, IRDye78 may be linked to an antibody, antibody fragment, or ligand associated with a tumor. Presence of the tumor or lesion may then be visualized using the techniques described above.","As another example, IR-786 partitions efficiently into mitochondria and\/or endoplasmic reticulum in a concentration-dependent manner, thus permitting blood flow and ischemia visualization in a living heart. The dye has been successfully applied, for example, to image blood flow in the heart of a living laboratory rat after a thoracotomy. More generally, IR-786 may be used for non-radioactive imaging of areas of ischemia in the living heart, or other visualization of the viability of other tissues.","While a number of suitable dyes have been described, it should be appreciated that such fluorescent dyes are examples only, and that more generally, any fluorescent substance may be used with the imaging systems described herein, provided the substance has an emission wavelength that does not interfere with visible light imaging. This includes the fluorescent dyes described above, as well as substances such as quantum dots which may have emission wavelengths above 1000 nm, and may be associated with an antibody, antibody fragment, or ligand and imaged in vivo. All such substances are referred to herein as fluorescent substances, and it will be understood that suitable modifications may be made to components of the imaging system for use with any such fluorescent substance.","The lens  may be any lens suitable for receiving light from the surgical field  and focusing the light for image capture by the near-infrared camera  and the video camera . The lens  may include one or more optical coatings suitable for the wavelengths to be imaged, and may provide for manual, electronically-assisted manual, or automatic control of zoom and focus.","The first filter  may be positioned in the image path from the lens  such that a visible light image having one or more visible light wavelengths is directed toward the video camera , either by reflection or transmittance. An emission image from the excited dye  passes through the lens  and is directed toward the near infrared camera , again either through reflection or transmittance. A number of arrangements of the cameras ,  and the first filter  are possible, and may involving reflecting or transmitting either the visible light image or the emission wavelength image (also referred to herein as the diagnostic image).","In one embodiment, IRDye78-CA (carboxylic acid) having a peak absorption near 771 nm and a peak emission near 806 nm, is used with the system . In this embodiment, the first filter  may be a 785 nm dichroic mirror that transmits near-infrared light and reflects visible light. The first filter  may be positioned within an image path from the lens  such that a visible light image of the surgical field  is reflected toward the video camera  through the third filter . The third filter  may be, for example, a 400 nm-700 nm visible light filter. At the same time, the first filter  is positioned with the image path from the lens  such that a near-infrared image (i.e., the excitation wavelength image) is transmitted toward the near-infrared camera  through the second filter . The second filter  may be an 810 nm +\/\u221220 nm near-infrared emission filter. The filters may be standard or custom-ordered optical components, which are commercially available from optical component suppliers. Other arrangements of filters and other optical components may be used with the system  described herein.","The near-infrared camera  may be any still or moving image camera suitable for capturing images at the emission wavelength of the excited dye . The near-infrared camera may be, for example, an Orca-ER near-infrared camera with settings of gain 7, 2\u00d72 binning, 640\u00d7480 pixel field of view, and an exposure time of 20 msec and an effective frame rate of fifteen frames per second. The Orca-ER is commercially available from Hamamatsu Photonic Systems of Bridgewater, N.J. It will be understood that the near-infrared camera  of  is only an example. An infrared camera, a far-red camera, or some other camera or video device may be used to capture an diagnostic image, with the camera and any associated filters selected according to the wavelength of a corresponding fluorescent substance used with the imaging system. As used herein, the term \u201cemission wavelength camera\u201d is intended to refer to any such camera that may be used with the systems described herein.","The video camera  may be any video camera suitable for capturing images of the surgical field  in the visible light spectrum. In one embodiment, the video camera  is a color video camera model HV-D27, commercially available from Hitachi of Tarrytown, N.Y. The video camera  may capture red-green-blue (RGB) images at thirty frames per second at a resolution of 640\u00d7480 pixels. More generally, the near-infrared camera  and the video camera  may be any device capable of photonic detection and conversion to electronic images, including linear photodiode arrays, charge coupled device arrays, scanning photomultiplier tubes, and so forth.","The display  may be a television, high-definition television, computer monitor, or other display configured to receive and render signals from the image processing unit . The surgical field  may also be a neurosurgical site, with a surgical microscope used to view the surgical field . In this embodiment, the display  may be a monocular or binocular eyepiece of the surgical microscope, with the near-infrared image superimposed on the visible light image in the eyepiece. In another embodiment, the eyepiece may use direct optical coupling of the surgical field  to the eyepiece for conventional microscopic viewing, with the near-infrared image projected onto the eyepiece using, for example, heads-up display technology.","The image processing unit  may include any software and\/or hardware suitable for receiving images from the cameras , , processing the images as desired, and transmitting the images to the display . In one embodiment, the image processing unit  is realized in software on a Macintosh computer equipped with a Digi-16 Snapper frame grabber for the Orca-ER, commercially available from DataCell of North Billerica, Mass., and equipped with a CG-7 frame grabber for the HV-D27, commercially available from Scion of Frederick Md., and using IPLab software, commercially available from Sanalytics of Fairfax, Va. While a Macintosh may be used in one embodiment, any general purpose computer may be programmed to perform the image processing functions described herein, including an Intel processor-based computer, or a computer using hardware from Sun Microsystems, Silicon Graphics, or any other microprocessor manufacturer.","Generally, the image processing unit  should be capable of digital filtering, gain adjustment, color balancing, and any other conventional image processing functions. The image from the near-infrared camera  is also typically shifted into the visible light range for display at some prominent wavelength, e.g., a color distinct from the visible light colors of the surgical field , so that a superimposed image will clearly depict the dye. The image processing unit  may also perform image processing to combine the image from the near-infrared camera  and the video camera . Where the images are displayed side-by-side, this may simply entail rendering the images in suitable locations on a computer screen. Where the images are superimposed, a frame rate adjustment may be required. That is, if the video camera  is capturing images at the conventional rate of thirty frames per second and the near-infrared camera  is taking still pictures with an effective frame rate of fifteen frames per second, some additional processing may be required to render the superimposed images concurrently. This may entail either reducing the frame rate of the video camera  to the frame rate of the near-infrared camera  either by using every other frame of video data or averaging or otherwise interpolating video data to a slower frame rate. This may instead entail increasing the frame rate of the near-infrared image data, either by holding each frame of near-infrared data over successive frames of video data or extrapolating near-infrared data, such as by warping the near-infrared image according to changes in the video image or employing other known image processing techniques.","Generally, any combination of software or hardware may be used in the image processing unit . The functions of the image processing unit  may be realized, for example, in one or more microprocessors, microcontrollers, embedded microcontrollers, programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device, along with internal and\/or external memory such as read-only memory, programmable read-only memory, electronically erasable programmable read-only memory, random access memory, dynamic random access memory, double data rate random access memory, Rambus direct random access memory, flash memory, or any other volatile or non-volatile memory for storing program instructions, program data, and program output or other intermediate or final results. The functions may also, or instead, include one or more application specific integrated circuits, programmable gate arrays, programmable array logic devices, or any other device or devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. Any combination of the above circuits and components, whether packaged discretely, as a chip, as a chipset, or as a die, may be suitably adapted to use with the systems described herein.","It will further be appreciated that each function of the image processing unit  may be realized as computer executable code created using a structured programming language such as C, an object-oriented programming language such as C++ or Java, or any other high-level or low-level programming language that may be compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices, as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors, processor architectures, or combinations of different hardware and software. The image processing unit  may be deployed using software technologies or development environments including a mix of software languages, such as Java, C++, Oracle databases, SQL, and so forth. It will be further appreciated that the functions of the image processing unit  may be realized in hardware, software, or some combination of these.","In one embodiment, the visible light source  is a near-infrared depleted visible light source, the excitation light source  is a 771 mm, 250 mW laser diode, the dye  is indocyanine green or IRDye78-CA, the first filter  is a 785 nm dichroic mirror configured to transmit near-infrared light and reflect visible light, the second filter  is an 810 nm +\/\u221220 nm near-infrared emission filter, and the third filter  is a 400 nm to 700 nm filter. The image processing unit  is a computer with software for image capture from the near-infrared camera  and the video camera , for making suitable color adjustment to the images from the near-infrared camera , for making frame rate adjustments to the video camera  image, and for combining the two images for superimposed display on the display .","The systems described above have numerous surgical applications. For example, the system may be deployed as an aid to cardiac surgery, where it may be used intraoperatively for direct visualization of cardiac blood flow, for direct visualization of myocardium at risk for infarction, and for image-guided placement of gene therapy and other medicinals to areas of interest. The system may be deployed as an aid to oncological surgery, where it may be used for direct visualization of tumor cells in a surgical field or for image-guided placement of gene therapy and other medicinals to an area of interest. The system may be deployed as an aid to general surgery for direct visualization of any function amenable to imaging with fluorescent dyes, including blood flow and tissue viability. In dermatology, the system may be used for sensitive detection of malignant cells or other skin conditions, and for non-surgical diagnosis of dermatological diseases using near-infrared ligands and\/or antibodies.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["200","204","208","210","212","210","208","204","200","200","200","200","200","200"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"],"b":["300","302","304","306","308","310","312","314","316","318","320","322","324","326","302","304","306","310","308","306","322","306","320","310","306","324","326"]},"The imaging system  for use as an endoscopic tool may further include a first lens\/collimator  for the visible light source, a second lens\/collimator  for the excitation light source , an optical coupler  that combines the excitation light and the visible light, a dichroic mirror , and an endoscope  having a first cavity  and a second cavity .","The first lens\/collimator , the second lens\/collimator , and the optical coupler  serve to combine the excitation light and the visible light into a single light source. This light source is coupled into the first cavity  through the dichroic mirror . In one embodiment, the dichroic mirror  preferably provides fifty percent reflection of light having wavelengths from 400 nm to 700 nm, in order to optimize an intensity of visible light that reaches the video camera  after illuminating the surgical field  and passing through the dichroic mirror  on its return path to the video camera . The dichroic mirror  also preferably has greater than ninety percent reflection of wavelength from the excitation light source , such as between 700 nm and 785 nm, so that these wavelengths are not transmitted to the cameras ,  after reflecting off the surgical field. Using this arrangement, visible and excitation light sources ,  share the first cavity  of the endoscope with the return light path for a visible light image and an emission wavelength image.","The second cavity  of the endoscope  may be provided for insertion of a tool, such as an optical tool like a laser for irradiation of a site in the surgical field , or a physical tool like an instrument for taking a biopsy of tissue within the surgical field. By combining the optical paths of the imaging system  within a single cavity of the endoscope , the combined gauge of the first cavity  for imaging and the second cavity  may be advantageously reduced.","The imaging system  may instead be used with a laparoscope. Typically, a laparoscope is inserted into a body cavity through an incision, as distinguished from an endoscope which is inserted through an existing body opening such as the throat or rectum. A laparoscope has a different form factor than an endoscope, including different dimensional requirements. Furthermore, use of a laparascope involves at least one additional step of making an incision into a body so that the laparascope may be inserted into a body cavity. The laparoscope may be used with any of the imaging systems described above, and the imaging system  of  in particular would provide the benefit of a narrower bore for illumination and imaging optics.","It will further be appreciated that the imaging system  may be used to simplify imaging devices other than endoscopes and laparoscopes, such as by providing an integrated, coaxial illumination and image capture device using the techniques described above.","In addition to the surgical applications noted above in reference to , the endoscopic tool of  may be used for direct visualization of malignant or pre-malignant areas within a body cavity, or for image-guided placement of gene therapy and other medicinals to an area of interest within the body cavity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["402","402","404","404","404","402","402","404"]},"The images may be displayed separately as the visible light tissue image  and the near-infrared image . Or the images ,  may be combined into a combined image  by the image processing unit described above. The combined image  may then be used as an aid to the procedures described above, or to any other surgical or diagnostic procedure that might benefit from the dye-based imaging techniques described herein.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0100"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["502","504","506","508","510","512","520","522","524","526","528","530","532","502","520","534","536","538"]},"The couplers, more specifically the visible light coupler , the excitation light coupler , the mixed light output coupler , the image source coupler , the visible light image coupler , and the near infrared image coupler  may contain a set screw or other mechanism for securely engaged suitable hardware in a proper position and orientation, and with appropriate light shielding, suitable for use in the imaging system. Additional adaptors may be provided for mating hardware, such as endoscope fibers, to the mixer  and separator .","The light mixer  combines a visible light source, which may be NIR-depleted and\/or IR-depleted, or depleted in some other wavelength range for a particular application, with an excitation source, which may be a NIR or IR fluorescence excitation light source or some other light source selected for a particular imaging application. The dichroic mirror  may be selected to transmit light from the excitation light source and reflect light from the visible light source, so that a combined light source is passed through the focusing lens  into the input  of the endoscope . While efficient dichroic mirrors may be manufactured that reflect visible light while transmitting light of other wavelengths, it is also possible to construct a dichroic mirror that transmits the visible light instead. Other techniques may combine filters and partial or total reflecting surfaces to similarly combine a depleted white light source with an excitation light source.","The image separator  separates the anatomical, or visible light image from a functional image, such as a near-infrared image captured from a dye within the field of view of the scope . The images may be separated using, for example, a suitable designed dichroic mirror . A focusing lens  may be provided for the visible light image, and another focusing lens  may be provided for the near-infrared image, so that imaging hardware may be separately connected to each optical port and independently focused.","Thus it will be appreciated that, in one aspect, there is described a method for coupling an endoscope to imaging hardware. More specifically, the output  of the endoscope is connected to the image source coupler  of the image separator , and the other ports ,  of the image separator  are connected to suitable imaging hardware. The image provided from the image separator  to each piece of imaging hardware may then be independently focused using one of the focusing lenses , . Once each image has been focused, the images may be aligned by manually rotating the imaging hardware connectors within either or both of the visible light image coupler  and the near-infrared image coupler . This rotation and focusing may also be accomplished electro-mechanically through the addition of suitable hardware.","It should also be appreciated that the image separator  may be used independently, such as in the open systems described above, to provide an adaptable imaging system with readily interchangeable camera connections. The image separator  may also be used to connect to a number of different image sources, including an endoscope, a laparascope, a wide angle lens, a zoom lens, or any other optical source or lens. Similarly, the light source  may be used to provide readily interchangeable sources of light and replacement of malfunctioning parts. Thus there is provided, through the use of the image separator  and\/or light source , a modular medical imaging system that permits ready interchange and replacement of light sources and imaging hardware.","Such a modular system may be adapted to a wide range of applications. For example, additional optical components may be included, such as a zoom lens on the image source coupler . Each of the image separator  and the light source  may also be constructed to permit convenient access to the interior of the device for cleaning of dichroic mirrors or replacement of the mirrors according to changing imaging requirements. As another example, an X-Y alignment mechanism may be provided in one or more of the couplers from the image separator to permit alignment of the received image from the endoscope and manual registration of received images for each piece of imaging hardware.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0107"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":"600"},"A start program button , which may include a forward arrow or other graphical representation, may be used to begin capturing images from the imaging system. Text fields  may be provided to manage image files, including storing to a disk drive and recalling captured images. A browse feature may be provided to navigate an underlying file system of the computer running the interface . A naming convention may be employed with files. For example, visible light images may be stored with one suffix (e.g., *.col), while near-infrared or other functional images may be stored with the same file name and a different suffix. A merged visible and functional image may be stored with yet another suffix. Different suffixes or other naming conventions may also be used to distinguish still pictures from moving video.","A stop button  may stop an image acquisition, or stop a replay of a stored video. Activating this button may also close all open image windows. Switches  may be provided to direct one or more of the possible video feeds (i.e., visible light, diagnostic, or merged video) to a mass storage device such as a separate, and possibly external, CD, DVD, miniDV, tape drive, or other device with storage speed and capacity suitable for storing real-time video. While only one diagnostic image switch is depicted, numerous diagnostic images may be captured simultaneously using different dyes and wavelengths, and a user may select which images to store using the switches .","The interface  may provide a number of features for capturing and managing snapshots, either still pictures or moving video, during an imaging session. A slider  may be provided for selecting among sequential snapshots. A snap save button  may be used to store a picture or a segment of video. Footswitches may also be provided and associated with the interface  to provide hands-free operation of the imaging system during a procedure such as a surgery. The snap save button , may be associated with a first one of such a group of footswitches. A snap recall button  may recall a stored snap image. A cine save button  may be provided to save a cine image (a continuous, time-lapse movie), and this button  may be associated with a second one of the group of footswitches. A slider  may be provided in which a user may specify a time interval for capturing cine images, e.g., once every 500 ms. A cine recall button  may be used to recall stored cine images. The cine images may also be replayed in a sequential loop using a movie button  that toggles between movie and slide show modes of the display. A slideshow index slider  may be used to select among a series of sequential cine images. A cine quantify button  may be provided to permit quantification of a specific cine image. This button may initiate quantification of an entire image, or present a new window in which specific regions of an image may be selected. The resulting statistics describing, for example, pixel values, may be displayed in a cine statistics box  within the interface . A cine stop button  is provided, and associated with a first one of the foot switches, to stop displaying images in the cine mode. A snap stop button  is provided, and associated with a first one of the footswitches, to permit a user to stop snap recording. Stopping the snap in this manner may return the image rendering to live images. A snap quantify button  is also provided, similar to the cine quantify button , to capture statistics and display them in a snap statistics box  within the interface . Live statistics may also be provided in a live quantify statistics box . Current values, such as pixel values, may be displayed in another box .","A number of controls may be provided in the interface  to control visual rendering of the images. For example, an opacity slider  may be provided to control mixing of a diagnostic and visible light image. The mixing may be specified with a numerical value specifying a percentage opacity for the diagnostic image. Manual image controls , such as brightness, contrast, and gamma, may be provided for manual control of the diagnostic image. The manual image controls may be overridden with an automatic button . Exposure time for the diagnostic imaging hardware may be manually controlled using an exposure time slider . Camera gain may be manually controlled using a camera gain slider . A diagnostic image pseudocolor control  may be provided to permit a user to select a color in which the diagnostic image, or emission wavelength image, is rendered. The control  may be represented within the interface  by a square that is filled in with the selected color for pseudocoloring. The control  may be linked to a color palette that includes a number of different colors from which a user may select, or a color wheel or other continuous color spectrum from which a user may point and click a desired color. These or other techniques may be used to permit custom selection of the diagnostic image color. Thus a user may vary the diagnostic image color so that it sharply contrasts with naturally occurring colors in the visible light image. Lime green is a useful color for high contrast with living tissue in surgical or other medical imaging applications. Lime green may thus be a default color selection for the pseudocolor of the emission wavelength image, however, any pseudocolor may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0107","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"b":["700","700","702","704","706","708"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0109","num":"0114"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["800","802","804","804","802","806","806","806","808","810","806","812","806","800","806","800","806"]},"It will be appreciated that the above systems and functionality are merely illustrative, and that other dyes, imaging hardware, and optics may be usefully deployed with the imaging systems described herein. For example, an endoscopic tool may employ a still-image imaging system for diagnostic photography within a body cavity. Or any of the imaging systems may be used as described above with excitation and\/or emission wavelengths in the far-red spectrum. Through minor adaptations that would be clear to one of ordinary skill in the art, the system could be configured to image two or more functions (i.e., tumor and blood flow) at the same time that a visible light image is captured by associating each function with a different dye having a different emission wavelength. Non-medical applications exist for the imaging system. For example, dyes in a solution form may be sprayed on a mechanical component to identify oxidation, surface defects, or the like. Dyes could also be used to track gas, steam, or air flow through a pressurized system, and in particular to identify leaks around fittings and valves. These and other arrangements and adaptations of the subject matter discussed herein are intended to fall within the scope of the invention.","Thus, while the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail, various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. It should be understood that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative, and not in a limiting sense, and that the following claims should be interpreted in the broadest sense allowable by law."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["The invention will be appreciated more fully from the following further description thereof, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
