---
title: Archery bow steady rest and holder
abstract: An Archery Bow Steady Rest and Holder for hunting which holds a bow in a ready vertical position in front of the archer with arrow nocked while waiting for game, and which also supports and steadies the bow and user's arm while drawing, aiming and firing. It comprises a swiveling support boom attached at its proximal end to a vertical surface, with vertical support elements attached near the distal end of the boom, and a bow attaching device holding the bow at the riser between the hand grip and upper limb. The bow may be freed from the support system simply by lifting it.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06948690&OS=06948690&RS=06948690
owner: 
number: 06948690
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20030530
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This application claims benefit of Provisional Appl. 60\/385,843 filed Jun. 5, 2002.","Great strides have been made to make bow hunting available to the general public. With the advent of compound bows and modern sights even a rank beginner with a bow can participate in this increasingly popular sport. However, the compound bow and the attached equipment are heavier than the old bows, and holding the bow steady at arm's length while aiming and firing can be a problem, particularly for people with lesser physical strength. This problem is compounded in a hunting situation where the hunter may have to wait after drawing the bow for the game to move to a favorable spot or position before firing. This invention addresses the problem for hunting from a tree stand or a ground blind by providing a steady rest for the bow which steadies the bow while being aimed and fired. It does for the bow what a shooting rest does for rifle hunting. In addition, the bow rest holds the bow in a ready position with no effort from the user while waiting for game to appear.","In the prior art various types of devices have been proposed which have elements similar to the present invention. These fall into two broad categories: bow holders that hold the bow in a ready position while waiting for game to appear but require that the bow be removed before firing, and bow rests that steady the bow during firing and may also act as a bow holder.","A large number of bow holders have been described. U.S. Pat. No. 5,806,508 to Stempien et al is a pertinent example which discloses a bow holder having means to attach the holder to a vertical surface, a swivel device which holds a support and attachment device (knot) which holds the bow where the bow string joins the bow. The single support string of this device does not prevent the bow from rotating while suspended. The bow becomes disconnected from the support and attachment device when the bow is drawn, and thus provides no support for the bow's weight or the archer's arm while aiming and firing.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,059,240 to Gorsuch discloses a bow holder having means to attach the holder to a vertical surface, a swivel support which holds an L-shaped bracket which holds the bow where the bow string joins the bow. The bow must be removed from the support to draw and fire the bow.","U.S. Pat. No. 6,244,556 to Carillo et al discloses a bow holder which attaches to a seat bottom having a base plate, a platform with slot to support the bottom end of the bow, and a prop to hold the bow in a vertical position.","Examples of bow rests which steady the bow during the drawing, aiming and firing follow. U.S. Pat. No. 6,029,643 to Golfieri discloses a bow rest having a base which the archer stands on, a vertical support and a horizontal support attached to the vertical support. The horizontal support attaches to the bow at the threaded bore in the bow's riser ordinarily used for a stabilizer. Because of the size and lack of portability this device is not adaptable to hunting.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,509,400 to Chalin discloses a bow rest having a vertical, telescoping rod attached to a horizontal support which attaches to the riser of the bow through the threaded stabilizer port. The lower portion of the vertical telescoping rod supports the weight of the bow and archer's arm by resting on the user's foot. This device does not act as a bow holder.","A number of steady rests have been disclosed which do not attach to the bow, but steady the arm through bracing from some other part of the body or clothing. U.S. Pat. No. 5,351,867 to Vest is a representative example. It describes an arm steady rest which attaches to the belt or clothing of the user and provides an adjustable support to the forearm by means of two telescoping elements. This device does not act as a bow holder.","The present invention is directed to an archery bow rest which also acts as a bow holder, and is suitable for bow hunting from a ground blind or a tree stand. It consists of a swiveling support boom attached to a vertical surface and support elements that attach to the swiveling support boom at the top and to the bow at the bottom. This support structure holds the bow while waiting for game to appear and supports and steadies the bow and the user's arm when aiming and shooting. The bow is attached to the support structure at the riser in such a way that it does not interfere with the actions of the limbs or bowstring, and thus does not affect the trajectory of the arrow. The bow is also easily removed from the support structure if game is outside the range of movement of the Archery Bow Steady Rest and Holder.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved archery bow rest that greatly improves shooting accuracy by eliminating shaking of the bow.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved archery bow rest and holder that is practical for bow hunting.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved archery bow rest and holder that is light, portable, and easily set up.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved archery bow rest and holder that is inexpensive to make and easy to use.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved archery bow rest that holds the bow in a ready position without effort or attention from the user, and from which the bow does not have to be removed to draw and fire.","These and other objects and advantages of the present invention will be fully apparent from the following description, when taken in connection with the annexed drawings.","The preferred embodiment of the present invention  being used as a steady rest is shown in . Its major parts are a vertical member , straps  that attach the vertical member to a vertical surface (usually a tree ), a swivel  mounted boom  which allows horizontal movement and which bears the weight of bow and user's arm, a support element separator , two support elements , and a bow attaching device .","Referring now to the drawings in greater detail,  shows a schematic view of the present invention  holding a bow. The vertical member  of  is attached to a vertical surface such as a tree  by conventional straps  which encircle the tree  and are secured by any conventional fastener such as buckles or ratchet fasteners (ratchet straps) . While two straps are shown in , it should be understood that any means of attachment may be used as long as the bow rest is securely fastened to the vertical support .","For convenience in carrying and setup, the straps  are secured to a vertical member  by any conventional means such as loops . A boom  is attached to the vertical member  by means of a swivel  comprised of a plurality of tubes alternately attached the boom  and vertical member , again by any conventional means, and a pin  which threads through the tubes binding them together. The swivel  allows the boom to rotate about the vertical axis of the pin  and to be separated from the vertical member  for ease of installation of . Alternatively, the boom  can be permanently attached to a swivel  and vertical member .","In the preferred embodiment two vertical support elements  are attached to the boom  by means of a vertical support element separator . The lower ends of the vertical support elements are attached to the two end eyelets of a bow attaching device . The bow attaching device  holds a bow at the top of the riser  where it flares or projects out to form a pocket for the bow's upper limb .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["6","7","26","13","6","8","16","13","13","8","14","8","7","8","6","9","8","7","7","6","6"]},"The preferred vertical support elements  are strings, but any elements that will support the bow attaching device  can be used.","As shown in  a bow attaching device  is connected to the vertical support elements . This bow attaching device engages the bow at the top of the riser  where it flares or projects to receive the upper limb  (the riser's upper limb pocket). The preferred shape of the bow attaching device is shown in detail in . At each end of the bow attaching device is an eyelet  to which the vertical support elements  attach by any conventional means. In the middle of the bow attaching device  is a notch  whose width is greater than the width of the narrower part of the riser but narrower than the flare or projection of the upper limb pocket at the top of the riser . When a bow is in the bow attaching device the notch supports the bow by engaging the two sides of the riser  where it flares or projects to form the upper limb pocket, but the bow can be released from the notch  simply by lifting the bow. The bow attaching device  can be covered with a sound deadening material such as, but not limited to, rubber to make removal of the bow silent.","The preferred vertical support elements (strings)  and form of the bow attaching device  shown in  are not meant to be exclusive. Any combination of a support system that does not interfere with the action of either the bow's limbs or bowstring, and a bow attachment system which holds a bow in an approximately vertical position at the riser between the hand grip and upper limb of a bow or a modified bow, which also allows the bow to be freed from the attachment system by lifting the bow will suffice. A person skilled in the trade could design many devices which meet these requirements. Examples of alternative methods of attaching a bow to the support system are shown in , ,  and .","To facilitate hanging certain bows in the Archery Bow Steady Rest and Holder the simple bracket shown in  consisting of a U shaped bracket , a threaded rod  and two cylindrical nuts  may be installed on the bow as in  to provide pin projections  that engage the bow attaching device  to support the bow. Alternatively a small hole could be drilled through the riser  below the upper limb pocket to accept a threaded rod  and cylindrical nuts to provide pin projections  that engage the bow attachment device  to support the bow.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 7"],"b":["22","23","15","20"]},"Another possible embodiment of the present invention is shown in . Vertical support of a bow attaching device is provided by a rigid \u201cL\u201d shaped rod  whose long end attached to sleeve . This sleeve slips over the support boom  and is secured with thumb screw . Two tines  separated laterally and extending from the short end of the \u201cL\u201d support the bow by engaging the flare or projection of the upper limb pocket as previously described, or by engaging pins  on a pin modified bow. For strength and to eliminate bounce a triangulating brace  is recommended.","As shown in , when a user wants to use the bow rest, he\/she first attaches the vertical member  to a vertical surface  by means of straps  and ratchets . Next the riser of the bow  is slipped into the notch  () in bow attaching device . The bow should hang in the bow rest  high enough so that with the weight of the bow and the user's arm supported, the bow aims slightly above the elevation of any anticipated aiming point. After nocking an arrow the bow hangs in a ready position without any effort on the part of the hunter while waiting for game.","When game appears, the archer takes hold of the bow and string, draws the bow, and the bow rest  steadies the bow while aiming and firing. Since the weight of the bow and the user's arm is borne by the bow rest  sighting is more accurate. When the bow rest is properly installed a slight downward pressure is actually needed during sighting.","There is a somewhat limited ability to aim the bow in the vertical plane while in the Archery Bow Steady Rest and Holder, though some vertical flexibility results from stretching of the straps  () that hold the steady rest to the vertical surface . Very little vertical flexibility is needed because the archer can move his body to provide vertical adjustment as one would when using a rifle with a shooting rest. If desired, greater vertical flexibility may be accomplished by: (1) making the boom  somewhat flexible, (2) using springy material for horizontal rod  of the vertical support element separator  (), or (3) using stretchable vertical support elements .","Although the Archery Bow Steady Rest and Holder and the method of using the same according to the present invention has been described in the forgoing specification with considerable details, it is to be understood that modifications may be made to the invention which do not exceed the scope of the appended claims and modified forms of the present invention done by others skilled in the art to which the invention pertains will be considered infringements of this invention when those modified forms fall within the claimed scope of this invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT","SETUP AND USE OF THE ARCHERY BOW STEADY REST AND HOLDER"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 8"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
