---
title: Methods and systems for incrementally changing text representation
abstract: To reduce required display space, a text segment is reduced in size by successively eliminating portions of the text segment in an animated fashion. The reduction is thus visually represented in a way that maintains recognizability of the text segment, even if the final representation of the text does not carry a full meaning and/or is not independently comprehensible, because of the impression left in the mind of the user by the animated reduction of the text segment. The reduction may include reducing a size of text of the text segment and/or a spacing between characters of the text segment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07650562&OS=07650562&RS=07650562
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 07650562
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030221
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"p":["This non-provisional application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/357,850, entitled \u201cZooming Interfaces For Sensemaking, Visualization, and Navigation\u201d which was filed on Feb. 21, 2002, and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.","The following related U.S. patent applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety:\n\n","1. Field of Invention","This invention relates to a method and system for incremental multi-level change of text.","2. Description of Related Art","As the amount of information in our lives continues to grow, people want new and effective ways of finding and using it. \u201cSensemaking\u201d is a process of gathering, understanding, and using information for a purpose. Sensemaking tasks often involve searching for relevant documents and then extracting and reformulating information for better understanding and utilization. Making a report is an example of a sensemaking task. A sensemaker performing this task has many interrelated and possibly interwoven subtasks. One way or another, a sensemaker gathers information, identifies and extracts portions of it, organizes these for efficient use, and ultimately incorporates the information in a work product with the required logical and rhetorical structure.","In difficult sensemaking tasks, sensemakers often employ intermediate representations to make the information available for repeated manipulation and visualization. Paper is often the medium of choice for external representations. For example, note cards may be used to keep short notes on a subject. The cards can be organized in groups, sorted, and progressively reorganized as more information is gathered.","At some phases of the work, sensemakers may spread their note cards out on a large table for ready access and overview. Small groups doing sensemaking, brainstorming, and design tasks often put note card-sized memos on large white boards or the like when organizing and sharing information.","For many sensemaking tasks, text is the main representation used to carry information. Although displays vary considerably in size\u2014from watch and handheld displays, to desktop displays, to wall-sized displays, for example\u2014there is always competition for space. When these tasks are performed on a computer, even high-resolution desktop displays can show only one or two pages of text. To put more textual information objects on a display of fixed size requires some way of reducing the required amount of space\u2014at least temporarily\u2014for each of the textual information objects.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,867,164 to Bornstein et al. discloses an interactive document summarization system that allows the user to control how much of the original document is included in the summary. In this system, the summary of the document may be narrowed down to only one sentence, which facilitates rapid review of documents.","In summarization, the goal of representation reduction is to identify the most salient information and to create more meaningful representations for text objects as they are given reduced space. The reduced representation for summarization is intended as a stand-in for the longer text and should be comprehensible, correct, salient, and representative. In other words, such summarization techniques require that text need carry a full meaning and need to be comprehensible or strictly correct. Therefore, the summarized information still occupies significant areas of the workspace.","There is another type of technique called semantic text zooming. In semantic text zooming, when text is visibly small it appears only as a title, and as the user zooms in, the text expands to include an abstract. Further zooming reveals first an outline with short text descriptions, then finally the full text. An example of semantic text zooming is disclosed by Perlin et al. (Perlin and Fox (1993). Pad: An Alternative Approach to the Computer Interface, Proceedings of 1993 ACM SIGGRAPH Conference, 57-64). However, such semantic text zooming requires pre-defined levels of abstraction.","In this invention, unlike prior art systems, text need not maintain \u201ctruth,\u201d e.g., it need not carry a full meaning and need not be comprehensible or strictly correct. Instead, it merely needs to be visually recognizable. Recognizability is supported by the combination of selecting distinguishable words and\/or by the use of animated visual effects.","One of the problems in effectively representing sensemaking is space. For example, most computer displays are only large enough to show one or two pages of text at a readable size. This limitation is like telling sensemakers using note cards or the like that they can reorganize and reuse the material however they want, but that they must keep all their cards stacked on no more than one or two sheets of paper, or telling sensemakers using electronic media that they can scroll, pan, zoom and\/or turn pages, but that they can never see more than one or two pages at once. Unlike tabletops and whiteboards, which have a large space and in which space is immediately physically and visually accessible, this limitation is quite significant in its effects on external cognition using computer displays, projectors and the like.","For many sensemaking tasks, text is the main representation used to carry information. To put more textual information objects on a display of fixed size requires some way of reducing the required amount of space\u2014at least temporarily\u2014for each of the information objects. One way to reduce the amount of the text object is to simply shrink the size of text. For example, as shown in , the text in a sentence  may be minimized, reducing the text size of the sentence . However, even though sentence  occupies only about \u2153 of the space required by the sentence , this strategy rapidly sacrifices the legibility of the object.  shows another example in which the amount of display space is reduced by reducing the length of a sentence. In this example, the reduction is accomplished by simply picking the first few words, and discarding the others. This may not lead to particularly meaningful representations.","Another possible technique is to replace an image of the text with a fixed representation, such as an iconic representation, representing a text file or folder. This technique has the following problems. With such a fixed representation, there is no representation of content. Although some systems using this technique offer a user an ability to provide a title for an icon, the title must be created manually. In addition, there is a rigid trade-off of representation versus size. Because there are only two sizes in the representation (i.e., either the text at full size or the icon at small size), there is no range of intermediate representations to provide intermediate options for trading off recognizability, or the amount of useful information conveyed, against the amount of available space.","As another possible technique, in order to reduce the amount of space that a text object, such as a multiple sentence object, occupies, the sentences can be summarized so that the number of letters can be reduced while the meaning of the sentences is still maintained. In summarization, the general goal is to identify the most salient information. A reduced representation for summarization is intended as a substitute for the longer text and should be comprehensible, correct, salient, and representative.","The summarizing techniques described above are typically not adequate for sensemaking since the summary of a given sentence still covers a considerable area on a display.","This invention takes advantage of the fact that, in sensemaking, text need not always carry a full meaning independently, e.g., there is a weaker requirement of truth, and that text need not always be understandable out of context or strictly correct according to grammar or spelling. It can be enough if the \u201csummary\u201d remains recognizable as it shrinks, without requiring that the smaller form try to carry the entire meaning.","Methods and systems for dynamically incrementally changing text representation according to this invention reduce a number of original sentences to a predetermined number of sentences (e.g., one sentence), reduce a number of words in the sentence to a predetermined number of words (e.g., one word), and may reduce a number of letters in the predetermined number of words. These steps need not happen in order and can be combined freely. Furthermore, the above-described steps may be reversed to retrieve the original sentence or sentences from the reduced representation. The change in representation may occur via one or more intermediate representations, and may be automatic in the sense that, once started, the representations are successively displayed without requiring input from a user.","Text size reduction and\/or reduction of the spacing between characters may be combined with the textual content reduction to produce a better representation for an object for a given size constraint. Visualization effects such as animation may also be used to present the sequence of the reduction and\/or enlargement.","Text reduction according to the invention creates a sequence of textual representations for a text object by combining textual content reduction with text size and\/or spacing reduction, and\/or with animation, as the area allocated to the text object decreases. An object of this invention is to increase or maintain the recognizability of information represented by the text as the size of the object is decreased. Animated transitions may be used to provide continuity during the changing size constraints (i.e., shrinking or enlarging the object) as the representation changes. Exemplary approaches for changing representations are described below.","First, when a passage of text under consideration has a plurality of sentences, in order to reduce the amount of text area, the sentences may be reduced to a smaller set of sentences, until there is only one sentence, for example. This sentence is treated as a set of words. The set of words may be gradually reduced to increasingly smaller sets of words. At each level of text reduction, the space may be reduced by a predetermined amount, such as about 50%. This process may be repeated until there is a predetermined number of words, such as one word. This word may be treated as a set of letters. The set of letters may be reduced to increasingly smaller sets of letters until only a few letters, possibly one letter, remain.","In addition to reducing the content of the text object, the text size, e.g., the font size, of the object, and\/or the spacing between characters, can also be reduced. Because the content can only be reduced in discrete increments such as letters, words, lines, and sentences, the best representation for a text object may combine both content reduction and font and\/or spacing reduction in order to fit a given size constraint.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"200"},"For example, the second representation  displays three words, \u201ctraffic,\u201d \u201cfatalities\u201d and \u201cpedestrian,\u201d that are identified as being more important than others, e.g., by the scoring methods described below. The representation  thus requires approximately 50% of the original text object . The third representation  displays two words, \u201ctraffic\u201d and \u201cfatalities,\u201d and the fourth representation  displays only one word, \u201cfatalities.\u201d Then, the representation  is replaced with a word , \u201cfatal,\u201d that is a stem of \u201cfatalities.\u201d The last representation  in the sequence removes some or all of the vowels from \u201cfatal,\u201d resulting in the characters \u201cftl.\u201d","During reduction of text objects, each text object could shrink continuously in font size until it is the smallest legible letter size within the allocated space, before the number of words used in the text objects starts to reduce, or while it is being reduced. For example, with a display size of 1024\u00d7768 pixels, when the text size becomes the smallest legible text size, which may be an 8-point font, the text objects may shift down to the next level of representation using an animated transition. Moreover, spaces between letters or other types of formatting may be decreased or removed prior to or during the reduction of the text object area.","In a zooming context, transitions between representations may be animated to create a sense of continuity of identity. For example, each representation may \u201cmorph\u201d into the next one. In the example shown in , a cross dissolve , which dissolves one object while making another object appear, is used to animate each transition.","In the example described above, animation is used to show the transitions. However, the animation may be omitted. As another option, a user may be able to control the level of reduction. As yet another option, multiple steps of reduction can be independently initiated by the user by, for example, clicking on a text object separately for each reduction.","The visual presentation (e.g. color, font, background, etc.) of the text may be altered in the final representation, and\/or any representation between the first and final representations may be differentiated from the visual presentation of the original sentence, to indicate that the representation has been reduced. Similarly, a graphic symbol, such as an icon or sign, may be used to indicate that the text has been reduced.","Another aspect of the combination of content reduction and font reduction is that as the space allocated to a particular information object is reduced, it may become impossible to present any reasonable representation at all. One response to this is to shift to higher levels of aggregation for the summary. Thus, instead of presenting a reduced representation (\u201csummary\u201d) for each object in a group, a reduced representation standing for the entire group can be produced.","Similarly, when reduced representations are created for multiple objects at once, it can be visually disturbing to have different font sizes across multiple objects. As a result, it may be important to coordinate the font size reduction across all represented objects.","Exemplary details of how content may be reduced are described below. In the following example, it is assumed that the starting point for representation reduction is a relatively small section of text, such as a paragraph. The determination of the section of the text may be done in various ways. For example, the section may be a paragraph or a predetermined number of sentences from a paragraph. The section of the text may be determined by a user by, for example, manually selecting it from a group of sentences. The original text may be electronic data, such as an electronic document prepared using word processing software or the like, text created using web page creation software or the like, or a document digitized by scanning or the like. The original text may also have been entered manually by the user.","The representation reduction creates a sequence of text representations, each succeeding representation reducing the display space requirements of the preceding representation by, for example, approximately 50%. At any point in the process, the reduction of a given representation may be based on various criteria, as described in detail below. Reduction occurs by applying these criteria, and determining the best of the resulting representation that meets display size requirements of the next level of reduction. The process then repeats until the representation is as small as desired\u2014maybe a single word, word stem, or character.","First, the text objects are parsed into sentences. Sentences may be given scores which take into account sentence length and\/or order. A simple version of an exemplary algorithm gives priority to topic or beginning sentences and eliminates sentences from the end at each level until approximately half of the text is eliminated.","Next, one or more analyses may be performed on the representative sentences when or before word selection begins. Words in the sentence may be labeled to indicate whether they are in the subject or the predicate. Words may also be labeled to indicate whether or not they are modifiers or part of a modifying phrase. In addition, the length (number of letters) of each word may be obtained. The order number of each word in the sentence may also be obtained. In addition, the word frequency of each word in the original text may be obtained (for example, the word frequency is \u201c2\u201d if the word appears twice in the original text).","Scores may be assigned to words, and subsets of words that have a high score may be searched. Any subset of words that is longer than, for example, 55% of the previous representation may be eliminated unless it consists of only one word. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art, the assignment of scores to words can be done in many different ways. Examples of criteria for assigning scores may be:\n\n","Below are some examples of possible rules for scoring words:\n\n","The reduction of letters of a word may begin when there is only a predetermined number of words remaining, e.g., one word. One or more operations may be performed on the word for reducing the number of letters in the word. At each stage of reduction, the number of letters may be reduced by about half (e.g., approximately 50%). This is repeated until there is just a predetermined number of letters, e.g., one letter, left in the word. Assignment of scores to letters can be done in many different ways. Below are some examples of basic criteria for reducing the number of letters in a word:\n\n","It should be appreciated that some words may be reduced in length before any words are eliminated.","An example of incremental multi-level reduction of text is described below in conjunction with the following sentences:\n\n","A selection is made from among the sentences, which may be based on various factors in any desired combination. For example, the first sentence may always be selected. As another example, e.g., in a case where the first sentence does not have a high score because the first sentence is short or has only stop words, for example, the second sentence or another sentence may be selected. In the present example, it is assumed that the first sentence is selected by virtue of being first, and that the second sentence is eliminated. Therefore, the following sentence remains:\n\n","Next, the selected sentence is analyzed as shown in .  shows a table  according to an exemplary embodiment in which each word in the sentence is identified and analyzed. In , column  lists each word in the sentence, and column  indicates whether each word is in the subject or in the predicate. Column  indicates whether each word is a modifier. Column  shows the number of letters of each word. Column  indicates the order number of each word, i.e., in what order each word appears in the sentence. Column  shows the frequency of appearance of each word in the original document. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the factors represented in columns , ,  and  are simply examples of factors that may be used in the comparative analysis of the words in the sentences, and that there may be more or fewer factors used in the analysis.","In the analysis shown in , the word \u201cmembrane,\u201d for example, is determined to be in the subject and to not be a modifier. It has eight letters and appears third in the sentence. The word appears twice in the original paragraph.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0083"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["400","300","410","420","430","440","450"]},"It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the tables shown in  are used for illustrative purposes only, and there may be only one stage, or more than two stages, that performs calculations of tables shown in .","The first reduction of words may be targeted to produce a string of about half, for example, of the number of the letters in the sentence. In this example, because the original sentence consists of 117 characters, including spaces, the reduced string should produce a string of no more than 58 characters, including spaces. Therefore, the top two candidates of different combinations may include:\n\n","In the first iteration, the first candidate is selected although either candidate could be accepted because of the equal scores. Various rules could be employed here that would choose either the longer or shorter of the two representations. The rules could also be employed to choose between the representations based on the available representations in later iterations.","The second iteration reduces the length to no longer than 27 letters, in this example. Therefore, the candidates after the second iteration become as follows:\n\n","After the second iteration, the second candidate is selected because it has a lower score. The third iteration reduces the length to no longer than 13 characters, in this example. Therefore, the candidates after the third iteration become as follows:\n\n","The last iteration reduces the length to one word having, for example, the higher score. Therefore, the word \u201cmembrane\u201d is selected since its individual score exceeds the individual score of the word \u201cplasma.\u201d","After the word is selected, the word is further shortened by, for example, removing vowels and eliminating any double letters. Therefore, the word \u201cmembrane\u201d becomes \u201cmbrn.\u201d","In the above example, two candidates were obtained at each step. However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the number of candidates may be one or more than two. In addition, if there are two or more candidates, a selection of the candidate may be performed automatically or manually by the user at any point during the reduction process.","Furthermore, in the above embodiment, a candidate having a longer length was selected. However, it will be appreciated that a candidate having a shorter length or higher or lower score may be selected instead, for example, based on a look-ahead to the quality of candidates in later iterations of reduction.","The above-described text zooming technique involves transitioning between levels of reduction in representation. As a result, moving from one level to another introduces the possibility for different types of transitions. A large number of types of transitions already exist for moving between image displays. Some examples include dissolves, wipes, page peels, slides, masks, stretches, and irises, and any of these types of transition may be used. Two other examples of transitions applied in a text zooming setting are the cross-dissolve and the cross-stretch shown in , respectively.","In the zooming example shown in , transitions between representations are animated to create a sense of continuity of identity. That is, each representation \u201cmorphs\u201d into the next one. In this example, a cross-dissolve is used to animate the transition. During zooming out (when objects shrink), each text representation shrinks continuously in size until it is no longer legible within the shrinking allocated space. Then, the display shifts down to the next representation using an animated transition.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["500","500","500","530","540","510","500","550","510","560","570","510","520","580","520"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0102"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},"In , a transition uses animation, for example, to move and shrink words between stages of representation. When the original paragraph  is reduced, the selected sentence  is restructured for presentation while the non-selected sentence  incrementally shrinks and finally disappears from view, to form sentence  for the next stage. This process is repeated until only one word remains\u2014the word \u201cplasma\u201d in this example. As with the other examples described above, the final word may be further reduced by, for example, removing vowels, double letters, and\/or the like.","In the examples described above, the reduction may start automatically when the original sentence or sentences are entered, or manually by the user by, for example, clicking on the original text. If the reduction is manually initiated by the user, the reduction may converge towards a certain position, such as the position of the beginning or middle of the original sentence or paragraph, or the position at which the user clicked, as the reduction progresses.","After the original text has been reduced, the full original text may be retrieved, either directly or incrementally, by reversing the reduction process by, for example, the user clicking on the reduced representation. If desired, rather than retrieving the full original text, the user may retrieve one of the intermediate versions of the text created during the reduction. The intermediate version to be retrieved may be predetermined by the user or may be determined by using an indicator indicating the intermediate versions of the reduction and allowing the user to freely select the intermediate versions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0106"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["700","700","710","720","730","740","750","760","770","780","790","780","700","800","810","820","801","811","821"]},"In general, the data source  can be any one of a number of different sources, such as a locally or remotely located computer sharing data, a scanner, or any other known or later-developed device that is capable of generating electronic data, such as a document. The data source  may also be a data carrier, such as a magnetic storage disc, CD-ROM or the like. Similarly, the data source  can be any suitable device that stores and\/or transmits electronic media data, such as a client or a server of a network, intranet, or the Internet, and especially the World Wide Web. Moreover, the data source  can be any known or later developed source that is capable of providing palletized data to the incremental text representation system  of this invention. In embodiments, the data source  is a data storage device, and connected to the incremental text representation system  via the communication link .","The data sink  can be any known or later-developed device that is capable of outputting or storing the processed electronic media data generated using the apparatus and method according to this invention, such as a display device, a printer, a copier or other image forming device, a facsimile device, a memory or the like. In addition, the data sink  can be any known or later developed device that is capable of receiving the enhanced text data output by the incremental text representation system  and either storing, transmitting, or displaying the text data. In embodiments, the data sink  is a display device, and is connected to the incremental multi-level text reduction system  over the communication link .","The user input device  may be any known or later-developed device that is capable of inputting data and\/or control commands to the incremental text representation system  via the communication link . The user input device  may include one or more of a keyboard, a mouse, a touch pen, a touch pad, a pointing device, or the like.","It will be appreciated that the data source , the data sink  and\/or the user input device  may be incorporated into the same physical unit as the incremental multi-level text reduction system , or may be separate entities as shown.","The communication link  can be any known or later-developed device or system for connecting the controller , the memory , the magnification changing circuit , the sentence selection circuit , the word selection circuit , the letter selection circuit , the representation circuit , and the input\/output interface . In addition, the communication links ,  and  can be any known or later-developed devices or systems for connecting the data source , the data sink  and the user input device , respectively, to the incremental text representation system . These communication links , ,  and  may be a direct cable or bus connection, a connection over a wide area network or local area network, a connection over an intranet, a connection over the Internet, or a connection over any other distributed processing network. Further, it should be appreciated that the communication links , ,  and  can be wireless connections over a network. The network can be a local area network, a wide area network, an intranet, the Internet, or any other known or later-developed other distributed processing and storage network.","Data from the data source  may be scanned text of a physical document, data created electronically using any known or later developed programming language and\/or computer software program, such as word processing software, and\/or a spreadsheet shown in a spreadsheet program, or any other known or later developed text data source.","The controller  controls data flow between components of the incremental text representation system . The memory  may serve as a buffer for information coming into or going out of the incremental text representation system , may store any necessary programs and\/or data for implementing the functions of the incremental text representation system , and\/or may store other types of data, such as reduced text objects at various stages of processing. In embodiments, the memory  stores the original sentence or sentences to be reduced, and each stage of representation of the text.","Alterable portions of the memory  may be, in various exemplary embodiments, implemented using static or dynamic RAM. However, the memory  can also be implemented using a floppy disk and disk drive, a writable or rewritable optical disk and disk drive, a hard drive, flash memory or the like.","The magnification changing circuit  changes magnification of text data prior to and\/or during each stage of representation. This may be done by, for example, reducing the letter size of sentences in the document by a predetermined percentage, such as about 30%, or to a predetermined size, such as a predetermined font size.","The sentence selection circuit  selects an appropriate number of sentences from a group of sentences. In various exemplary embodiments, the first sentence of the document may be selected. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that other ways to select the sentence or sentences are possible. For example, the sentence selection circuit  may assign weights to each sentence of a text object using a known or later-developed weighting method, and select the sentence with the highest weighted source.","The word selection circuit  analyzes the sentence selected by the sentence selection circuit . Then, the word selection circuit  reduces the number of words by a predetermined percentage, such as about 50%, preferably using an algorithm, such as that described above, which select words by counting the number of letters used in the sentence, performing sentence analysis, and assigning a score. This operation is preferably repeated until there are only a predetermined number of words, such as one word, remaining.","The letter selection circuit  reduces the number of letters used in the remaining word or words. This may be done by, for example, eliminating non-stems and vowels or by determining whether there is any standard abbreviation for the remaining word.","The representation circuit  may present the sentences, words and letters to the user, while their reduction is being processed. The representation circuit  may be capable of implementing one or more animations, such as the above-described cross. dissolve transition, the above-described cross-stretch transition, and\/or the like.","Moreover, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that, after an original text object has been reduced, the full original text may be retrieved, either directly or incrementally, by reversing the reduction process by, for example, the user clicking the current representation. That is, each stage of the reduction of the text object may be retrieved from the memory  in a reverse order. In other words, the most recent reduction of the text object is presented first. In addition, if desired, rather than retrieving the full original text, the user may retrieve one of the intermediate versions of the text created during the reduction. The intermediate versions to be retrieved may be predetermined by the user or may be determined by using an indicator indicating are allowed to select the intermediate versions of the reduction. During such retrieval of the text object, the representation circuit  can animate the retrieval of the text object at each level.","It should be appreciated that one or more of the devices\/circuits described above and shown in  may be optional. For example, the magnification changing circuit  and the representation circuit  may be excluded from some embodiments.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0089","num":"0122"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},"The process starts at step S and continues to step S. In step S, a text segment is obtained. It should be appreciated that more than one text segment can be obtained, and that the process may operated on a plurality of independent text segments simultaneously or in sequence. Continuing to step S, the sentences of the text segment are analyzed based on one or more predetermined criteria, and in step S, one or more sentences with a higher score are retained, while one or more sentences with a lower score are removed.","Continuing to step S, words in the retained sentence(s) are analyzed based on one or more predetermined criteria, and the process continues to step S. In step S, one or more words with a higher score are retained, while one or more words with a lower score are removed. Continuing to step , words in the retained word(s) are analyzed based on one or more predetermined criteria, and the process continues to step S. In step S, one or more letters with a higher score are retained, while one or more letters with a lower score are removed.","Continuing to step S, the text size and\/or spacing between characters of the text is reduced. Continuing to step S, the text segment reduction is animated. Continuing to step S, the process determines whether to increase the size of text that has been previously reduced, or is targeted for subsequent reduction, in order to retain recognizability of the text. This determination may be made based on, for example, the current and\/or expected font size of the text. For example, if the text is currently at a 12-point font size, it may be increased to an 18-point font size so that it is more recognizable, and\/or so that, if it is subsequently reduced again, it will not decrease to a font size at which it is unrecognizable. It will be appreciated that this step is typically performed only at a point in the process at which some level of text reduction has already occurred, and is typically performed substantially simultaneously with elimination of a portion of the text segment, so that the net effect is that the overall size of the text segment decreases even though the size of the individual remaining characters is increased.","If \u201cYES\u201d is the result of the determination of step S, then the process continues to step S and increases the text size, and then goes to step S. Otherwise, the process goes directly to step S.","In step S, a determination is made as to whether to continue the text reduction. If the reduction is to continue, the process returns to step S and repeats steps S-S. Otherwise, the process continues step S and ends.","It will be appreciated that, if there is only one sentence present at step S, then steps S and S maybe skipped.","It should be appreciated that the steps shown in  are described in the given order for illustration purposes, and in various exemplary embodiments, the steps may be performed in a different order, or concurrently with other steps. For example, the analysis and selection of sentences, words and\/or letters may be performed concurrently. Moreover, additional or fewer steps may also be used to implement the invention. In embodiments, the animation step may be omitted. In other embodiments, the text size and\/or spacing reduction may be omitted.","Those skilled in the art will recognize many applications for the present invention, including but not limited to display devices, such as systems that display applications of a personal computer, handheld devices, and the like. In short, the invention has application to any known or later developed system and device capable of selecting and incrementally changing the representation of text objects.","In the various exemplary embodiments outlined above, the incremental text representation system  can be implemented using a programmed general purpose computer. However, the system  can also be implemented using a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements, and ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hardware electronic or logic circuit, such as a discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device, such as PLD, PLA, FPGA or PAL, or the like. In general, any device, capable of implementing a finite state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts shown in , can be used to implement the system .","Each of the circuits or routines and elements of the various exemplary embodiments of the system  outlined above can be implemented as portions of a suitable programmed general purpose computer. Alternatively, each of the circuits and elements of the various exemplary embodiments of the system  outlined above can be implemented as physically distinct hardware circuits within an ASIC, or using FPGA, a PDL, a PLA or a PAL, or using discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements. The particular form each of the circuits and elements of the various exemplary embodiments of the incremental multilevel text reduction system  outlined above will take is a design choice and will be obvious and predictable to those skilled in the art.","Moreover, the various exemplary embodiments of the system  outlined above and\/or each of the various circuits and elements discussed above can each be implemented as software routines, managers or objects executing on a programmed general purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a microprocessor or the like. In this case, the various exemplary embodiments of the system  and\/or each or the various circuits and elements discussed above can each be implemented as one or more routines embedded in the communication network, as a resource residing on a server, or the like. The various exemplary embodiments of the system  and the various circuits and elements discussed above can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system  into a software and\/or hardware system, such as the hardware and software system of a web server or a client device.","While this invention has been described in conjunction with the exemplary embodiments outlined above, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the exemplary embodiments of the invention, as set forth above, are intended to be illustrative, not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"heading":["RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of this invention will be described in detail, with reference to the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
