---
title: Two-payload decoy device
abstract: The two-payload decoy device has a square outer case, containing a manifold/delay body assembly, a round payload assembly, and a square payload assembly. The square outer case is closed with an end cap. The manifold/delay body assembly is attached to the round payload assembly, which rests against the square payload assembly. Firing a standard impulse cartridge ignites a booster pellet and delay element in the manifold/delay body assembly. Gases flow through openings in the manifold/delay body assembly and down the corner cavities between the round payload assembly and the square case, pushing the square piston against the square payload, which separates the end cap from the case and ejects the square payload. The delay element burns for a specific time, and then ignites a round payload expulsion charge, which creates gases that push the round piston against the round payload, which dislodges a retaining ring, and ejects the round payload.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06857371&OS=06857371&RS=06857371
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06857371
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030619
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","EXAMPLES"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to decoy devices, more specifically, decoy devices having two payloads with a distinct time lapse between the expulsion of the first payload and the second payload.","2. Description of the Related Art","Decoy devices traditionally have one payload that is ejected by a standard impulse cartridge. Aircraft have a decoy device capacity limited by the number of dispenser holes of the aircraft. Increasing the number of dispenser holes in an aircraft is costly and impracticable. A decoy device, as currently known in the art, typically contains a much larger single payload than is necessary for decoying purposes. There is a need in the art to increase the number of payloads that are ejected by each decoy device, thereby increasing the decoying capacity of an aircraft, while using a single standard impulse cartridge and maintaining standard handling and loading procedures.","U.S. Pat. No. 5,623,113, Valembois, \u201cPyrotechnic Device for Launching at Least One Projectile\u201d, issued Apr. 22, 1997 discloses a device capable of ejecting more than one projectile. The device relies on the inherent ballistic characteristics of each projectile to determine the speed and timing of the launching of the projectile, which requires different calculations of the inherent ballistics for each type of projectile. Developing easily deployable devices with a reliable and predictable delay between the launching of successive payloads is difficult to do using the inherent ballistics of the projectiles, especially in working situations.","Consequently, there is a need in the art for a decoy device capable of deploying two payloads utilizing one standard impulse cartridge. Further, there is a need in the art for a decoy device having a distinct, easily predictable, and reliable time lapse between the expulsion of the first payload and the second payload.","Accordingly, it is an object of the invention to provide a decoy device capable of deploying two payloads.","It is a further object of the invention to provide for a decoy device having an easily predictable, reliable and distinct time lapse between the expulsion of the first payload and the second payload.","It is a further object of the invention to provide for a decoy device that doubles the payload capacity while retaining standard handling and loading procedures.","These and other objects and advantages of the invention will appear from the following detailed description, which together with the accompanying drawings discloses a preferred embodiment of the invention for purposes of illustration only.","A decoy device capable of deploying two payloads with a distinct and predictable time lapse between the first payload and second payload is disclosed. The device has a square outer case. The aft end of the square outer case is closed and has a cavity with a frangible bottom for a standard impulse cartridge. The forward end of the square outer case is open, which allows for insertion of internal components before an end cap seals the square outer case.","The internal components are comprised of a square payload assembly, a round payload assembly, and a manifold\/delay body assembly. The square payload assembly is comprised of a square payload and a square piston located inside the forward end of the outer case. The round payload assembly is located just aft of the square payload assembly and is comprised of a round inner case, a round payload, a retaining ring, and a round piston. The round inner case is attached at its aft end to the manifold\/delay body assembly. The manifold\/delay body assembly is comprised of a one-piece manifold\/delay body, located just aft of the round payload assembly, an expulsion charge for the round payload assembly, at least one booster pellet, and a delay element. The manifold\/delay body has a round end located in its forward section and a square end located in the aft. The round end is attached to the round inner case. The round end of the manifold\/delay body has a cavity that contains an expulsion charge for the round payload assembly. The square end fits the inside dimensions of the square outer case. The square end of the manifold\/delay body has holes located in each of the four corners of the square end. The square end of the manifold\/delay body additionally has at least two cavities. The first cavity contains at least one booster pellet. The second cavity contains a delay element. The second cavity has a hole in the bottom of the cavity, creating an opening between the cavity containing the delay element and the cavity in the round end of the manifold\/delay body that contains the expulsion charge for the round payload assembly. After the internal components are inserted in the square outer case and the end cap is attached, the manifold\/delay body assembly is staked in place by deforming the square outer case inward in each of the four corners just forward of where the square corners of the manifold\/delay body assembly are located inside the square outer case.","When a standard impulse cartridge located at the aft end of the square outer case is fired, the frangible bottom of the cavity ruptures, allowing gases from the standard impulse cartridge to ignite the at least one booster pellet and the delay element located in the first and second cavities of the square end of the manifold\/delay body. The gases from the impulse cartridge and the at least one booster pellet flow through the four holes in the square end of the manifold\/delay body, past the round end of the manifold\/delay body, around the round inner case, towards the square payload assembly. The gases from the standard impulse cartridge and at least one booster pellet cause the square piston to push against the square payload, which in turn pushes against the end cap, causing the end cap to separate from the outer case. The square payload is ejected and produces a decoying effect.","The delay element burns for a distinct time, ignites the round payload expulsion charge for the round payload assembly by transferring fire through the hole in the bottom of the delay element cavity. The round payload expulsion charge for the round payload assembly produces gases, pressure from which cause the round piston to push against the round payload, which then pushes against the retaining ring, causing it to separate from the round inner case. The second payload is then ejected and produces a decoying effect.","The invention disclosed is a two payload decoy device. Referring to , the decoy device has an outer square case , typically made of aluminum, which measures approximately 1 inch high by 1 inch wide by 8 inches long, which is a standard size designed to fit standard aircraft dispenser holes. It is obvious that the invention can be adapted to differing sizes and\/or geometries for applications other than aircraft, or differing sized dispenser holes in aircraft. The outer square case is open at the forward end of the case . An end cap , typically plastic, is attached at the open end  using methods known in the art. Preferably, the end cap is crimped in the open end of the square outer case and sealed with an O-ring. The opposite end of the square outer case, the aft end , is closed, and has a cavity  designed to accommodate a standard impulse cartridge (not shown). Preferably, the standard impulse cartridge is a BBU-35\/B or CCU-145\/A impulse cartridge. The bottom of the cavity  has a frangible thin disk area  separating the standard impulse cartridge from the interior of the outer case  of the decoy device.","The internal components of the device are inserted into the open end  of the square outer case  prior to attaching the end cap . The Internal components include a square payload assembly , a round payload assembly , and a manifold\/delay body assembly . The square payload assembly  is comprised of a square payload  located inside the forward portion of the square outer case  adjacent to the end cap , and a square piston , which fits the inner dimensions of the outer case , and is located just aft of the square payload . Just aft of the square payload assembly  is the round payload assembly , which is comprised of a round inner case  which fits inside the square outer case , creating open space  between the round inner case  and the corners of the square outer case  down the length of the round inner case . The round inner case  contains a round payload  that is retained in the round inner case  by a retaining ring . The square piston  of the square payload assembly  rests against the retaining ring  of the round payload assembly . The round payload assembly  is further comprised of a round piston  located just aft of the round payload . The round piston  fits the inner dimensions of the round inner case . The aft end of the round inner case  is attached to the manifold\/delay body assembly . Typically, the ends of the round inner case  and the manifold\/delay body assembly  are threaded such that they can be screwed together. Additionally, the round inner case  and manifold\/delay body assembly  could be attached by crimping methods such as the rubber die method, the roll crimp method or elecro-magnetic forming, ie. \u201cMagneform\u00ae\u201d crimp method. Obviously, other methods of attaching the round inner case to the manifold\/delay body assembly are possible in light of the above teachings, and the listing above is not intended to limit the methods of attachment.","Referring to , the manifold\/delay body assembly  is comprised of a one-piece manifold\/delay body , located just aft of the round payload assembly . The manifold\/delay body  is comprised of a round end  located forward and a square end  located aft. The round end  is attached to the aft end of the round inner case  by any means known in the art. Optionally, a pin  is inserted in the round end  of the manifold\/delay body  to assist in assembling the manifold\/delay body assembly  to the round inner case  by acting as a stop in the attachment process. Alternatively, a stop could be fabricated as an integral part of the manifold\/delay body . The round end  of the manifold\/delay body  has a round payload expulsion charge cavity  that contains an expulsion charge  for the round payload assembly . The square end  of the manifold\/delay body  fits the inside dimensions of the square outer case (not shown).",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["116","112","122","122","126","130","126","128","135","130","132","130","130","118","112","134","132"],"sub":"3 "},"Referring to ,  and , when a standard impulse cartridge (not shown) located in the standard impulse cartridge cavity  in the aft end  of the square outer case  is fired, the frangible thin disk area  of the standard impulse cartridge cavity  ruptures, allowing gases from the standard impulse cartridge to ignite the at least one booster pellet  and the delay element . The at least one booster pellet  produces additional gases. The gases from the standard impulse cartridge and at least one booster pellet  flow through the holes  in the four corners of the square end  of the manifold\/delay body , through the open spaces  between the round inner case  and the corners of the square outer case , down the length of the round inner case  to the square piston . Pressure caused by the gases from the standard impulse cartridge and at least one booster pellet  cause the square piston  to push against the square payload , which in turn pushes against the end cap , causing the end cap  to separate from the square outer case . The square payload  is then ejected and produces a decoying effect.","The delay element , ignited by the gases from the standard impulse cartridge, burns for a distinct time, and then ignites the round payload expulsion charge  for the round payload assembly  through the hole in the bottom of the delay element cavity . It is known in the art that the physical length and the burn rate of the delay element  control the delay time. Once ignited by the delay element , the round payload expulsion charge  produces gases that create pressure on the round piston , causing the round piston to push against the round payload , which in turn pushes against the retaining ring , causing the retaining ring  to separate from the round inner case . The round payload  is then ejected and produces a decoying effect after a distinct time lapse caused by the delay element.","Having described the invention, the following examples are given to illustrate specific applications of the invention, including the best mode now known to perform the invention. These specific examples are not intended to limit the scope of the invention described in this application.","Test devices were built and tested. The two-payload decoy device had an aluminum outer case that measures approximately 1 inch high by 1 inch wide by 8 inches long. A plastic end cap was crimped in the open end and sealed with an O-ring. The opposite end of the case was closed and had a cup shaped cavity designed to accommodate a standard impulse cartridge. Standard impulse cartridges are known in the art. Typically a BBU-35\/B or a CCU-145\/A standard impulse cartridge is used.","The internal components consisted of a manifold\/delay body assembly, containing a BKNObooster pellet housed in a plastic pellet cup, a pyrotechnic delay and an expulsion charge, which was screwed to a round inner case. The round inner case contained a round piston and the round payload retained by a C-shaped retaining ring. A square piston rested against the end of the retaining ring of the round inner case. The square piston fitted the inner dimensions of the square outer case. The square first payload was contained between the square piston and the plastic end cap. The end cap with O-ring was Magneform\u00ae crimped in the mouth of the one-piece outer case to seal and complete the device. After the plastic end cap was crimped on, the manifold\/delay body assembly was staked in place by deforming the square outer case inward in each of the four corners just forward of where the square corners of the manifold\/delay body assembly are located.","During testing, the standard impulse cartridge was fired. When the standard impulse cartridge was fired, a thin disk area in the bottom of the cartridge cavity ruptured and the cartridge gases ignited the BKNObooster pellet and the pyrotechnic delay. Two standard BKNObooster pellets with a weight of 0.067 grams each were used for a total weight of 0.134 grams. Gases from the impulse cartridge and booster pellet flowed through openings in the four corners of the square end of the manifold\/delay body and down through the open spaces in the four corners between the round inner case of the second payload and the square case. Pressure from these gases caused the square piston to push against square payload, which in turn pushed against the end cap causing the end cap to separate from the case. The first payload was ejected and produced heat. The delay burned a distinct amount of time and then ignited the expulsion charge for the round payload contained in the manifold\/delay body assembly. Gas pressure from the expulsion charge caused the round piston to push against the second payload, which in turn pushed against the retaining ring causing the retaining ring to separate from the round inner case. The second payload was then ejected and produced heat.","Obviously, many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that, within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00017","num":"00017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00018","num":"00018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00019","num":"00019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00020","num":"00020"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
