---
title: Methods and systems for static multimode multiplex spectroscopy
abstract: Methods and systems for static multimode multiplex spectroscopy are disclosed. According to a method for static multimode multiplex spectroscopy, spectral energy emanating from different points of a diffuse source is simultaneously received. Different multi-peak filter functions are applied to the spectral energy emanating from the different points to produce a multi-channel spectral measurement for each point. The multi-channel spectral measurements are combined to estimate a property of the diffuse source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07092101&OS=07092101&RS=07092101
owner: Duke University
number: 07092101
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030416
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Local Spectral Model","Modal Spectral Model","Chemical or Biological Analysis Model","Implementations","Two-Beam Interferometers","Static Two-Beam Interferometer for Multimode Multiplex Spectroscopy","Sampled Interferometers","Filters","Biological or Chemical Filter Design","3D Filters","Photonic Crystal Structures","Spectrally Sensitive Detectors","REFERENCES CITED"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N01-AA-23103 awarded by NIH. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","The present invention relates to methods and systems for static multimode multiplex spectroscopy. More particularly, the present invention relates to methods and systems for static multimode multiplex spectroscopy using different multi-peak filter functions to filter spectral energy emanating from different points of a diffuse source and for combining the multi-peak measurements to estimate a property of the source.","Optical spectroscopy may be used to detect and quantify characteristics of a source, such as the average spectrum of the source or the density of chemical and biological species of the source. As used herein, the term \u201csource\u201d refers to the object being spectrally analyzed. In determining chemical composition of a source, the spectral signature of the target species may be encoded on the optical field by mechanisms including absorption, admission, inelastic scattering, fluorescence, and wave mixing. Many sources are referred to as large etendue because they reflect or scatter light in a large solid angle over a large area. The etendue of a source is a measure of both the spatial extent of the source and the solid angle in to which it radiates. Large etendue sources are also referred to as incoherent or diffuse sources because low spatial coherence is implicit in a large solid angle radiated over a large area. An example of a large etendue source is laser-illuminated biological tissue.","One problem with measuring light radiated from large etendue sources using conventional spectrometers is that conventional spectrometers use filters that decrease optical throughput. For example, a conventional multiplex spectrometer measures light emanating from a source using elemental detectors with a narrowband color filter placed over each detector. Using narrowband color filters over each detector reduces the optical throughput of the conventional spectrometer. As a result, conventional multiplex spectrometers that utilize narrowband filters are incapable of accurately determining the optical properties of diffuse sources.","In another type of conventional spectrometer, multimodal measurements are taken in series and the measurements are combined to estimate the optical properties of a diffuse source. The spectrometers that perform such measurements are referred to as scanning spectrometers. Using scanning spectrometers to measure diffuse sources is disadvantages because such detectors require microelectromechanical and\/or piezoelectric components in order to successively apply different spectral filters to the detectors, and such components are expensive and difficult to fabricate.","A further disadvantage of scanning spectrometers is that taking multiple measurements in series increases measurement time. Increasing measurement time may be undesirable for some types of measurements, such as in vivo tissue measurements.","Yet another disadvantage of scanning spectrometers is lack of intelligent spectral filters. Conventional scanning spectrometers typically capture the full spectrum of electromagnetic radiation. Capturing the full spectrum is inefficient because some measurements contain radiation bands that are not of interest to analyzing a particular source.","Accordingly, in light of the difficulties associated with conventional spectroscopy, there exists a need for improved methods and systems for multimode multiplex spectroscopy capable of accurately and efficiently measuring characteristics of large etendue sources.","The present invention includes methods and systems for static multimode multiplex spectroscopy. According to one aspect of the invention, a method for static multimode multiplex spectroscopy includes receiving spectral energy emanating from a plurality of different points of a diffuse source and simultaneously applying different multi-peak filter functions to the spectral energy emanating from the different points to produce a multichannel spectral measurement for each point. The multichannel spectral measurements for the different points are combined to estimate a property, such as the average spectrum or the chemical composition, of the diffuse source.","One capability of the invention is capturing spectral signatures from sources that radiate into highly multimodal fields. By measuring spectral projections of different modes and different points in the field and using the projections to compute weighted measures of average spectral properties of the modes, the spectral signatures of multimodal sources can be captured. An example of aggregate spectral properties that may be determined include the mean spectrum of the modes or the mean value of portions for filters on the modal spectra.","Unlike conventional scanning spectrometers, a multimode multiplex spectrometer of the present invention is static in that it simultaneously measures multimodal projections at the same instance in time. Measuring multimodal projections at the same instance in time reduces the need for moving parts and increases the speed at which spectral projections can be measured.","A multimodal multiplex spectrometer (MMS) according to the present invention analyzes a diffuse incoherent or partially coherent optical source. Such sources are \u201cmultimodal\u201d because they are described by multiple modes in a coherent mode decomposition [1] using:\n\n","An MMS of the present invention may include spectrally diverse multiplex filters or detectors for spectral and target estimation. Spectral diversity means that different measurement values depend on a diversity of spectral channels in the field. For spectrally diverse multiplex filters, different measurement values depend on the amplitude of more than one spectral channel in the field. The filtering function in such systems contains multiple peaks. Multiplex spectroscopy generally relies on structured transformations, such as the Fourier transform of FT-IR spectroscopy. Using volume holograms, multichannel thin film filters, 3D structured photonic materials or circuits or nanostructured electronic detectors, MMS systems can be programmed to achieve arbitrary spectral responses in each detector element. Complex \u201cmatched\u201d multichannel design is also possible for other filter technologies, for example by structured spatio-temporal sampling of two-beam interferometers.","The present invention may also include estimation of mean spectra or mean chemical densities of diffuse sources by sampling different spectral projections on distributed spatial sampling points. Conventional spectroscopy uses tightly focused beams and spatial filtering to estimate spectral characteristics of only a single mode. In principle, the spectral densities of different modes may vary. MMS spectrometers are designed such that \u201cmultiplex\u201d measurements combine data from both spectral and modal distributions. The measurements are combined to measure average spectral or chemical densities over the modal distribution. However, it is not required to estimate the independent spectra of specific points or modes.","MMS systems according to the invention may also use randomly distributed spectral disparity from scattering of 3D structures or from nanostructure detector elements to achieve spatially distributed multiplex signals. MMS systems of the present invention may also use constrained optimization of distributed multiplex detectors to directly estimate source spectra or chemical densities.","Accordingly, it is an object of the invention to provide methods and systems for accurately and efficiently measuring spectral properties of diffuse sources.","It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems for static multimode multiplex spectroscopy that use different multi-peak filter functions on each detector.","It is another object of the invention to provide methods and systems for combining measurements obtained by a multimode multiplex spectrometer of the invention to determine a property of a diffuse source.","Some of the objects of the invention having been stated hereinabove, and which are addressed in whole or in part by the present invention, other objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.","The present invention includes methods and systems for simultaneously obtaining multi-peak spectral measurements from a diffuse source and for combining the multi-peak projections to determine a property of the source.  is a block diagram of a system for simultaneously obtaining different multi-peak spectral measurements from different points on a diffuse source and for combining the measurements to estimate a property of a diffuse source according to an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to , an exemplary system  includes a static filter or interferometer array , a detector array , illumination sources  and a multi-peak spectral measurements combination module  implemented on a computer . Static filter or interferometer array  includes a plurality of filters or interferometers for simultaneously obtaining different multi-peak spectral measurements emanating from a diffuse source . Detector array  converts the optical signals for each filtered multi-peak spectral measurement in to electrical signals and inputs the signals to computer . Illumination sources  illuminate diffuse source  for spectral analysis. Multi-peak spectral measurements combination module  combines the measurements to estimate a property of diffuse source .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","110","200","100","202","204"]},"According to one embodiment of the invention, spectral content may be measured and analyzed separately for each spatial point of a diffuse source. In order to obtain a spectral measurement for each point in a diffuse source, an array of elemental detectors and filters may be used. The array of elemental detectors and filters may be positioned close to the source so that spectral energy emanating from each point can be distinguished. The spectral energy emanating from each point can be separately analyzed and used to compute a property of the diffuse source, such as the average spectrum. The procedure for separately analyzing spectral energy emanating from each point of a diffuse source is referred to herein as the local model because local spectral measurements are obtained for each point.","The system illustrated in  can be referred to as a static multimode multiplex spectrometer because it simultaneously measures different multi-peak spectral projections emanating from a diffuse source. The system illustrated in  may be used to measure spectral content of multiple spatial mode systems in which the spectral content of the modes is correlated. However, the system illustrated in  is not concerned with independently characterizing the spectral content of different modes. Rather, the system makes different multiplex measurements on different modes and uses this multiplex data to estimate global features of a diffuse source, such as the average mode spectrum or the density of specific target chemicals. Equation (1) shown below illustrates exemplary measurements made by each detector in detector array  illustrated in FIG. .\n\n()=\u222b(\u03bd,)(\u03bd,)\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nIn Equation (1), I(\u03bd,r) is the spectral intensity distribution as a function of frequency \u03bd and radius r, h(\u03bd,r) is a spatially localized spectral response or filter function. The measurement at a single point r of the form shown in Equation (1) is referred to herein as a spectral projection. As will be described in more detail below, each filter in filter array  may have a different multi-peak filter function h(\u03bd,r). The filter functions h(\u03bd,r) are preferably selected so that the filter functions are invertible, tailored to the expected properties of the source being analyzed, and different from each other. Exemplary filter functions suitable for use with embodiments of the invention will be described in detail below. Definitions for variables used in the equations herein are listed in the Appendix at the end of this specification.\n","Measurements of local projections of the power spectrum are much easier to make than measurements of the full power spectrum at each point or in each mode. Nevertheless, these reduced measurements are useful in estimating source parameters, such as the mean spatially integrated power spectrum. The mean spectrum may be defined as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0047"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":["S","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"A"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","mi":"A","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03bd","r"],"mo":","}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"As an example of how Equation (1) can be used to estimate the mean spectrum {overscore (S)} (\u03bd), it can be assumed that there exist contours in Rover which h(\u03bd,r) is constant. Integrating along these contours, the following equation is obtained:\n\n(\u03bd)=\u222b\u222b(\u03bd)()()=\u222b(\u03bd)(\u03bd,)\u2003\u2003(3)\n\nwhere l is a parameter along curves orthogonal to the contours. Assuming further that there exists h(\u03bd,l) such that \u222bh(\u03bb\u2032,l)h(\u03bd,l)dl=\u2202(\u03bd\u2032\u2212\u03bd), {overscore (S)}(\u03bd) can be estimated using the following equation\n\n(\u03bd)=\u222b\u222b(\u03bd)()\u2003\u2003(4)\n","For example, for a two-beam interferometer or multichannel fiber system, one might choose h(\u03bd,r) =cos(2\u03c0\u03b1\u03bdx\/c). In this case the contours of integration are lines along the y axis. And the following measurements are obtained:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0050"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"m","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"x"}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"S","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\u03bd","r"],"mo":","}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"y"}],"mo":"\u2062"}}},{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u03c0","\u03b1","\u03bd","x"]},"mi":"c"}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":["S","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mi":"cos","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u03c0","\u03b1","\u03bd","x"]},"mi":"c"}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}}}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"More generally, both the target spectrum and the measured values may be considered discretely. In this case the transformation between the target spectrum and the measurements takes the form of a linear relationship between a vector describing the target spectrum, {right arrow over (s)}, and a vector describing the measurement state, {right arrow over (m)} of the form {right arrow over (m)}=H{right arrow over (s)}. Formally, one may estimate the target spectrum as {right arrow over (s)}=H{right arrow over (m)}, although nonlinear estimation algorithms may improve the reconstruction fidelity. In cases where the rank H is less than the number of components in {right arrow over (s)}, nonlinear techniques in combination with target constraints, such as that the components of the vector must be nonnegative or that the target source consists of a discrete number of active channels, may be needed for target estimation.","Thus, multi-peak spectral measurements combination software  may have access to the inverse filter functions h(\u03bd\u2032,r) for each filter function h(\u03bd\u2032,r) implemented by array . Software  may calculate the average spectrum for each filter function by multiplying the measurement for that filter function and the inverse of the filter function and integrating over the area of the source using Equation (4). The average spectrum for each section of the source can then be added to determine the average spectrum of the source.","In considering the local model for multimodal analysis, it is not necessary to assume that I(\u03bd,r) is confined to a plane or even a manifold. It can be assumed that present invention samples spectral projections at a sufficiently large set of such that inversion according to Equation (4) is well conditioned without requiring that the support of the sample point be compact.","Equation (1) assumes a spectrally filtered version of the field can be captured at a point. Obtaining spectrally filtered versions of a field at each point of a diffuse source may be accomplished by incorporating nanostructured electronics or non-homogeneous atomic systems in static filter array . For example, a quantum dot spectrometer [5] that achieves a spatially localized spectral projection will be described in detail below. In an alternate embodiment, spectral projections may be captured by focusing each spatial point of a source into a fiber and using a static interferometer on each fiber output to capture a projection. However, this approach would result in an unwieldy and complex instrument that would be difficult to manufacture. Exemplary implementations for capturing spectral projections at individual points of a diffuse source will be discussed in detail below in the section labeled \u201cImplementations.\u201d","In yet another alternate embodiment of the invention, rather than measuring spectral projections at each individual point of a diffuse source, it may desirable to measure projections of different modes, apply different multi-peak filter functions to each mode, and combine the measurements from each mode to estimate a spectral property of the diffuse source. Modal measurements can be taken at a location spaced from the source and do not require elemental detectors. Hence, modal-based instruments may be less complex than the elemental-based instruments describe above.","In most spectrometers, spectrally selective measures of the field are obtained via propagation through an interferometer or filter rather than by local sampling. In these systems multi-peak spectral measurements combination module  may analyze the projection of the field measured by detector array  using a modal theory based on optical coherence functions. In one embodiment, software  uses the coherent mode decomposition of the cross-spectral density. The cross-spectral density is defined as the Fourier transform of the mutual coherence function \u0393(r,r, \u03c4) [1]\n\n(, \u03bd)=\u222b\u0393(, \u03c4)\u2003\u2003(6)\n\nW(r,r, \u03bd) is Hermitian and positive definite in transformations on functions of r, and r, by which properties one can show that it can be represented by a coherent mode expansion of the form\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"W","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"r","mn":"1"},{"mi":"r","mn":"2"}],"mo":[",",","],"mi":"\u03bd"}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03d5","n"],"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"1"},"mo":",","mi":"\u03bd"}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03d5","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"2"},"mo":",","mi":"\u03bd"}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}],"sub":["n","n","m","n","mn","1","1"],"sup":"2"},"An MMS is a linear optical system that transforms the coherent modes under the impulse response h(r,r\u2032,\u03bd). After propagation through the system the cross-spectral density is",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":"W","mo":"~"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"r","mn":"1"},{"mi":"r","mn":"2"}],"mo":[",",","],"mi":"\u03bd"}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c8","n"],"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"1"},"mo":",","mi":"\u03bd"}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c8","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"2"},"mo":",","mi":"\u03bd"}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["n","n","n"],"sup":"2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","i"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mi":["A","i"]},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":"W","mo":"~"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","r","\u03bd"],"mo":[",",","]}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mi":["A","i"]},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03c8","n"],"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","\u03bd"],"mo":","}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c8","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","\u03bd"],"mo":","}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}]}}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msubsup":{"mi":["\u03d5","n"],"mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]},"mo":",","mi":"\u03bd"}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03d5","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["r","\u2033"]},"mo":",","mi":"\u03bd"}}},{"msub":{"mi":["H","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":["r","\u2032"]},{"mi":["r","\u2033"]}],"mo":[",",","],"mi":"\u03bd"}}},{"msup":[{"mo":"\u2146","mn":"2"},{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}],"mo":"\u2062"},{"msup":[{"mo":"\u2146","mn":"2"},{"mi":["r","\u2033"]}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}}],"mo":"\u2061"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"H","mo":"~"},"mi":["i","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"i ","sup":"th ","b":"104"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0061"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["H","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":[{"mi":["r","\u2032"]},{"mi":["r","\u2033"]}],"mo":[",",","],"mi":"\u03bd"}}},{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mi":["A","i"]},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"h","mo":"*"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","\u03bd"],"mo":[",",","],"msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]}}}},{"mi":"h","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","\u03bd"],"mo":[",",","],"msup":{"mi":["r","\u2033"]}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["{tilde over (H)}","r","r","H","r\u2032,r","r\u2032d","r\u2033."],"sub":["i","n","n","i"],"sup":["n","2","2"]},"As with the local model, one goal of MMS is to estimate the mean spectrum, which in this case is",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0063"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":["S","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},"mo":"."}}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":["n","n"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0064"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","i"]},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":["S","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["H","_"]},"mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}]}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}],"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","n"]},"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"},{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"H","mo":"~"},"mi":["i","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"}]}}}],"mo":"-"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["\u2248","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":["S","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["H","_"]},"mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}]}}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0065"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["H","_"]},"mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mi":"N","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"H","mo":"~"},"mi":["i","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}}}}],"mo":"="},"mo":","}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["\u2329","\u232a"],"mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"n"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u0394","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}],"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"msubsup":{"mover":{"mi":"H","mo":"~"},"mi":["i","n"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\u03bd"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03bd"}]}}}},"mo":"=","mn":"0."}}},"br":{},"b":"106"},"An MMS system according to the present invention may also be modeled as a direct measure of chemical or biological species. Let c(r) represent the concentration of spectral species i at position r. Suppose that species i generates a spectrum s(\u03bd). An MMS system measures spectral positions at diverse positions r. The overall spectrum at r is",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0068"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"S","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["v","r"],"mo":","}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["c","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"r"}},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["s","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"v"}},"mo":"."}],"mo":"\u2062"}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0069"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"m","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"r"}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"S","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["v","r"],"mo":","}}},{"mi":"h","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["v","r"],"mo":","}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"v"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}],"mo":"="}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["c","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"r"}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["s","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["v","r"],"mo":","}}},{"mi":"h","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["v","r"],"mo":","}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"v"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":"=","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["H","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"r"}},{"msub":{"mi":["c","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"r"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}}]}}},"br":{},"sub":["i","i"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0070"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","j"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"msubsup":{"mo":"\u222b","msub":{"mi":["A","j"]},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"m","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"r"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":"j ","sup":"th "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0071"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","j"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"H","mrow":{"mi":["j","i"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":["c","_"]},"mi":"i"},"mo":"."}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":"i"},"The spectral projection kernels h(\u03bd,r) should be designed to make estimation of the {overscore (c)}tractable and efficient. The exact filter design arises from the PLS algorithm. One may recursively optimize h(\u03bd,r) in simulation using PLS to achieve maximal fidelity. Design of h(\u03bd,r) may consist of sampling and geometric design in the case of interferometers, but is more likely to occur through hologram, thin film filter or photonic crystal design. The design methodology for these processes is discussed below.","Spectrometers may be subdivided into various classes, such as dispersive or multiplex and scanning or static [12]. A dispersive spectrometer separates color channels onto a detector or detector array for isomorphic detection. A multiplex spectrometer measures linear combinations of spectral and temporal channels. Arrays of multiplex data are inverted to estimate the spectral density. A scanning spectrometer functions by mechanical or electro-optic translation of optical properties, as in a rotating grating or a moving mirror. A static interferometer captures full spectra in a single time step by mapping wavelength or multiplex measurements onto a static sensor array. Static grating spectrometers based on linear detector arrays have been available for some time; while static multiplex spectrometers have emerged over the past decade [13\u201322].","Spectrometers may be characterized on the basis of many factors, including etendue and acceptance angle, throughput, spectral resolution and resolving power. The etendue is the integral of the differential product of the solid angle of emissions over the surface of the source. The etendue may be considered roughly as the input area times the acceptance angle of the spectrometer. The throughput is the photon efficiency of the instrument. The spectral resolution is the resolution of the reconstructed spectrum. The resolving power is the ratio of the center wavelength of the reconstructed spectrum to the spectral resolution. For grating spectrometers, the spectral resolution of an instrument and the etendue are proportional.","Optical fields may be described in terms of spatial and temporal modes. The modes of a system form a complete set of self-consistent solutions to the boundary conditions and wave equations within that system. Spectroscopy measures the spectral content of optical fields by measuring the mode amplitudes as a function of wavelength. In general, spectrometers employ spatial filtering to restrict the number of spatial modes in the system. This restriction is necessary because mechanisms for determining spectral content usually assume that the field is propagating along a common axis through the system. Imaging spectrometers, in contrast, independently measure the spectrum of multiple spatial modes.","Optical spectrometer design is motivated by the fact that optical detectors are not themselves particularly spectrally sensitive. Most electronic detectors have spectrally broad response over a wide range. Optical components, such as gratings, filters, interferometers, etc., preprocess the field prior to electronic detection to induce spectrally dependent features on the intensity patterns sensed by spectrally insensitive electronic devices. However, as will be described below quantum dot detectors could change this situation [5].","The following methods may be used in filter\/interferometer array  and detector array  to implement the transformation of Equation (1)","In one embodiment, static filter\/interferometer array  and detector array  may be implemented using a two-beam interferometer. A two-beam interferometer, such as a Michelson, Mach-Zender, Sagnac or birefringent system, separates the source with a beam splitter or polarizer and recombines it on a detector. Two-beam interferometers have long been used as scanning Fourier transform spectrometers. In this implementation, the relative optical path along the arms of the interferometer is scanned and the optical signal is measured as a function of time delay. If the transformation from a source plane to the interferometer output plane is imaging, these instruments can function as \u201chyperspectral\u201d cameras in which each pixel contains high resolution spectra. Over the past decade, there has been increasing emphasis on \u201cstatic\u201d Fourier transform interferometers. In a static interferometer, the spectrum is measured in a single shot [8\u201313, 15, 17]. Advantages of static interferometers include reduced dependence on mechanical components, compact and stable implementation and lowered cost.","In one embodiment, static filter\/interferometer array  and detector array  may be implemented using static interferometers for large etendue sources. A static two-beam interferometer captures a spectrum in a single shot by measuring the signal generated by colliding wavefronts.  illustrates an example of the operation of a static two-beam interferometer. In , the colliding wavefronts  and  induce an interference pattern  on sensor plane  that can be inverted to describe the spectrum of the source. The beam paths in two-beam interferometers delay and redirect the direction of propagation of the interfering waves. In , the wavefronts  and  intersect at their midpoints, which can be achieved in imaging and source doubling interferometers. Other designs, notably Michelson systems, introduce a shear in addition to the tilt between the wavefronts.","Two-beam interferometers may be further subdivided into null time delay and true time delay instruments. True time delay instruments transversely modulate the beams with a lens or other imaging instruments to reproduce the field with a delay. Despite the variety of mechanisms that create two-beam interference, uniform wavefront two-beam interferometers can be described using a relatively small number of parameters in a simple model. A two-beam interferometer interferes the beam radiated from a source with a rotated, translated and delayed version of the same beam (the possibility of a change in spatial scale is discounted for simplicity.)  illustrates the relative geometry of two beams  and  in a two-beam interferometer. In , the signal produced on sensor plane  is the mean superposition of the fields along the two arms.\n\n()=\u0393(,0)+\u0393(\u2032,0)+\u0393(\u2032,\u03c4)+\u0393(, \u03c4)\u2003\u2003(11)\n\nwhere \u0393(r,r\u2032,\u03c4) is the mutual coherence between points r and r\u2032 for time delay \u03c4. The effect of the interferometer is to rotate and displace and delay one beam relative to the other. The transformation is described by\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0081"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["r","\u2032"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"R","mrow":{"mi":["\u03b8","\u03d5"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":["r","o"]}}}},"mo":"+","mi":"d"},{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"R","mrow":{"mi":["\u03b8","\u03d5"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"r"},"mo":"+","msup":{"mi":["d","\u2032"]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","="],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"12"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["\u03b8\u03c6","0 ","\u03b8\u03c6","0"]},"As described above, an object of the present invention is measuring spectral content of spatially broadband \u201cincoherent\u201d sources. The coherent mode decomposition for such a source can be expressed in terms of any complete set of modes over the spatio-spectral support of the field. Using a plane wave decomposition, the mutual coherence can be modeled as",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0083"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0393","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"r","mn":"1"},{"mi":"r","mn":"2"}],"mo":[",",","],"mi":"\u03c4"}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":[",",","]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mi":"j"},{"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":"\u00b7","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"r","mn":"1"},{"mi":"r","mn":"2"}],"mo":"-"}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["c","\u03c4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}}]}}}}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"13"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0084"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u03c0","l"]},"msub":{"mi":["L","x"]}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["i","x"]}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u03c0","m"]},"msub":{"mi":["L","y"]}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["i","y"]}},{"mfrac":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u03c0","n"]},"msub":{"mi":["L","z"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["i","z"]},"mo":"."}}],"mo":["+","+"]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0085"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mover":{"mi":["S","_"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"v"}},{"mrow":[{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"A"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u0393","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","r","\u03c4"],"mo":[",",","]}}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\u03c4"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mi":"j2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}],"mi":["\u03c0","v","\u03c4"]}},"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":[",",","]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"v","mo":"-","mfrac":{"mi":"c","mrow":{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}}}}}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","="],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"2.5em","height":"2.5ex"}}}]}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"14"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0084","num":"0086"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u0393","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["r","r","\u03c4"],"mo":[",",","]}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":[",",","]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"-","mi":"j"},{"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":["\u00b7","\u00b7"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"I","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"R","mrow":{"mi":["\u03b8","\u03d5"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}}},"mi":"r"}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":"\u00b7","msup":{"mi":["d","\u2032"]}}}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["c","\u03c4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}}]}}}}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"15"}}]}}}},"br":{}},"Generally, an interferometer measures \u0393(r,r\u2032,\u03c4) at a fixed time over a simple manifold, such as a plane. The power spectrum of the source is estimated by taking a spatial Fourier transform along one or more dimensions in the plane, which yields",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0088"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["S","p"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["u","\u03c4"],"mo":","}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":[",",","]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}},"mo":"\u00b7","msup":{"mi":["d","\u2032"]}}}}},{"mi":"exp","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"j","mo":"\u2062","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mi":["c","\u03c4"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"msub":{"mi":"k","mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}}]}}}},{"mi":"sinc","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mi":"u","mo":"-","msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"msubsup":{"mi":["k","\u2032"],"mrow":{"mi":["l","m","n"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}}]}}},"mi":"\u2022"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mi":"A"}}}]}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"16"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["lmn","lmn","\u03b8\u03c6","lmn","lmn"]},"Any non-zero value for d\u2032 substantially reduces the bandwidth in kover which Equation (16) may be used to extract the estimated spectrum of Equation (14). Since by definition a large etendue spectrometer must accept a large bandwidth in k, spectrometers for which the point of rotation for the interfering beams is not in the sensor plane are not well suited for implementing filter array  and detector array . Static Sagnac, Mach-Zender and birefringent spectrometers are capable of producing a center of rotation within the sensor plane and are therefore suitable for use as filter array\/spectrometer  and detector array  according to the present invention. For these sensors, Equation (15) may be used to estimate {overscore (S)}(\u03bd) to the extent that one can assume that [k\u2032]\u2225 can be associated with |k|. Since spatial frequency resolution in S(u,\u03c4) is 1\/A, it can be assumed that no ambiguity results if the longitudinal bandwidth of kis less that 1\/A. Since the spectral resolution in estimating {overscore (S)}(\u03bd) will be c\/A, for a simple two beam interferometer, spectral resolution and etendue are inversely related. A simple static interferometer, even with image transfer between the source and sensor planes and rotation in the sensor plane, cannot simultaneously maintain high spectral resolution and high etendue. The following sections consider alternative designs to overcome this challenge.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0090"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["500","502","504","512","514","500","516","518","520","502","504","512","504","512","514","522","516","502","518","520","522","516","514","514"]},"In the illustrated example, beam splitter  receives light rays  and  emanating from points P and P on source . Light ray  enters beam splitter  and is split into components  and . Similarly, light ray  is incident on beam splitter  and is split into components  and . Light ray component  is reflected by mirror  proceeds back through beam splitter , through optics  and is focused on detector array . Similarly, component  is reflected by mirror  and by beam splitter  through optics  and onto detector array . The interference of light ray components  and  produces an interference pattern for point P on detector array . Similarly, the interference of light ray components  and  produces an interference pattern for point Pon detector array .","According to an important aspect of the invention, the difference in distance between interference light paths for different points on source  preferably varies. For example, the distance traveled by light ray component  is preferably different from the distance traveled by light ray component  in reaching detector array . Assuming that the spectra of different points on source  are related, the interference patterns for the different points detected by detector array  can be used to estimate a property of the source , such as the chemical composition or the average spectrum.","The challenge of using measurements of the form represented by Equation (15) to estimate {overscore (S)}(\u03bd)can be addressed by revised sampling strategies for \u0393(r,r\u2032,\u03c4). The most direct approach is to sample as a function of \u03c4. True time delays can be introduced in the field by waveguiding or by imaging. The waveguiding approach may include coupling each point in the source plane through a different fiber interferometer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0094"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["600","602","604","600","602","604","600","606","602","608","604","610"],"sub":["2 ","1","4 ","3","6 minus t","5","6","5","4","3","2","1"]},"In moving from a two-beam interferometer to a fiber array, the measurements implemented by filter array\/interferometer  and detector  change from continuous transform systems to discrete sampling. While a two-beam interferometer samples by integrating on pixels across a plane, more general devices consist of discrete 3D structures and sample more general space time points in \u0393(r,r\u2032,\u03c4). A segmented two-beam interferometer is another example of a sampled system suitable for use with the present invention. Such an interferometer may include an array of static two beam interferometers, based on Sagnac or Wollaston designs. Each interferometer may use imaging optics to induce a true coarse time delay between the beams and tilt to induce a fine propagation time delay. The aperture of the interferometers is preferably matched to the etendue of the source. The main advantage of an array of two-beam interferometers is that the number of discrete devices is much reduced relative to the fiber array approach. One may view these approaches as a spectrum spanning the effective number of time delays per interferometer from one to N. The acceptance angle of the system falls as the number of time delays per interferometer increases. In view of this trade-off and the manufacturing complexity and cost of making an array of interferometers, this approach may be less preferable than other approaches. Filters may be more cost-effective to implement than sampled interferometers. Accordingly, exemplary filter implementations are described in detail below.","The filter approach to MMS seeks to directly implement measurements of the form shown in Equation (1). As in the previous section, measurements are implemented in discrete form.  illustrates an exemplary filtered detector array suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention. Referring to , a plurality of filters  are located on a source plane . A detector  may be located on each filter . Each filter  may implement a different multi-peak filter function h(\u03bd). In , each filter  may include a plurality of layers. The layers for each filter implement the filter functions h(\u03bd). Each detector makes a measurement of the form.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0097"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","i"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munder":{"mrow":{"mo":["\u222b","\u222b"]},"msub":{"mi":["A","i"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"I","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["\ud835\udccb","r"],"mo":","}}},{"msub":{"mi":["h","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"\ud835\udccb"}},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"\ud835\udccb"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"r"}]}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"17"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i ","i"],"b":["700","700"]},"The primary disadvantages of the absorptive approach are lack of spectral resolution and lack of programmability. The advantages of the absorptive approach are that the filters may in principle be very thin. The disadvantages of the interference approach are that the filters use propagation to filter and thus must be relatively thick. Interference filters may also be relatively challenging to fabricate to precise specifications and their response may depend on angle of incidence, thus limiting the etendue over which they are effective. Accordingly, four approaches to filters suitable for use with the present invention will now be described: layered media, volume holograms, 3D structured materials and absorptive media.","The simplest thin film filters consist of a layered stack of media of different refractive indices. Commonly, such filters are constructed using periodic stacks. Wavelengths and waves resonant with the filter are selectively reflected or transmitted. Limited angular acceptance is of the primary disadvantages of conventional thin film filters, but they can be optimized for high angular degeneracy. Recently, a group at MIT has shown that a thin film filter may be designed to selectively reject all light at a given wavelength, independent of angle of incidence [24\u201339]. This filter acts as a very high etendue wavelength selector.","For multiplex spectroscopy, a filter with high angular invariance but also broad and nearly random spectral response is preferred. Such filters have been shown to be possible through simulation.  shows the band diagram for a thin film filter consisting of 10 layers with alternating refractive indices of 1.5 and 2.5. The layer thicknesses are uniformly and randomly distributed between zero and ten times the free space center wavelength. In , the values on the negative side of the horizontal axis reflect transmission of the TM mode as a function of frequency scaling from 0.9 to 1.1 times the central wavelength. The horizontal scale is the transverse wavenumber n sin \u03b8 running from normal incidence to incidence from air along the surface of the filter. The values on the positive side of the horizontal axis represent the transmission of the TE mode as a function of incident wavenumber and relative frequency.","Ideally, for a high etendue filter, the bright bands of transmission in  would be horizontal. Curvature in these bands corresponds to variation in the transmission at a single wavelength as a function of angle of incidence.","If the transmission across  is summed at each wavelength, the spectral response of the filter for spatially broadband (incoherent) sources can be estimated.  illustrates the results of summing the transmission bands in  at each wavelength. In , the spectral response is highly structured.","Creation of an MMS system using multichannel thin film filters includes realizing a large number of filters with responses as structured as the response shown in .  illustrates the spectral responses of 5 thin film filters realized with random layer thickness. In , the different spectral responses are highly uncorrelated.","Optimized design of the layer thicknesses in a set of spectrally varying filters is expected to substantially improve the orthogonality and inversion rank of multichannel thin film filters. As shown in , however, curvature in the spectral response is difficult to completely remove. Substantial flattening of this response is expected to require 3D modulated filters, such as volume holograms or photonic crystals.","Molecules emit or absorb characteristic spectra in a variety of situations. Raman spectra, which are inelastic shifts of scattered radiation due to intermolecular vibrational resonances, are particularly characteristic of molecular sources. Ethanol, for example, has Raman lines at 436, 886, 1062, 1095, 1279 and 1455 inverse centimeters relative to the excitation source.  illustrates typical Raman spectra for ethanol in water.","In diffuse multicomponent environments, many spectra signals will be present. Partial least squares algorithms weight spectral components or individual measurements so to enable estimation of target densities. In designing an MMS sensor, one balances physical reliability of a filter function against the design goals. A thin film filter, for example, can be designed to pass multiple wavelengths to selectively measure components of interest based on PLS optimization. For example,  shows the transmittance of a thin film filter designed for ethanol detection. A multiplex filter design for ethanol however, does not necessarily have to match just the peaks of the ethanol Raman spectra. The design may be derived from the PLS optimization or other suitable multivariate optimization technique.","The filter illustrated in  would be one of 4\u201316 different components in a multichannel MMS detector system. An example of a different multi-peak filter function that may be used in a multichannel MMS detector for detecting ethanol is shown in . This process may be repeated for each filter element to form an MMS detector with different multi-peak filter functions for ethanol detection according to an embodiment of the invention. Once the different filters are created, measurements from the different filters can be combined using the equations described above to estimate the chemical composition of a spectrally diffuse source. For example, measurements may be simultaneously taken using the different multi-peak filters. Each measurement may be multiplied by the inverse of its respective filter function to yield the concentration of the compound of interest measured by each detector element. The concentrations may be combined to estimate the average concentration in the source using the equations described above.","Variation in the filter response as a function of angle of incidence is a problem with thin film systems. Spatial filtering would be needed to restrict the angles of incidence to a range consistent with the desired spectral response.","In yet another embodiment of the invention, array  may be implemented using a 3D filter. A 3D filter is modulates the index of refraction along all three dimensions. The simplest form of 3D spectral filter is a volume hologram, typically recorded by a photorefractive effect. Volume holograms can be extraordinarily selective spectrally, especially if they are recorded along the direction of propagation. The disadvantage of volume holograms is that they are based on very weak index modulations and that these weak modulations fall rapidly as the complexity of the hologram is increased [40]. The advantage of volume holograms is that the spatial and spectral response of the system can be precisely programmed. As an MMS system, a volume hologram recorded as a set of \u201cshift multiplexed\u201d [41] reflection gratings could be set to operate as an arbitrary multichannel filter on each source point.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0108","num":"0110"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"b":["1200","1202","1204"]},"In yet another alternate embodiment of the invention the spectral selectivity and programmability of volume holography can be exchanged for the ease of fabrication and manufacturing associated with photonic crystals or photonic glasses (quasi-random structured materials). The idea of using photonic crystals as multiplex spectral filters is particularly promising in the context of recent results on \u201csuperprism\u201d effects [42\u201350]. The superprism effect yields high spectral dispersion on propagation through photonic crystals. The effective dispersion may be 1\u20132 orders of magnitude in excess of corresponding values for conventional dielectrics. For MMS applications, very thin samples of microcavities or gratings may be used.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0110","num":"0112"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 13A"],"b":["1300","1302","1300","1304","1302","1306","1300","1300","1302"]},"Each curve in  corresponds to a spectral measurement at a different position, r, behind a photonic crystal filter. The measurements were made by illuminating the sample with a spatially incoherent spectrally broadband source and then measuring the transmitted spectrum at points behind the photonic crystal using a fiber coupled spectrometer. The collection area for the fiber was 9 microns in diameter. The differences in the spectral response for each curve represent spectral diversity, as defined above. Over the spectral range from 650 to 750 nm, the spectral diversity of the different detection points is high. Detectors measuring the total optical power at each detection point over this range would measure {right arrow over (m)}=\u222b{right arrow over (h)}(\u03bd){overscore (S)}(\u03bd)d\u03bd, where {right arrow over (h)}(\u03bd) is a vector of functions. Each component function corresponds to one of the spectral response curves in . As discussed above, this vector transformation may be inverted to estimate the mean spectrum or the chemical composition of a sample.","In yet another alternate embodiment, rather than using dielectric spheres, rectilinear structures can be used to compress the modal propagation range and create spatio-spectral structure on the sensor plane.  illustrates a rectilinear crystalline structure suitable for use with the present invention. Referring to , a plurality of rectilinear structures \u2013 are located in front of detectors . Rectilinear structures \u2013 may include strips of absorptive or reflective material. Rectilinear structures \u2013 are preferably different from each other to produce a different filter response for different points of a diffuse source.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0113","num":"0115"},"figref":"FIG. 14B","b":["1416","1414"]},"As noted above, multichannel filter operation can be used spectrally selective absorbers, rather than inteferometric filters. Ideally, these absorbers consist of a heterogeneous set of relatively narrow band species. For example, a detector formed from an array of quantum dots may be used, as in [5]. Rather than attempting to electrically isolate individual dot channels, however, one may integrate over a selection of spectral channels. If one made detectors containing numbers of dots proportional to or less than the number of spectral channels the dots absorbed, one would expect relatively random spectral responses in each detector. An array of such detectors might be used to reconstruct the mean spectrum.","The disclosure of each of the following references is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0000"},"ul":{"@attributes":{"id":"ul0003","list-style":"none"},"li":["[1] L. Mandel and E. Wolf, . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995.","[2] K. J. Zuzak, M. D. Schaeberle, E. N. Lewis, and I. W. Levin, \u201cVisible reflectance hyperspectral imaging: Characterization of a noninvasive, in vivo system for determining tissue perfusion,\u201d , vol. 74, pp. 2021\u20132028, 2002.","[3] T. H. Pham, F. Bevilacqua, T. Spott, J. S. Dam, B. J. Tromberg, and S. Andersson-Engels, \u201cQuantifying the absorption and reduced scattering coefficients of tissuelike turbid media over a broad spectral range with noncontact Fourier-transform hyperspectral imaging,\u201d , vol. 39, pp. 6487\u20136497, 2000.","[4] T. H. Pham, C. Eker, A. Durkin, B. J. Tromberg, and S. Andersson-Engels, \u201cQuantifying the optical properties and chromophore concentrations of turbid media by chemometric analysis of hyperspectral diffuse reflectance data collected using a fourier interferometric imaging system,\u201d , vol. 55, pp. 1035\u20131045, 2001.","[5] J. L. Jimenez, L. R. C. Fonseca, D. J. Brady, J. P. Leburton, D. E.  Wohlert, and K. Y. Cheng, \u201cThe quantum dot spectrometer,\u201d , vol. 71, pp. 3558\u20133560, 1997.","[6] E. Wolf, \u201cCoherent-mode propagation in spatially band-limited wave fields,\u201d , vol. 3, pp. 1920\u20131924, 1986.","[7] M. C. Denham, \u201cImplementing Partial Least-Squares,\u201d , vol. 5, pp. 191\u2013202, 1995.","[8] D. M. Haaland and E. V. Thomas, \u201cPartial Least-Squares Methods for Spectral Analyses .1. Relation to Other Quantitative Calibration Methods and the Extraction of Qualitative Information,\u201d , vol. 60, pp. 1193\u20131202, 1988.","[9] A. Phatak and F. de Hoog, \u201cExploiting the connection between PLS, Lanczos methods and conjugate gradients: alternative proofs of some properties of PLS,\u201d , vol. 16, pp. 361\u2013367, 2002.","[10] J. A. Westerhuis, T. Kourti, and J. F. MacGregor, \u201cAnalysis of multiblock and hierarchical PCA and PLS models,\u201d , vol. 12, pp. 301\u2013321, 1998.","[11] S. Wold, J. Trygg, A. Berglund, and H. Antti, \u201cSome recent developments in PLS modeling,\u201d , vol. 58, pp. 131\u2013150, 2001.","[12] J. F. James and R. S. Sternberg, . London: Chapman & Hall, 1969.","[13] J. Courtial, B. A. Patterson, A. R. Harvey, W. Sibbett, and M. J. Padgett, \u201cDesign of a static Fourier-transform spectrometer with increased field of view,\u201d , vol. 35, pp. 6698\u20136702, 1996.","[14] J. Courtial, B. A. Patterson, W. Hirst, A. R. Harvey, A. J. Duncan, W. Sibbett, and M. J. Padgett, \u201cStatic Fourier-transform ultraviolet spectrometer for gas detection,\u201d , vol. 36, pp. 2813\u20132817, 1997.","[15] E. V. Ivanov, \u201cStatic Fourier transform spectroscopy with enhanced resolving power,\u201d -, vol. 2, pp. 519\u2013528, 2000.","[16] C. C. Montarou and T. K. Gaylord, \u201cAnalysis and design of compact, static Fourier-transform spectrometers,\u201d , vol. 39, pp. 5762\u20135767, 2000.","[17] M. J. Padgett and A. R. Harvey, \u201cA Static Fourier-Transform Spectrometer Based on Wollaston Prisms,\u201d , vol. 66, pp. 2807\u20132811, 1995.","[18] B. A. Patterson, M. Antoni, J. Courtial, A. J. Duncan, W. Sibbett, and M. J. Padgett, \u201cAn ultra-compact static Fourier-transform spectrometer based on a single birefringent component,\u201d , vol. 130, pp. 1\u20136, 1996.","[19] B. A. Patterson, J. P. Lenney, W. Sibbett, B. Hirst, N. K. Hedges, and M. J. Padgett, \u201cDetection of benzene and other gases with an open-path, static Fourier-transform UV spectrometer,\u201d , vol. 37, pp. 3172\u20133175, 1998.","[20] D. Steers, B. A. Patterson, W. Sibbett, and M. J. Padgett, \u201cWide field of view, ultracompact static Fourier-transform spectrometer,\u201d , vol. 68, pp. 30\u201333, 1997.","[21] S. Strassnig and E. P. Lankmayr, \u201cElimination of matrix effects for static headspace analysis of ethanol,\u201d , vol. 849, pp. 629\u2013636, 1999.","[22] G. Zhan, \u201cStatic Fourier-transform spectrometer with spherical reflectors,\u201d , vol. 41, pp. 560\u2013563, 2002.","[23] J. F. James, R. S. Sternberg, and a. joint, . London: Chapman & Hall, 1969.","[24] I. Abdulhalim, \u201cOmnidirectional reflection from anisotropic periodic dielectric stack,\u201d , vol. 174, pp. 43\u201350, 2000.","[25] D. Bria, B. Djafari-Rouhani, E. H. El Boudouti, A. Mir, A. Akjouj, and A. Nougaoui, \u201cOmnidirectional optical mirror in a cladded-superlattice structure,\u201d , vol. 91, pp. 2569\u20132572, 2002.","[26] K. M. Chen, A. W. Sparks, H. C. Luan, D. R. Lim, K. Wada, and L. C. Kimerling, \u201cSiO2\/TiO2 omnidirectional reflector and microcavity resonator via the sol-gel method,\u201d , vol. 75, pp. 3805\u20133807, 1999.","[27] E. Cojocaru, \u201cOmnidirectional reflection from Solc-type anisotropic periodic dielectric structures,\u201d , vol. 39, pp. 6441\u20136447, 2000.","[28] E. Cojocaru, \u201cOmnidirectional reflection from finite periodic and Fibonacci quasi-periodic multilayers of alternating isotropic and birefringent thin films,\u201d , vol. 41, pp. 747\u2013755, 2002.","[29] M. Deopura, C. K. Ullal, B. Temelkuran, and Y. Fink, \u201cDielectric omnidirectional visible reflector,\u201d vol. 26, pp. 1197\u20131199, 2001.","[30] Y. Fink, J. N. Winn, S. H. Fan, C. P. Chen, J. Michel, J. D. Joannopoulos, and E. L. Thomas, \u201cA dielectric omnidirectional reflector,\u201d , vol. 282, pp. 1679\u20131682, 1998.","[31] B. Gallas, S. Fisson, E. Charron, A. Brunet-Bruneau, G. Vuye, and J. Rivory, \u201cMaking an omnidirectional reflector,\u201d , vol. 40, pp. 5056\u20135063, 2001.","[32] C. Hooijer, D. Lenstra, and A. Lagendijk, \u201cMode density inside an omnidirectional mirror is heavily directional but not small,\u201d , vol. 25, pp. 1666\u20131668, 2000.","[33] S. H. Kim and C. K. Hwangbo, \u201cDesign of omnidirectional high reflectors with quarter-wave dielectric stacks for optical telecommunication bands,\u201d , vol. 41, pp. 3187\u20133192, 2002.","[34] J. Lekner, \u201cOmnidirectional reflection by multilayer dielectric mirrors,\u201d -, vol. 2, pp. 349\u2013352, 2000.","[35] Z. Y. Li and Y. N. Xia, \u201cOmnidirectional absolute band gaps in two-dimensional photonic crystals,\u201d , vol. 6415, pp. art. no.-153108, 2001.","[36] D. Lusk, I. Abdulhalim, and F. Placido, \u201cOmnidirectional reflection from Fibonacci quasi-periodic one-dimensional photonic crystal,\u201d , vol. 198, pp. 273\u2013279, 2001.","[37] W. H. Southwell, \u201cOmnidirectional mirror design with quarter-wave dielectric stacks,\u201d , vol. 38, pp. 5464\u20135467, 1999.","[38] B. Temelkuran, E. L. Thomas, J. D. Joannopoulos, and Y. Fink, \u201cLow-loss infrared dielectric material system for broadband dual-range omnidirectional reflectivity,\u201d , vol. 26, pp. 1370\u20131372, 2001.","[39] X. Wang, X. H. Hu, Y. Z. Li, W. L. Jia, C. Xu, X. H. Liu, and J. Zi, \u201cEnlargement of omnidirectional total reflection frequency range in one-dimensional photonic crystals by using photonic heterostructures,\u201d , vol. 80, pp. 4291\u20134293, 2002.","[40] D. Brady and D. Psaltis, \u201cControl of Volume Holograms,\u201d -, vol. 9, pp. 1167\u20131182, 1992.","[41] G. Barbastathis, M. Levene, and D. Psaltis, \u201cShift multiplexing with spherical reference waves,\u201d , vol. 35, pp. 2403\u20132417, 1996.","[42] T. Baba and M. Nakamura, \u201cPhotonic crystal light deflection devices using the superprism effect,\u201d , vol. 38, pp. 909\u2013914, 2002.","[43] T. Ochiai and J. Sanchez-Dehesa, \u201cSuperprism effect in opal-based photonic crystals,\u201d , vol. 6424, pp. art. no.-245113, 2001.","[44] M. Koshiba, \u201cWavelength division multiplexing and demultiplexing with photonic crystal waveguide couplers,\u201d , vol. 19, pp. 1970\u20131975, 2001.","[45] A. Shinya, M. Haraguchi, and M. Fukui, \u201cInteraction of light with ordered dielectric spheres: Finite- difference time-domain analysis,\u201d 1-& , vol. 40, pp. 2317\u20132326, 2001.","[46] A. Sharkawy, S. Y. Shi, and D. W. Prather, \u201cMultichannel wavelength division multiplexing with photonic crystals,\u201d , vol. 40, pp. 2247\u20132252, 2001.","[47] H. M. van Driel and W. L. Vos, \u201cMultiple Bragg wave coupling in photonic band-gap crystals,\u201d , vol. 62, pp. 9872\u20139875, 2000.","[48] H. B. Sun, Y. Xu, J. Y. Ye, S. Matsuo, H. Misawa, J. F. Song, G. T. Du, and S. Y. Liu, \u201cPhotonic gaps in reduced-order colloidal particulate assemblies,\u201d 2-, vol. 39, pp. L591\u2013L594, 2000.","[49] H. Kosaka, T. Kawashima, A. Tomita, M. Notomi, T. Tamamura, T. Sato, and S. Kawakami, \u201cSuperprism phenomena in photonic crystals: Toward microscale lightwave circuits,\u201d , vol. 17, pp. 2032\u20132038, 1999.","[50] H. Kosaka, T. Kawashima, A. Tomita, M. Notomi, T. Tamamura, T. Sato, and S. Kawakami, \u201cSuperprism phenomena in photonic crystals,\u201d , vol. 58, pp. R10096\u2013R10099, 1998.","[51] Foulger, S. H., P. Jiang, et al. (2002). \u201cPhotonic bandgap composites based on crystalline colloidal arrays.\u201d 223: 044-POLY.","[52] Foulger, S. H., P. Jiang, et al. (2001). \u201cPhotonic bandgap composites.\u201d 13(24): 1898-+.","[53] Perpall, M. W., K. P. U. Perera, et al. (2002). \u201cHigh yield precursor polymer for inverse carbon opal photonic materials.\u201d 223: 222-POLY.","[54] Smith, D. W., S. G. Chen, et al. (2002). \u201cPerfluorocyclobutyl copolymers for microphotonics: Thermo-optics, electro-optics, rare earth doping, and micromolding.\u201d 224: 063-POLY.","[55] Smith, D. W., S. R. Chen, et al. (2002). \u201cPerfluorocyclobutyl copolymers for microphotonics.\u201d 14(21): 1585-+."]}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0117","num":"0173"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"147pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":[{"entry":[{},"Appendix"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"r","radial coordinate in space"]},{"entry":[{},"A","area"]},{"entry":[{},"\u03bd","frequency"]},{"entry":[{},"k","wave vector"]},{"entry":[{},"\u03bb","wavelength"]},{"entry":[{},"c","speed of light"]},{"entry":[{},"t","time"]},{"entry":[{},"\u03c4","time delay"]},{"entry":[{},"m(r)","measurement at a single point r"]},{"entry":[{},"I(\u03bd, r)","spectral intensity distribution"]},{"entry":[{},"h(\u03bd, r)","filter function"]},{"entry":[{},"{overscore (S)}(\u03bd)","mean power spectrum"]},{"entry":[{},"{right arrow over (s)}","target spectrum vector"]},{"entry":[{},"{right arrow over (s)}","target spectrum vector estimate"]},{"entry":[{},"{right arrow over (m)}","measurement state vector"]},{"entry":[{},"H","transformation matrix"]},{"entry":[{},"W","cross spectral density function"]},{"entry":[{},"\u0393","mutual coherence function"]},{"entry":[{},"\u03c8","mode distribution"]},{"entry":[{},"\u03c6","orthonormal mode distribution"]},{"entry":[{},"\u03b4","delta function"]},{"entry":[{},"c","molecular concentration of the isample"]},{"entry":[{},"R","rotation operator"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"It will be understood that various details of the invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the invention. Furthermore, the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only, and not for the purpose of limitation, as the invention is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings of which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 7A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 11A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIGS. 11B and 11C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 13A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 14A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 14B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
