---
title: Nomination locking system and method
abstract: A method for locking a nomination item in a multi-user distribution scheduling system is provided. At least one nomination item, associated with a voyage, may be created and stored within a database. A lock object, associated with the nomination item, may be created to prevent concurrent modification of the nomination item. The nomination item may be modified and stored within the database, and then the lock object may be deleted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07730046&OS=07730046&RS=07730046
owner: SAP AG
number: 07730046
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20031222
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM\/RELATED APPLICATION(S)","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This patent application claims the benefit of four (4) U.S. Provisional Patent Applications: (1) Ser. No. 60\/435,279, filed Dec. 23, 2002; (2) Ser. No. 60\/435,280, filed Dec. 23, 2002; (3) Ser. No. 60\/435,351, filed Dec. 23, 2002; and (4) Ser. No. 60\/435,352, filed Dec. 23, 2002. These provisional patent applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. This application is related to U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application Ser. No. [TBD, Matter 402901], filed Dec. 22, 2003.","The present invention relates to nominations. More particularly, the present invention relates to a method for locking a nomination to preserve data integrity.","The sale and distribution of any bulk material requires coordination between various participants, including buyers, sellers, transporters, etc. For example, distribution scheduling practice within the oil industry typically involves several participants and many steps. Traders make deals with buyers and sellers which result in purchase contracts and sales contracts, respectively. Freight contracts may also be in place between transporters, buyers and sellers. These various contracts may be captured on paper at a minimum, and, at best, memorialized within a computer-based contracts system. Additionally, purchase and sales contracts may be summarized in purchase and sales listings, respectively, identifying the essentials of each contract, such as partner name, location(s), material, quantities, dates, etc. Schedulers use these purchase and sales listings, combined with their own knowledge of potentially available transportation facilities, to attempt to build nominations, also known as voyages, directly on a one-by-one basis. The schedule of nominations is typically built using a simple spreadsheet program, such as Microsoft\u00ae Excel\u00ae, for example.","It is not unusual practice for the scheduler to manually enter the schedule of nominations into a second computer system, such as a mainframe, legacy system, messaging system, etc., for communication to all the relevant participants. Unfortunately, even though freight contacts may already be in place between the transporter, buyer and seller, the scheduler typically does not have access to electronic freight contract data, and, consequently, may need to manually enter freight information into the schedule of nominations based on his own personal knowledge or, if available, hardcopy printouts of freight contacts. Furthermore, the scheduler usually does not have an overview of the usage of the sales, purchase or freight contracts to date, other than information reflected by his own personal records. While participants may provide updated usage information related to sales, purchase or freight contracts, the scheduler typically reflects these updates only within the schedule of nominations at best, and not, for example, within the second computer system.","Embodiments of the present invention provide a method for locking a nomination item in a multi-user distribution scheduling system. At least one nomination item, associated with a voyage, may be created and stored within a database. A lock object, associated with the nomination item, may be created to prevent concurrent modification of the nomination item. The nomination item may be modified and stored within the database, and then the lock object may be deleted.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","110","120","130","140","100"]},"Network  may be any type of communications network, including, for example, a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), the Internet, the public switched telephone network (PSTN), a national or international telecommunications network, or any combination of wired or wireless communications networks. These networks and combinations of networks include intermediate destination points, e.g. switches, routers, gateways, etc., that receive and retransmit the information across the network. Network  may be, for example, a data communications network using Internet Protocol (IP), Transmission Control Protocol\/Internet Protocol (TCP\/IP), and\/or HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP), a telecommunications network using Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) protocol, a wireless telecommunications network using Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), etc.","Data communications between scheduling system  and supply partners , transportation partners  and demand partners  may be bi-directional, i.e., information may be transmitted to, as well as received from, these partners over network . Various well-known authentication and data encryption techniques may be used to preserve an appropriate level of security in the public network context, including, for example, HTTPS (HyperText Transfer Protocol with Secure Sockets Layer), etc. These partners may communicate with scheduling system  though network  using network-enabled personal communication devices, such as, for example, desktop, notebook or laptop computers, pocket computers, personal digital assistants or PDAs, smart cellular phones, etc. These devices may also include a network interface to connect to network , such as, for example, a coaxial cable interface, a fiber-optic interface, a wireless network interface, etc.","Scheduling system  may include processor , memory , network interface (I\/F) , general data storage , database  and, in an object oriented embodiment, business object repository (BOR) , interconnected through general system bus . Processor  may be a general purpose microprocessor, such as the Pentium V microprocessor manufactured by the Intel Corporation of Santa Clara, California, or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (\u201cASIC\u201d) that embodies at least a part of the method, in accordance with embodiments of the present invention, in its hardware and\/or firmware. Scheduling system  may also include multiple processors , as shown in phantom outline in .","Memory  may be any memory device adapted to store electronic information, such as, for example, data and instructions adapted to be executed by processor , including Random Access Memory (RAM), etc., while general data storage , database  and BOR  may be non-volatile, mass storage devices, such as, for example, hard disks, CD-ROM R\/W, DVD-R, etc. In one embodiment, general data storage , database  and BOR  may be separate physical devices, while in another embodiment, general data storage , database  and BOR , may be accommodated within one, or more, physical devices.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"Scheduling system  may include software components expressing the functionality and dependencies of various business processes and data, typically architected according to well-known object-oriented programming (OOP) methods and constructs. Generally, these software components may include application programs and databases, interface libraries, etc., developed, in many cases, using object-oriented software development tools, such as, for example, SAP Software Development Kit (SDK Version 6.2, manufactured by SAP AG of Walldorf, Germany), etc.","In an embodiment, scheduling system  may include a plurality of business objects which encapsulate various business methods and data, while hiding structure and implementation details from higher-level software components, such as, for example, business applications. Generally, business objects may include data definitions, methods, operational rules and constraints, access specifications, etc., that are particular to a specific business component, process, logical construct, etc. Various interfaces may be defined to provide access to the methods and data associated with a particular business object, such as, for example, business application programming interfaces, or \u201cBAPIs\u201d.","Each business object may be created as an instance of a business object type. For example, each employee of a company may be represented by an instance of an Employee business object type. Business object types may be stored within a business object repository, such as, for example, BOR , etc., while business objects (also known as business object instances, object instances, objects, etc.) may be stored within a different database, such as, for example, database , etc. In an embodiment, business object  may include kernel layer , integrity layer , interface layer  and access layer .","Kernel layer  may include data inherently associated with business object . For example, an employee business object may include data representing an employee identification number, name, supervisor, business division, etc. Integrity layer  may include rules and constraints associated with the environment. Interface layer  may describe the implementation and structure of the various methods associated with business object , and may include one or more associated interfaces, such as, for example, business object interface . Access layer  may define various technologies that may be used to access business object , such as, for example, COM\/DCOM (component object model\/distributed component object model), RFC (remote function call), JAVA, CORBA (common object request broker architecture), etc.","In an embodiment, plurality of business object methods , i.e., business object method () . . . (M), etc., may also provide access to, or operate upon, data defined within kernel layer  of business object . In this embodiment, plurality of business object methods  may be constructed as function modules compatible with the Remote Function Call (RFC) protocol. Each function module may also be associated with a corresponding business object interface, such as, for example, business object interface . Plurality of business object methods  may be stored within a business object repository, such as, for example, BOR , or, alternatively, plurality of business object methods  may be stored within a remote network database.","In an embodiment, scheduling system  may plan the distribution schedule of bulk oil or gas product using nominations. Various information may be stored within data storage  or database , such as, for example, material supply and demand quantities, locations and dates, transportation system capabilities and availabilities, scheduling and nomination information, etc. Additionally, information describing supply partners , transportation partners  and demand partners  may also be stored within data storage  or database . Information may be entered into scheduling system  manually, using one or more data input interfaces, or created by one or more processes executing on processor . In one embodiment, information associated with various oil or gas contracts, such as, for example, sales contracts, purchase contracts, freight contracts, etc., may be entered into scheduling system  to form the basic data set from which the distribution schedule may be created. In another embodiment, sales contract information, purchase contract information, freight contract information, etc., may be imported into scheduling system , via network , from one, or more, other systems, such as, for example, a trading deal capture system. Various processes may execute on processor  to plan the distribution schedule of bulk oil or gas product, such as, for example, high-level applications, low-level functions, remote function calls, etc.","In one embodiment, these data may be represented by various data structures, such as, for example, a supply item data structure, a demand item data structure, a transportation item data structure, a distribution schedule data structure, etc., and stored, generally, within data storage . In another embodiment, these data may be represented by various database tables and stored within database , such as, for example, a supply item table, a demand item table, a transportation item table, a distribution schedule table, etc. In a further embodiment, these data may be represented by various classes and stored within data storage , or database , as instances of these classes, such as, for example, a supply item class, a demand item class, a transportation item class, a distribution schedule class, etc.","In yet another embodiment, these data may be represented by several different types of business objects, such as, for example, supply objects, demand objects, transportation objects, distribution schedule objects, etc., each defined by their corresponding business object type. Business object types may be stored within BOR , for example, while business object instances, or, more simply, business objects or objects, may be stored within database .","A supply object may include information associated with a particular quantity of oil or gas provided by a supply partner, such as, for example, a supply partner identifier, location identifier, material type, quantity, available dates, sales contract references, etc. Similarly, a demand object may include information associated with a particular quantity of oil or gas required by a demand partner, such as, for example, a demand partner identifier, location identifier, material type, quantity, available dates, purchase contract references, etc. A transportation object may include information associated with a particular transportation medium (e.g., marine vessel, train, pipeline, etc.) provided by a transportation partner, such as, for example, a vehicle identifier, owner identifier, location identifier(s), material type(s), capacity, available dates, freight contract references, etc. A distribution schedule object may include schedule information, such as, for example, a nomination identifier, vehicle identifier, scheduled quantity, supply partner identifier, demand partner identifier, transport partner identifier, nomination dates, geographic location data, etc.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},"Generally, sales, purchase and freight information, initially entered into scheduling system , may form a data set from which a distribution schedule may be created. In an embodiment, these data may be stored within database  as business objects, as described above. Accordingly, database  may contain supply objects, demand objects and transportation objects, as well as other types of objects or data. In one embodiment, the creation of a particular distribution schedule may begin with the identification of available resources. For example, distribution schedules are typically planned for a particular period of time bounded by a start date and an end date. Supply objects, demand objects and transportation objects, stored within database , may be identified as available objects, in part, based on temporal availability information stored within each object, i.e., the start date and end date during which time the resource is available. Other criteria, such as material type, geographic location, etc., may also be included in the identification of available resources.","For example, supply object start and end dates may represent the period of time during which oil or gas product is available for transportation from a particular location. Similarly, demand object start and end dates may represent the period of time during which oil or gas product is desired to be delivered to a particular location. Supply and demand objects may represent production facilities, storage facilities, refineries, etc. Transportation object start and end dates may represent the period of time during which the transportation resource is available for use. For example, a transportation object representing a train may include start and end dates defining the period of time during which the train is available for use, as well as location information describing the geographic extent of the train services (i.e., the rail line). Of course, marine vessels offer different geographic availability than trains, trains offer different geographic availability than pipelines, etc.","In an embodiment, general selection window  and tabbed selection window  may be presented to a scheduler to select available resources. General selection window  may include various selection criteria, such as, for example, general start date , general end date , transport system  and material . Tabbed selection window  may include several tabs  to select individual demand, supply, transportation and distribution schedule selection windows. The demand selection window, depicted in , may include demand start date , demand end date , location identifier , as well as other selection information.","The supply selection window (not shown for clarity) may include similar data, such as supply start and end dates, location identifier, as well as other selection information. The transportation selection window (also not shown for clarity) may include transportation start and end dates, location identifier, transportation mode, transportation carrier, shipper, vehicle reference, as well as other selection information (e.g., minimum availability, nomination relevance period, remaining capacity, etc.). The distribution schedule selection window (also not shown for clarity) may include various criteria controlling the creation, scope, etc., of the distribution schedule, such as schedule start and end dates, location identifier, vehicle identifier, nomination identifier, shipper, vendor, etc.","The scheduler may enter general selection criteria within general selection window , and then enter resource-specific information within tabbed selection window  by sequentially selecting tabs , labeled \u201cDemand Items,\u201d as \u201cSupply Avails,\u201d \u201cTransportation Avails\u201d and \u201cDistribution Schedule,\u201d respectively, and then entering the appropriate demand, supply, transportation and distribution schedule information, as desired.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"In an embodiment, the scheduler may be presented with variant selection window  to facilitate the selection of available resources. In this embodiment, general, demand, supply, transportation and distribution schedule selection information may be stored within database  as a variant. Selection of variant , for example, will automatically populate general selection window  and each tabbed resource selection window .","Using the selection information, scheduling system  then searches database  to determine available resources, such as, for example, available supply objects, available demand objects, available transportation objects, etc. As noted above, search constraints may include dates, locations, material types, etc. The search may be instantiated, for example, in response to a command selected by the scheduler. In one embodiment, a distribution scheduling interface may then be presented to the scheduler.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-8"},"Referring to , in an embodiment, distribution scheduling interface  may include, for example, distribution schedule window , demand window , supply window  and transportation window , as well as other windows or interface elements not shown for clarity. In one embodiment, available demand objects may be presented within demand window , and a subset of each available demand object's data may be displayed therein, such as, for example, a location identifier, a material type, a scheduled quantity, a reference document identifier (e.g., a purchase contract identifier), etc. Similarly, available supply objects may be presented within supply window , and a subset of each available supply object's data may be displayed therein, such as, for example, a location identifier, a material type, a quantity, a reference document identifier (e.g., a sales contract identifier), etc.","Both contract and stock positions may be represented by demand and supply objects. For example, a sales contract may specify that a particular quantity (e.g., 28,000 barrels) of light crude (e.g., material type C4) may be available at a specific location (e.g., EMPRESS), as represented by supply avail . Similarly, one or more purchase contracts may specify that a quantity of light crude may be required at one or more specific locations. For example, demand item  may specify that 15,000 barrels of material type C4 is required to be provided at WINDSOR, while demand item  may specify 13,000 barrels of material type C4 is required to be provided at SARINA. Stock positions may also be represented as well. For example, a supply object may define a particular quantity of available material stored in a tank farm, a demand object may define a particular quantity of material desired to be added to a tank farm, etc.","In one embodiment, available transportation objects may be presented within transportation window , and a subset of each available transportation object's data may be displayed therein, such as, for example, a vehicle number, vehicle availability start and end dates, a reference document identifier (e.g., a freight contract identifier), etc. For example, transportation avail  may specify that train \u201cTRN NGL002\u201d may be available under freight contract identifier \u201c4600000057\u201d and has the capacity to transport a specific quantity of material (assumed to be greater than the total demand items and supply avails for the purposes of illustration only; real trains are, of course, capacity-limited and would be constrained accordingly). In this example, supply avail , demand item  and demand item  are geographically-linked to a transportation system upon which transportation avail  may operate.","In one embodiment, distribution schedule window  may display information describing voyages associated with the available demand, supply and transportation objects. Accordingly, a schedule object may include information identifying the demand, supply and transportation objects forming the voyage, as well as other information (e.g., nomination information, etc.). For example, voyage  may include supply avail , demand item , demand item  and transportation avail . Supply avail , demand item  and demand item  may be represented by rows within voyage , while transportation avail  may be identified by one or more columns, such as, for example, \u201cVehicle\u201d and \u201cFCC-Doc\u201d columns (i.e., vehicle identifier and freight contract document identifier columns, respectively). Nomination key \u201c403\u201d may refer to a nomination object created after the voyage has been scheduled. In this example, a single available transportation object was used for voyage ; however, a portion of the transportation object's capabilities, or multiple transportation objects, may also be used. The construction of a voyage to distribute 30,000 barrels of C4 material from the EMPRESS location to the WINDSOR location using TRN 001 is described in more detail below.","Referring to , distribution scheduling interface  may include, for example, distribution schedule window , demand window , supply window  and transportation window , similar to the embodiment depicted, generally, within . In one embodiment, a supply object and a demand object may be pegged to create a voyage. For example, demand item  specifies that 30,000 barrels of C4 material (e.g., light crude) is to be delivered to the WINDSOR location under contract reference \u201c40000051,\u201d as depicted in demand window . The scheduler may first select this demand item, and then review the available supply objects, depicted within supply window , to determine whether a single supply object includes a sufficient quantity of C4 material to fulfill the requirements of demand item . In this example, supply avail  specifies that 50,000 barrels of C4 material may be available at the EMPRESS location under contract reference \u201c4600000062,\u201d and, consequently, may fulfill the requirements of demand item .","Accordingly, supply avail  may be selected by the scheduler. In one embodiment, the scheduler may then review the available transportation objects, depicted within transportation window , to determine whether a transportation object may be capable of transporting the material. In another embodiment, the selected demand and supply objects may be pegged to a voyage first, and the quantities balanced, if desired, and then the transportation object may be selected and pegged to the existing voyage. The latter embodiment is discussed in further detail below.","Manual pegging icon  may be selected by the scheduler, and, in response, scheduling system  may peg, or assign, demand item  to supply avail  to create a voyage having an associated schedule object, depicted, for example, as voyage  within distribution schedule window . Scheduling system  may also create a simulated pegging identifier (e.g., \u201c$00002\u201d) and a simulated nomination key (e.g., \u201c$00002\u201d) for voyage , as depicted within the Peg ID CN  and Nom Key  columns of distribution schedule window . These identifiers may be amended during the subsequent nomination process. Demand-supply pegging icon  may also be selected by the scheduler, and, in response, scheduling system  may peg demand item  to supply avail , within voyage , to represent loading, actualization, or other contractual requirements.","The schedule object may be stored within database . In an embodiment, scheduling system  may perform data checks to ensure consistency between the selected supply and demand objects (e.g., material type, available dates, etc.). For example, the transport system specified for each object may be checked to ensure that the demand location and the supply location have a common means of transportation (i.e., that it is physically possible to transport the supply material to the demand location). It may be noted that a transportation object has not yet been assigned to voyage , as indicated, for example, by the blank entries within the vehicle field of each row (e.g., vehicle identifier ).","In some cases, the demand and supply quantities may be equal, in which case no additional quantity balancing would be required. However, and as presented within this example, the demand quantity and the supply quantity are not equal (i.e., 50,000 barrels supplied but only 30,000 barrels demanded). In one embodiment, one or more additional demand items may be assigned to voyage  to balance the total supply quantity. In another embodiment, voyage  may be completed as currently assigned, which may result in the delivery of 20,000 barrels of excess material to the demand location (i.e., WINDSOR), or the loss of scheduling availability for these 20,000 barrels of material at the supply location (i.e., EMPRESS). Unfortunately, either of these results may create inefficiencies within scheduling system .","In a further embodiment, supply avail  may be initially entered as a plurality of smaller supply objects, such as, for example, five supply objects each having a quantity of 10,000 barrels. In this embodiment, three of these supply objects may be selected to match the 30,000 barrel quantity specified by demand item . In yet another embodiment, scheduling system  may split supply avail  into two, or more, supply parcels, as required and at the appropriate time in the scheduling process. Of course, the total quantity split among the supply parcels remains the same as the original supply object, i.e., supply avail .","Referring to , distribution scheduling interface  may include, for example, distribution schedule window , demand window , supply window  and transportation window , similar to the embodiments depicted, generally, within . In one embodiment, supply avail  may be split into supply avail  and supply avail  by entering the desired quantity into the quantity field of supply avail , such as, for example, entering 30,000 in place of 50,000 within supply window . Scheduling system  may recognize this entry as a request to split supply avail  into two supply parcels, resulting in supply avail  and supply avail  having quantities of 30,000 and 20,000 barrels, respectively, as depicted within supply window .","In one embodiment, supply avail  and supply avail  may be separate supply objects stored within database , while in another embodiment, supply avail  and supply avail  may represent a single supply object stored within database , in which the appropriate parcel information may be stored. After splitting supply avail  into supply avail  and supply avail , scheduling system  may then reflect the new quantity associated with supply avail , i.e., 30,000 barrels, within voyage . In one embodiment, the quantity associated with supply avail  may be considered to be a consumed portion, while the quantity associated with supply avail  may be considered to be an open portion. The quantities associated with supply avail  and demand item  are now equal, and the remaining 20,000 barrels may be available (i.e., \u201copen\u201d) for scheduling purposes once more (i.e., supply avail ). Parcels may be re-combined as well, allowing the scheduler to easily reconstruct a previous pegging scenario.","Referring to , distribution scheduling interface  may include, for example, distribution schedule window , demand window , supply window  and transportation window , similar to the embodiments depicted, generally, within . In one embodiment, a transportation resource may now be assigned, although the transportation resource may have been assigned at the same time that the supply and demand resources were assigned, as noted above. For example, the scheduler may select voyage  within distribution schedule window , then select transport avail  within transportation window , and finally select the manual pegging icon  to peg, or assign, transportation avail  to voyage . In an embodiment, data checks may be performed by scheduling system  to ensure consistency with demand item  and supply avail . It may be noted that the vehicle number associated with transportation avail  is now indicated within the vehicle identifier field  of each row of voyage  (i.e., \u201cTRN NGL001\u201d). Of course, and as depicted within , multiple voyages may be included within a distribution schedule.","In an embodiment, the scheduler may then solicit approval, or confirmation, of the distribution schedule from the various partners involved in each voyage, e.g., supply partners , transportation partners , demand partners , etc., by \u201cnominating\u201d the participation of each partner in each voyage. Nominations may be based upon the characteristics of each voyage within the distribution schedule, and each partner may agree to the proposed participation level, reject the proposed participation level, or offer a modified participation level to the scheduler. Nominations may be transmitted electronically (e.g., electronic mail, electronic document exchange, etc.) to the relevant partners, over network , and responses may be similarly received. Alternatively, other means of communication may be employed (e.g., facsimile, regular mail, telephone, etc.).","For example, the scheduler may create a voyage specifying that 30,000 barrels of C4 material should originate from the \u201cEMPRESS\u201d location on a particular date (i.e., voyage  including supply avail ). The scheduler may then send a nomination to the supply partner associated with supply avail  requesting participation according to the specifics of the voyage. The supply partner may accept, reject, or modify the nomination, for example, by proposing to provide a lesser quantity of material, e.g., 20,000 barrels, at that location and on that date.","After creating the distribution schedule, in an embodiment, the scheduler may select one or more voyages, displayed within distribution schedule window , and then select publish icon . In response, in one embodiment, scheduling system  may present a nomination interface to the scheduler to receive additional nomination information. Alternatively, in another embodiment, scheduling system  may invoke a background nomination process which may not require additional input from the scheduler. Scheduling system  may also create one or more nomination items, associated with the selected voyage(s), and store then the nomination item(s) within database .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIGS. 9-10"},"With reference to , in an embodiment, nomination interface  may include nomination information window  and nomination item window . Nomination information window  may include nomination data associated with the previously selected voyage, such as, for example, nomination key , nomination identifier , vehicle identifier , etc. Nomination item window  may display nomination items associated with previously selected voyages. For the purposes of illustration, a single voyage may be selected (e.g., voyage ), so that nomination information window  may display information associated with that particular voyage (i.e., voyage ) and nomination item window  may display associated nomination items (e.g., demand nomination item , supply nomination item ).","In this example, voyage  includes transport avail  having a particular vehicle identifier (i.e., \u201cTRN NGL001\u201d) which may be displayed as vehicle identifier  within nomination information window . Nomination identifier  may represent the name by which the voyage is typically known amongst the partners involved, and may be manually entered by the scheduler, or, alternatively, automatically generated by scheduling system . For example, the scheduler may choose to name voyage  \u201cRAIL_DECEMBER01\u201d, and may enter this name into nomination identifier . Prior to confirmation, nomination key  may include a simulated key, indicated, for example, by a numeric designator having a leading \u201c$,\u201d which may be replaced by a real key after conformation of the nomination. Generally, confirmation refers to acceptance of the terms of the nomination by the various partners associated with the voyage (e.g., supply partner(s), demand partner(s), transportation partner, etc.). In one embodiment, the scheduler may manually confirm the nomination, while in another embodiment, scheduling system  may automatically confirm the nomination based on electronic information received from each partner over network .","With reference to , in an embodiment, nomination interface  may include nomination information window , nomination item window , as well as pegged item window . Generally, nomination items may include both demand nomination items and supply nomination items, and these nomination items may be specifically pegged together. For example, demand nomination item  and supply nomination item  may be associated with demand item  and supply avail , respectively, of voyage . The scheduler may select demand nomination item  and supply nomination item , and then select demand-supply pegging icon  to peg these nomination items together. Pegged item window  may display pegged item , representing pegged demand nomination item  and supply nomination item . Additionally, changes made by the scheduler to demand nomination item  and supply nomination item  may be reflected within demand item  and supply avail , respectively.","Importantly, in an embodiment, scheduling system  may support multiple, concurrent users, or schedulers. Consequently, several schedulers may attempt to create distribution schedules including voyages that nominate the same available resources, i.e., the same available demand objects, the same available supply objects, the same available transportation objects, etc. For example, during the scheduling and nomination process, schedulers may peg supply objects to demand objects, split supply and demand object quantities over multiple parcels, assign a portion of the capacity of a transportation object to a particular voyage, etc., and, generally, modify the state of the available supply, demand and transportation objects within database . Without appropriate restrictions, data incoherency may result. Accordingly, in one embodiment, scheduling system  may create a lock object to preserve the integrity of the data stored within database .","In an embodiment, the lock object may include an identification of one or more data structures, or database tables and related fields, over which the lock object may operate. In another embodiment, the lock object may include an identification of one or more classes and related data, or one or more business objects and related data, over which the lock object may operate. For example, a lock object may be associated with one, or more, nomination items which may be associated with one or more voyages, each consisting of one or more pegged supply, demand and transportation objects. A lock object may be stored, for example, in a lock table within memory .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},"At least one nomination item, associated with a voyage, may be created () and stored () in a database. As discussed above with reference to , a plurality of demand, supply and transportation objects may be entered into database , from which a plurality of available demand, supply and transportation objects may be identified based upon a database search using availability criterion, such as dates, material types, locations, etc. The available demand, supply and transportation objects may then be presented to a user, or scheduler, using a graphical interface, for selection.","As discussed above with reference to , the scheduler may select one or more demand objects, from the available demand objects presented within demand window  of distribution scheduling interface , to begin scheduling a voyage. The scheduler may then select one or more supply objects to match the various characteristics identified within the selected demand object, such as material type, quantity, etc. The selected demand and supply objects may be pegged prior to the selection, and subsequent pegging, of an available transportation object, or, an available transportation object may be selected prior to simultaneously pegging all three selected objects. The scheduler may select a transportation object to match the various characteristics identified within the selected demand and supply objects, such as material type, quantity, etc. The selected supply object, the selected demand object and the selected transportation object may then be pegged to create a voyage having an associated distribution schedule object.","In an embodiment, the scheduler may then select one or more voyages, displayed within distribution schedule window , and select publish icon . In response, scheduling system  may create () at least one nomination item associated with the selected voyage, store () the nomination item within database , and, in one embodiment, present nomination interface  to the scheduler to receive additional nomination information, modifications, etc. The nomination item may be a demand nomination item (e.g., demand nomination item ), which may be correspond to a demand object of the associated voyage (e.g., demand item  of voyage ), or a supply nomination item (e.g., supply nomination item ), which may correspond to a supply object of the associated voyage (e.g., supply avail  of voyage ). Typically, the associated voyage may include both a demand object and a supply object, so that both a demand nomination item and a supply nomination item may be created () and stored () within database .","The nomination item may then be modified () by the scheduler. The modifications to the nomination item may not yet be committed to database , and may be held in a temporary data structure pending the outcome of the creation of the lock object.","A lock object, associated with the nomination item, may be created (). In one embodiment, the lock object may be created () when nomination interface  is presented to the scheduler (e.g., early lock), while in another embodiment, the lock object may be created () in response to an update, or save, command selected by the scheduler after the nomination item has been modified (e.g., late lock). Once created, the lock object may be stored within a lock table in memory . As discussed above, the lock object may be associated with at least one nomination item, which may be a supply nomination item associated with an available supply object, a demand nomination item associated with an available demand object, or other data. While one scheduler may be modifying a particular nomination item, and, consequently, the corresponding supply, demand or transportation data associated with that particular nomination item, the remaining schedulers may be prevented from storing modifications to these data by the lock object.","The nomination item may be stored () in the database. In an embodiment, after the lock object has been created (), the modified nomination item may be stored () within database  in response to an update, or save, command selected by the scheduler. The associated demand, supply or transportation data may also be modified accordingly. The lock object associated with the nomination item may then be deleted () from the lock table. A discussion of several aspects of multi-user scheduling follows.","A concurrent scheduler may select () a nomination item already stored within database , modify () the nomination item, and then attempt to store () the modified nomination item within database . However, in the late lock embodiment, just prior to the store attempt, scheduling system  may query the lock table to determine () whether a lock associated with that particular nomination item exists. If an associated lock does exist, then the concurrent scheduler may be prevented from saving the modifications to that particular nomination item. If an associated lock does not exist, then the concurrent scheduler may be permitted to store () the modifications to that particular nomination item.","However, scheduling system  may first perform a database read for that particular nomination item to detect () whether concurrent changes have been made to that particular nomination item, such as, for example, modifications stored by the first scheduler. If no concurrent changes are detected (), then the nomination item may be stored () within database . However, if concurrent changes are detected (), then the concurrent scheduler's modification may not be stored (). In either case, the lock object may then be deleted () from the lock table.","In an example, a first scheduler may create, select and then publish voyage , thereby creating demand nomination item  and supply nomination item , which the first scheduler may wish to modify. Concurrently, a second scheduler may select () supply nomination item  for modification purposes, such as to reduce the scheduled quantity of supply avail  for application to a different voyage, for example. In the late lock embodiment, first scheduler chooses to save his modifications to supply nomination item  just before the second, concurrent scheduler, so scheduling system  queries the lock table, determines () that an associated lock object does not exist, creates () the associated lock object in the lock table, fails to detect () a concurrent change to supply nomination object  within database , stores () supply nomination object  within database  and then deletes () the associated lock object from the lock table.","In a further example, the second, concurrent scheduler chooses to save his modifications to supply nomination item  while the associated lock object (created by the first scheduler) is stored within the lock table. Scheduling system  may determine () that the associated lock object is stored within the lock table, and may prevent the second, concurrent scheduler from storing his modifications to supply nomination item . In another example, the second, concurrent scheduler chooses to save his modifications to supply nomination item  after the associated lock object has been deleted () from the lock table. However, in this example, scheduling system  may detect () a concurrent change to supply nomination object  within database , because the value of supply nomination object  has changed during the time that the second, concurrent scheduler made his modification, i.e., e.g., from an initial value to a changed value reflective of the first scheduler's modification to database . In the early lock embodiment, however, the scheduler that accesses the nomination item first retains indefinite control, through the lock object and lock table, until his modifications are saved, or committed to database .","Several embodiments of the present invention are specifically illustrated and described herein. However, it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of the present invention are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIGS. 5-8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 9-10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
