---
title: Glycols as an adjuvant in treating wastes using the Molten Salt Oxidation process
abstract: An improved system and method for using polyethylene glycol (PEG) as a processing fluid additive for safely and effectively treating water-wet hogout propellant as well as any other water-wet propellants, explosives and hazardous wastes (solids and liquids) to make them compatible with the MSO process. The method includes the step of applying liquid PEG to the hazardous waste to create a slurry or feedstock that when fed directly into the MSO reactor vessel prevents the occurrence of smelt-water explosions due to the accumulation of dangerous levels of sodium chloride, and/or sodium sulfide in the molten salt bath. The PEG possesses special qualities that make it ideal for this purpose. It is a low cost, low viscosity, commercially available, non-hazardous (per OSHA standards), water soluble, low toxicity chemical that burns cleanly leaving little or no residue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07288234&OS=07288234&RS=07288234
owner: Department of the Navy as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07288234
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030226
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","1. Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to the treatment of hazardous waste and, in particular, to the use of a processing fluid additive for safely and effectively treating water-wet hogout propellant as well as any other water-wet propellants, explosives and hazardous wastes to make them compatible with the MSO (Molten Salt Oxidation) process.","2. Description of the Background","The dynamics of a smelt-water explosion may not be completely understood, but it has long been recognized that it is an event to be avoided. A black smelt explosion is caused by unevaporated water reacting with unburned residue or hot ash at the bottom of the boiler, says Esa Vakkilainen, senior research manager at recovery boiler specialist Andridz-Ahlasperon. For example, a black smelt boiler \u201cexplosion\u201d closed Sodra Cell's Norwegian kraft pulp mill at Tofte in September 2000. This resulted in around 80,000 tons of softwood and eucalyptus pulp being lost from market production, affecting both suppliers and customers.","There have been efforts to prevent smelt explosions in kraft mills as above. This is reflected in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,447,895 to Nelson et al., 4,106,978 to Nelson, 4,194,124 to Nutley et al., and 4,462,319 to Larsen. These patents suggest solutions in the form of (1) introduction of a liquid to rapidly cool the smelt bed (e.g. Nelson et al.), (2) introduction of a water-absorbing powder (e.g. Nelson, Larsen), and (3) irradiation of the smelt\/water interface to create non-explosive nucleate boiling (e.g Nutley et al.).","As a result of the foregoing efforts, it is known that polyglycols (polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol) can help to prevent smelt-water explosions in kraft chemical recovery furnaces. The ability of polyethylene glycol or \u201cPEG\u201d to prevent smelt-water explosions is described in U.S. Pat. No. 3,447,895 Nelson et al. The '895 patent discloses a method of preventing explosions in kraft chemical recovery furnaces due to water leaking into the molten smelt in the furnace. An aqueous quenching solution of polymeric glycol (polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol) is introduced into the furnace to rapidly cool the smelt to safe temperatures without itself causing an explosion.","The risk of smelt explosion also arises in the context of MSO waste treatment. The Molten Salt Oxidation (MSO) process is a thermal, flameless process that has the inherent capability of completely destroying organic constituents of mixed wastes (chlorinated solvents, spent ion exchange resin), hazardous wastes (PCB-contaminated oils), and energetic materials. The MSO process is commonly used for treatment of water-wet propellant and explosive wastes that are typically generated when a propellant or an explosive is removed from its casing using a high pressure water jet. One example of this is hogout propellant. However, smelt-water explosions are also able to occur in high-temperature furnaces\/reactor vessels during MSO waste treatment.","Thus, the ability of the polymeric glycols in preventing explosions in kraft chemical recovery furnaces would seemingly make them useful for the MSO process. However, the MSO process is quite different from that of a kraft chemical recovery furnace in that it is a chemical reaction process. The reactants, including solid, gas or liquid wastes concurrently with air, are introduced into a reaction medium, which is molten sodium carbonate or a blend of other salts at temperatures ranging from 700-1000 degrees Centigrade. The reaction medium may or may not enter the reaction, however, it serves as a host to generate combustion products and to facilitate or to catalyze the reaction between the oxygen in the incoming air and the combustion products. Therefore, the MSO process imposes a different set of requirements upon the reactants or feed streams than does a kraft chemical recovery furnace.","Consequently, it would be greatly advantageous to reduce\/eliminate the potential for smelt-water explosions that are able to occur in high-temperature furnaces\/reactor vessels during MSO by a process that employs polymeric glycol to prevent a smelt-water explosion due to the accumulation of dangerous levels of sodium chloride and\/or sodium sulfide in the molten sodium carbonate in the MSO reactor vessel. Sodium chloride and sodium sulfide are known to create a highly explosive smelt in kraft chemical recovery furnaces.","Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a method for reducing\/eliminating the potential for smelt-water explosions that are able to occur in high temperature furnaces\/reactor vessels during MSO waste treatment by use of a particular polymeric glycol in a particular manner to prevent a smelt-water explosion due to the build up of sodium chloride and\/or sodium sulfide in the molten sodium carbonate and the addition of water in the MSO reaction vessel.","It is another object to select a glycol for the process as described above that is uniquely-suited for MSO waste treatment, maximizing the desired combination of properties in the MSO context including water solubility, hygroscopicity, low volatility, thermal stability, good combustibility and clean burnout, low viscosity and lubricity, low toxicity and the ability to partition the energetic material to prevent massing.","According to the present invention, these and other objects are accomplished by a process for using polyethylene glycol (PEG) as a processing fluid additive for safely and effectively treating water-wet hogout propellant as well as any other water-wet propellants, explosives and hazardous wastes to make them compatible with the MSO process. The method includes the step of applying liquid PEG to the hazardous waste to create a slurry that when fed directly into the MSO reactor vessel prevents a smelt-water explosion due to the accumulation of dangerous levels of sodium chloride, and\/or sodium sulfide, and water. The PEG possesses special qualities that make it ideal for this purpose. It is a low cost, low viscosity, commercially available, non-hazardous (per OSHA standards), water soluble, low toxicity chemical that burns cleanly leaving little or no residue. It also prevents the propellant residue from sticking back together thus facilitating a uniform feedstock that can be conveyed using a pump.","The present invention is a processing fluid and method of using the same for safely and effectively treating water-wet hogout propellant as well as any other water-wet wastes using the MSO process.","Using the water-wet hogout propellant as an example, solid rocket propellant upon expiration of its service life is removed from the rocket motor casing by a high-pressure water jet. The resulting waste, referred to as \u201chogout propellant\u201d, typically contains a large excess of water. In order to prepare the hogout propellant for treating it using the MSO process the excess water is removed. However, it is not possible to remove 100 percent of the water from the hogout propellant in the dewatering process.","Feeding wastes containing liquid water into the molten carbonate bath used in the MSO process has the potential for a destructive \u201csmelt-water\u201d explosion. \u201cSmelt-water\u201d explosions are not completely understood, but they are known to be physical (i.e. flameless) explosions that result when water is converted supersonically into steam to produce a shock wave. Molten sodium carbonate by itself will not cause an explosion with water, but it will cause an explosion if it contains more than approximately 6 percent sodium chloride or about 12 percent sodium sulfide or a combination of sodium chloride and sodium sulfide. Sodium chloride, in particular, accumulates in the MSO salt bath due to the reaction of the sodium carbonate with the hydrogen chloride produced from the combustion products from the ammonium perchlorate (AP) oxidizer contained in the hogout propellant itself and in the residual water.","Referring to , there is illustrated a system for MSO waste treatment using PEG to prevent a smelt-water explosion. The system includes an initial treatment station  for removing excess water from water-wet hogout to make it compatible with the MSO (Molten Salt Oxidation) process. Treatment station  comprises a liquid filter bag  fitted into a perforated stainless steel basket , which in turn is fitted into a stainless steel drainage tank . The water-wet hogout propellant  is placed into a 5-micron polyproylene liquid filter bag  which is fitted into a perforated stainless steel basket , which in turn is fitted into a stainless steel tank . By filtration down through the filter bag  and basket , excess water  is drained and removed. The dewatered hogout propellant  is then removed from the filter bag  and is transferred to a grinding vessel  for creating a slurry  according to the present invention.","As also seen in , the present invention adds a processing fluid  to vessel  through an inlet at the front end to prevent a \u201csmelt-water\u201d explosion during treatment of the hogout propellant  in the MSO process. The processing fluid  is added to vessel  for grinding and mixing the water-wet hogout propellant  with an agitator and a homogenizer to produce a slurry  for the MSO process.","The processing fluid , in particular, is polyethylene glycol, or \u201cPEG\u201d. For example, PEG having an average molecular weight range of 380 to 420 (amw) and having the chemical formula, H\u2014(OCHCH)n\u2014OH where n has an average value of 8.7 is suitable for use. The n average value may vary within a range of 4.1 to 13.2 for an average molecular weight range of 190 to 630 without detracting from the efficacy of the invention. PEGs in the molecular weight range from 190 to 630 are ideally suited as a carrier for both homogenizing (size reduction\/slurrying) and feeding the ground hogout propellant  because they are liquids and have complete solubility with water in all proportions. Water solubility of the PEGs also facilitates the cleanup of equipment or environmental spills. The PEG is provided in liquid form because liquid PEG has a low toxicity. It is not a \u201cHazardous Chemical\u201d as defined by the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR 1910.1200. Liquid PEG forms an aqueous solution with water in all proportions.","The amount of liquid PEG  admitted to vessel  is controlled in accordance with the amount of residual water in the hogout propellant  to ensure a minimum concentration of 20 percent by weight PEG in the solution of water and PEG.","Once inside the grinding vessel , the PEG  acts as a humectant and tends to absorb water from the water-wet hogout propellant  during homogenization. Since water in the propellant makes the propellant difficult to burn, the displacement of the water improves the combustibility of the propellant in the MSO process.","Referring to , there is illustrated an MSO reaction vessel , and a pumping system for introducing the foregoing slurry  from vessel  into MSO reaction vessel . After the water-wet hogout propellant  has been fully ground with homogenizer and agitator and the PEG , the slurry  is charged into a 5-gallon stainless steel stockpot . The pumping system transfers the slurry  from stockpot  into a molten sodium carbonate bath  via a downcomer  in a reaction vessel  having a wall  formed of a nickel-chromium alloy such as Inconel 600 or other suitable material, pairs of resistance heaters  and alumina-silica insulation . Downcomer  may be a conventional downcomer in which the feed is mixed with air.","The pumping system further comprises a positive displacement metering pump  which pumps the slurry  at a metered flow rate into the molten sodium carbonate bath  in the reaction vessel  via the downcomer  at inlet . When the flow of the slurry  to the reaction vessel  is shut off, it is recycled to the stockpot  via a 3-way valve  and return line . Air for atomization and oxidation are admitted respectively into the molten sodium carbonate bath  in the reaction vessel  at inlets  and  of the downcomer . Inlet  is used for the oxidizing air and inlet  is used for the atomizing air. The off-gas including CO, CO, O, NOformed by the oxidation reaction, and Nare discharged at . Since the PEG has a low volatility and is thermally stable to approximately 300 degrees C., the PEG serves to carry the waste material into the molten sodium carbonate bath  before vaporizing or decomposing. Moreover, PEGs have lubricity and a low viscosity (depending on molecular weight have a viscosity at 210 degrees F. ranging from 4.3 to 10.8 centistokes). Thus, PEGs provide internal and external lubrication and facilitate the pumping of slurries of wastes in the PEGs using a positive displacement metering pump  such as the Seepex pump Model 0015-24 which has been certified for pumping propellants and explosives. Moreover, PEGs are noncorrosive to rubber thus do not cause the rubber binders used in propellants and explosives to swell or become sticky which is important for feeding. PEGs are inherently an anti-sticking agent that promotes homogenization of the hogout propellant for slurrying and pumping. It effectively partitions the slurried material and significantly slows settling in the process lines.","The molten salt bath  contained in the bottom of the reaction vessel  and into which the slurry waste is introduced can be of any known composition serving as a medium for treatment, and is typically an alkalai metal carbonate such as sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate or lithium carbonate, or mixtures thereof, e.g. a mixture of 50 percent NaCOand 50 percent KCO, by weight; mixtures of alkali metal carbonate such as sodium carbonate and alkali metal chloride such as sodium chloride, e.g. 10 percent NaCOand 90 percent NaCl, by weight and the like. For example, molten salt consisting of 100 percent molten sodium carbonate is contained in reaction vessel  at a temperature of about 900 degrees C.","The temperature of the molten salt bath  for carrying out the oxidation of the organic waste generally ranges from 870 degrees C. to 950 degrees C., e.g. ideally about 900 degrees C. and such temperature can be maintained by incorporating the molten salt reaction vessel  e.g. within pairs of electric resistance heaters  and alumina-silica insulation . A portion of the heat is generated by the oxidation reaction itself.","Sufficient air is fed concurrently with the waste, below the surface of the melt, to provide oxygen to assure complete carbon oxidation to carbon dioxide, which at 20 mole percent excess is 1.2 moles of air for every mole of carbon added. To maximize vessel life, the unit should be maintained at an operating temperature of about 900 degrees C. However, at temperatures exceeding about 950 degrees C. the reaction vessel  undergoes a rate of corrosion that greatly exceeds the normal rate of 0.015 inches per 1,000 hours at 950 degrees C. that has been reported. Furthermore, at temperatures exceeding 950 degrees C. the material properties of the nickel-chromium alloy material of the reaction vessel  are deteriorated resulting in a significant reduction in the material strength of the reaction vessel .","The PEGs contain oxygen (approximately 39 weight percent) to support the MSO combustion process in the reaction vessel . To provide additional oxygen dry air is injected at a feed rate ranging from 100 to 360 liters per minute concurrently with the waste feed stream via downcomer  into the molten salt bath . PEGs due to their chemical composition burn away completely and cleanly leaving virtually no residue (less than 0.05 percent). The low ash content of the PEGs should not contribute to residue buildup in the salt bath. It is desirable to have no buildup of ash in the salt bath from MSO processing.","During the combustion process the organic constituents of the waste materials are oxidized to carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, and water. The inorganic products resulting from the reaction of the molten salt with the halogens, sulfur, phosphorous, metals, and radionuclides introduced into the salt bath results in the buildup of the inorganic products in the sodium carbonate. The excess buildup of these products in the carbonate salt can result in a reduction in the efficiency of the system and can generate a highly explosive melt. The carbonate salt serves both as a chemical reagent and as an acid scrubber to neutralize and to retain any acidic by-products produced during the waste destruction process. As the carbonate content in the salt decreases, the efficiency of the process decreases and the carbonate salt must be removed from the reaction vessel  via outlet  and replaced.","Throughout the homogenizing and treatment processes it is nearly impossible for an operator to avoid contact with the carrier in the processing of the hogout propellant and other wastes that would use the PEGs as a carrier. Nevertheless, in reaction vessel  the PEGs pose no health hazards to the user. PEG is not a \u201cHazardous Chemical\u201d as defined by the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR 1910.1200. It is therefore essential that the carrier have a low toxicity. Also, the PEGs are not hazardous to the environment.","In light of the foregoing it should be apparent that the PEG processing fluid  and method of using the same in the context of the MSO process will prevent a \u201csmelt-water\u201d explosion. However, it should also be apparent that the key properties discussed above make the PEGs suitable for the MSO process because the MSO process is different from that of a kraft chemical recovery furnace and because of this, other properties are required for suitability as an adjuvant for processing of wastes such as the hogout propellant. No other polymers are known that possess this combination of key properties.","Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiments and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention, various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood, therefore, that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
