---
title: Implantable tissue repair device
abstract: An implantable tissue repair device has a cover and tissue regeneration material. The cover includes a top panel and a bottom panel joined together along a leading edge. The tissue regeneration material is positioned between the top and bottom panels. The cover includes a continuous sheet of biocompatible material extending across the edge and into the top panel and bottom panel. The cover is thicker along the leading edge than at least a portion of the top panel and thicker than at least a portion of the bottom panel. At least a portion of one of the panels covering the tissue regeneration material is thicker than a portion of the other panel covering the tissue regeneration material. A method of making the device is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07819918&OS=07819918&RS=07819918
owner: Depuy Products, Inc.
number: 07819918
owner_city: Warsaw
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031229
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"p":["This is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/195,794, entitled \u201cMeniscus Regeneration Device and Method\u201d, filed on Jul. 15, 2002 by Malaviya et al., which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60\/388,713, filed Jun. 14, 2002 and 60\/305,786, filed on Jul. 16, 2001, which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.","The present invention relates generally to surgical devices or implants for repairing and regenerating damaged or diseased fibrocartilage, and to a method of making such devices.","Articular cartilage is a type of hyaline cartilage that lines the surfaces of the opposing bones in a diarthrodal joint (e.g. knee, hip, shoulder, etc.). Articular cartilage provides a near frictionless articulation between the bones, while also functioning to absorb and transmit the compressive and shear forces encountered in the joint. Further, since the tissue associated with articular cartilage is aneural, these load absorbing and transmitting functions occur in a painless fashion in a healthy joint.","Human joints also have another type of cartilage present: intra-articular fibrocartilage. Intra-articular fibrocartilage can be present in the form of a discus articularis, that is, as a plate or ring of fibrocartilage in the joint capsule separating the joint surfaces (articular cartilage) of the bones of the joint. Such fibrocartilage is present, for example, in the temporomandibular joint, between vertebrae, and in the knee joint. In the knee joint, the intra-articular fibrocartilage comprises the meniscus, a crescent-shaped or semi-lunar-shaped disc of tissue that is located between the femoral condyles and the tibial plateau. The meniscus primarily functions as a shock absorber, absorbing the shock of compressive and shear forces in the knee. The meniscus also provides a substantially frictionless surface for articulation of the knee joint.","When cartilage tissue is no longer healthy, there can be debilitating pain in the joint. Cartilage health can be adversely affected by disease, aging, or trauma. The adverse effects of disease, aging and trauma can be in the form of a tear in the cartilage or in the form of a breakdown of the cartilage matrix.","In the knee, the meniscus is frequently damaged in twisting injuries. It is also damaged with repetitive impact over time. Meniscus degeneration can also occur by aging; as a person ages, the meniscus can become soft in places, so that even common motions like squatting can cause meniscal tears. Such degenerative or traumatic tears to the meniscus, which result in partial or complete loss of function, frequently occur in the white-white zone of the meniscus. Such tears result in unstable flaps of meniscal tissue in the knee joint causing, in the short term, severe joint pain and locking, and in the long term, a loss of mechanical function leading to osteoarthritis.","Common surgical procedures for treating meniscal damage include tear repairs and menisectomies. A tear repair is most commonly performed when the tear is a clean longitudinal vertical lesion in the vascular red zone of the meniscus. The basic strategy is to stabilize the tear by limiting or eliminating radial separation of the faces of the tear when the meniscus is load bearing. Many devices and surgical procedures exist for repairing meniscal tears by approximating the faces of the meniscus at the tear. Examples of such devices and procedures are disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos.: 6,319,271; 6,306,159; 6,306,156; 6,293,961; 6,156,044; 6,152,935; 6,056,778; 5,993,475; 5,980,524; 5,702,462; 5,569,252; 5,374,268; 5,320,633; and 4,873,976.","Menisectomies involve the surgical removal of part of the meniscus. Such procedures have generally been performed in cases of radial tears, horizontal tears, vertical longitudinal tears outside the vascular zone, complex tears, or defibrillation. Although menisectomies provide immediate relief to the patient, in the long term the absence of part of the meniscus can cause cartilage wear on the condylar surface, eventually leading to arthritic conditions in the joint. And when the resected tissue is from the avascular, white-white zone, the meniscus has little potential for self-regeneration. Thus, removal of meniscal tissue from the avascular white-white zone can result in partial or permanent loss of meniscal tissue, making the joint susceptible to osteoarthritis.","Attempts have been made to regenerate meniscal tissue following a menisectomy. Previous attempts have included the use of surgical techniques and implants. The surgical techniques have been used to provide vascularity to the avascular region through synovial abrasion or by providing vascular access channels. Implants have included fibrin clot, meniscal allografts (see Stollsteimer, G. T., et al., \u201cMeniscal allograft transplantation: a 1-to 5-year follow-up of 22 patients,\u201d Arthroscopy, 16(4): pp 343-7 (2000); Rodeo, S. A., \u201cMeniscal allografts\u2014where do we stand,\u201d Am J Sports Med, 29(2): pp. 246-61 (2001)), synthetic biodegradable polymer implants (with or without cells), a collagen scaffold device made at least in part from purified natural fibers that are cross-linked to form the device and scaffolds made from synthetic polymers.","A scaffold device made from purified collagen is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,042,610. The following U.S. Patents also disclose a meniscal augmentation device for a damaged meniscus: U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,735,903; 5,681,353; 5,306,311; 5,108,438; 5,007,934; and 4,880,429. All of these patents are incorporated by reference herein.","A scaffold device made from a synthetic polymer is described by Klompmaker, J., et al. in \u201cMeniscal replacement using a porous polymer prosthesis: a preliminary study in the dog,\u201d Biomaterials, 17(2): pp 1169-75 (1996) and by deGroot, J. H., et al., \u201cUse of porous polyurethanes for meniscal reconstruction and mensical prostheses,\u201d Biomaterials, 17(2): pp. 163-73 (1996). Medical applications for synthetic polymers are also disclosed in patents and patent applications, such as, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,224,892; 5,847,012 and 5,677,355.","The previous attempts at regenerating meniscal tissue have been problematic. While providing vascularity at the site of meniscal lesions may work well for more stable meniscal tears where very little tissue has been lost, providing vascularity where there is significant tissue loss (for example, due to menisectomy) has not consistently resulted in an acceptable outcome. See Arnoczky, S. P. and R. F. Warren, \u201cThe microvasculature of the meniscus and its response to injury. An experimental study in the dog, Am J Sports Med, 11(3): p.131-41 (1983); Fox, J. M., K. G. Rintz. and R. D. Ferkel, \u201cTrephination of incomplete meniscal tears,\u201d Arthroscopy, 9(4): p. 451-5 (1993). Although autologous fibrin clot can be effective in regenerating critical sized defects, Arnoczky, S. P., R. F. Warrren, and J. M. Spivak, \u201cMeniscal repair using an exogeneous fibrin clot. An experimental study in dogs,\u201d J Bone Joint Surg Am, 70(8): pp1209-17 (1988). The fragility of a fibrin clot presents clinical challenges in handling and securing the fibrin clot to the meniscal body to obtain a sufficiently long time-of-residence. Rode, S. A., \u201cArthroscopic meniscal repair with use of the outside-in technique,\u201d Instr Course Lect, 49, pp 195-206 (2000).","With meniscal allografts, there is a risk of disease transfer, poor revascularization, and infiltration and breaking down by host cells resulting in joint instability. In addition, the new tissue replacing the allograft may not be of sufficient quality to restore normal function. See: Sweigart, M. A. and K. A. Athanasiou, \u201cToward tissue engineering of the knee meniscus,\u201d Tissue Eng., 7(2) pp 111-29 (2001); Boss, A., J. Klimkiewicz and F. H. Fu, \u201cTechnical innovation: creation of a peripheral vascularized trough to enhance healing in cryopreserved meniscal allograft reconstruction,\u201d Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc, 8(3): pp 159-62 (2000); Siegel, M. G. and C. S. Roberts, \u201cMeniscal allografts,\u201d Clin Sports Med,\u201d 1291: pp 59-80 (1993).","Other meniscal implants may be difficult to handle during surgery and fixation or have insufficient mechanical properties for a sufficient time-of-residence in vivo.","It is also known to use naturally occurring extracelluar matrices (ECMs) to provide a scaffold for tissue repair and regeneration. One such ECM is small intestine submucosa (SIS). SIS has been described as a natural biomaterial used to repair, support, and stabilize a wide variety of anatomical defects and traumatic injuries. The SIS material is derived from porcine small intestinal submucosa that models the qualities of its host when implanted in human soft tissues. Further, it is taught that the SIS material provides a natural matrix with a three-dimensional structure and biochemical composition that attracts host cells and supports tissue remodeling. SIS products, such as OASIS.\u2122 and SURGISIS.\u2122, are commercially available from Cook Biotech Inc., Bloomington, Ind.","Another SIS product, RESTORE.\u00ae Orthobiologic Implant, is available from DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. in Warsaw, Ind. The DePuy product is described for use during rotator cuff surgery, and is provided as a resorbable framework that allows the rotator cuff tendon to regenerate. The RESTORE Implant is derived from porcine small intestine submucosa, a naturally occurring ECM composed primarily of collagenous proteins, that has been cleaned, disinfected, and sterilized. Other biological molecules, such as growth factors, glycosaminoglycans, etc., have also been identified in SIS. See: Hodde et al., Tissue Eng., 2(3): 209-217 (1996); Voytik-Harbin et al., J. Cell. Biochem., 67: 478-491 (1997); McPherson and Badylak, Tissue Eng., 4(1): 75-83 (1998); Hodde et al., Endothelium 8(1): 11-24; Hodde and Hiles, Wounds, 13(5): 195-201 (2001); Hurst and Bonner, J. Biomater. Sci. Polym. Ed., 12(11): 1267-1279 (2001); Hodde et al., Biomaterial, 23(8): 1841-1848 (2002); and Hodde, Tissue Eng., 8(2): 295-308 (2002). During nine years of preclinical testing in animals, there were no incidences of infection transmission from the implant to the host, and the RESTORE.\u00ae Orthobiologic Implant has not adversely affected the systemic activity of the immune system. See: Allman et al., Transplant, 17(11): 1631-1640 (2001); Allman et al., Tissue Eng., 8(1):53-62 (2002).","While small intestine submucosa is available, other sources of submucosa are known to be effective for tissue remodeling. These sources include, but are not limited to, stomach, bladder, alimentary, respiratory, and genital submucosa. In addition, liver basement membrane is known to be effective for tissue remodeling. See, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,379,710, 6,171,344, 6,099,567, and 5,554,389, hereby incorporated by reference. Further, while ECM is most often porcine derived, it is known that these various ECM materials can be derived from non-porcine sources, including bovine and ovine sources. Additionally, the ECM material may also include partial layers of the lamina propria, muscularis mucosa, stratum compactum, submucosal plexuses, and vascular submucosa and\/or other tissue materials depending upon factors such as the source from which the ECM material was derived and the delamination procedure.","The following patents, hereby incorporated by reference, disclose the use of ECMs for the regeneration and repair of various tissues: U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,379,710; 6,187,039; 6,176,880; 6,126,686; 6,099,567; 6,096,347; 5,997,575; 5,993,844; 5,968,096; 5,955,110; 5,922,028; 5,885,619; 5,788,625; 5,733,337; 5,762,966; 5,755,791; 5,753,267; 5,711,969; 5,645,860; 5,641,518; 5,554,389; 5,516,533; 5,460,962; 5,445,833; 5,372,821; 5,352,463; 5,281,422; and 5,275,826.","In one aspect, the present invention provides an implantable tissue repair device comprising a cover and tissue regeneration material. The cover includes a top panel and a bottom panel joined together along a leading edge. The tissue regeneration material is positioned between the top and bottom panels. The cover includes a continuous sheet of biocompatible material extending across the edge and into the top panel and bottom panel. The cover is thicker along the leading edge than at least a portion of the top panel and thicker than at least a portion of the bottom panel. At least a portion of one of the panels covering the tissue regeneration material is thicker than a portion of the other panel covering the tissue regeneration material.","In another aspect, the present invention provides an implantable tissue repair device comprising a cover and tissue regeneration material. The cover includes a top panel and a bottom panel joined together along a leading edge. The cover includes a plurality of laminae of biocompatible material. Some of the laminae of the cover extend across the leading edge and into the top panel and bottom panel. The cover has more laminae along the leading edge than at least a portion of the top panel and has more laminae along the leading edge than at least a portion of the bottom panel; and at least a portion of one of the panels covering the tissue regeneration material has more laminae than a portion of the other panel.","In another aspect, the present invention provides an implantable tissue repair device comprising a cover and tissue regeneration material. The cover includes a top panel and a bottom panel joined together along a leading edge. The tissue regeneration material is positioned between the top and bottom panels. The tissue regeneration material has a first side and a second side. The cover includes an outer group of laminae of biocompatible material and an inner group of laminae of biocompatible material. The laminae of the inner group extend over the first side of the tissue regeneration material. The laminae of the outer group extend across the leading edge, over the laminae of the inner group and over the second side of the tissue regeneration material.","In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of making an implantable tissue repair device. The method comprises providing a mold having a cavity, a surface surrounding the cavity and a groove spaced from the cavity. A first sheet of biocompatible material is placed on the surface of the mold with part of the sheet filling the cavity and part of the sheet received in the groove. Tissue regeneration material is then placed on the portion of the first sheet in the cavity. The first sheet is then folded along the portion in the groove to cover the tissue regeneration material with the sheet.","A method of making an implantable tissue repair device includes providing a mold having a cavity and a surface surrounding the cavity. A first sheet of biocompatible material is placed on the surface of the mold. Part of the sheet is received in the cavity. Tissue regeneration material is placed on the portion of the first sheet in the cavity. A second sheet of biocompatible material is placed over the tissue regeneration material. The first sheet is then folded over the second sheet.","An implantable tissue repair device or implant incorporating the principles of the present invention is illustrated in , - and . The illustrated tissue repair device or implant  is a cartilage repair device, and more particularly, a meniscal repair device. However, it should be understood that the principles of the present invention may be applied to other repair devices, such as those designed to be implanted to repair defects in fibrocartilage other than the meniscus.","As shown in , the illustrated tissue repair device or implant  comprises a cover  and a mass of tissue regeneration material . In the illustrated tissue repair device or implant , the mass of tissue regeneration material  is enclosed within the cover . The illustrated mass of tissue regeneration material  is wedge shaped, with an apex . It should be understood that the present invention is not limited to such a wedge-shaped device unless expressly called for in the claims. The shape of the space where the implant will be implanted primarily dictates the shape of the implant. For example, if the defect space has a circular shape with a certain depth, the principles of the present invention can be used to make an implant appropriate for that application.","As shown in  and , the cover  comprises a top portion or panel , a bottom portion or panel , and three side portions , , . All of the portions , , , ,  are integral in the illustrated embodiment. The cover  also has a fold line  along its leading edge, substantially at the apex  of the wedge of tissue regeneration material . As shown in , the cover is substantially flat along the leading edge , and the top panel  is parallel to the bottom panel . At the tissue regeneration material , the top panel  diverges from the bottom panel  at an angle \u03b1 shown in . In the illustrated embodiment, the angle \u03b1 is about 30\u00b0, but it should be understood that the invention is not limited to any particular angular relationship between the panels unless expressly called for in the claims.","In the illustrated embodiment, the tissue repair device  also includes a pair of outwardly-extending tabs or wings , . These tabs or wings ,  comprise integral extensions of the cover , and are provided for anchoring the tissue repair device  to native tissue such as native parts of the meniscus.  illustrates a tissue repair device of the present invention implanted in a meniscus , shown with sutures  affixing the device  to the native meniscus .","The cover  in the illustrated embodiment comprises a plurality of sheets of bioremodelable material affixed together. Generally, as shown in , there are two groups of sheet laminae: an outer group of laminae  and an inner group of laminae . The outer group of laminae  extend along the entire length of the top portion or panel , across the fold line  and along the entire length of the bottom portion or panel  of the cover . The outer group of laminae  also extend across the width of the cover . The inner group of laminae  extend only along the length and width of the top portion or panel  of the cover  to the fold line . As shown in , the inner group of laminae  are doubled over at the fold line  in the illustrated embodiment. However, it should be understood that some or all of the inner group of laminae  need not be doubled over, and could have edges underlying the outer laminae  at or near the leading edge  of the implant .","Thus, the outer group of laminae  cover the mass of tissue regeneration material . The top surface  of the mass of tissue regeneration material  is covered by the doubled-over inner group of laminae  and the outer group of laminae . The leading edge  of the implant comprises the doubled-over inner group of laminae  covered by the outer group of laminae . The part of the top portion or panel  overlying the top surface  of the mass of tissue regeneration material  is three times as thick as the part of the bottom portion or panel  covering the remainder of the mass of tissue regeneration material. The leading edge  and the trailing edge  of the implant  is four times as thick as the part of the bottom portion or panel  covering the mass of tissue regeneration material . The leading edge  presents no exposed edges of the individual laminae, while the edges of the laminae are exposed at the trailing edge  of the implant .","In the illustrated embodiment, the outer group of laminae  and inner group of laminae each comprises five layers of continuous sheets of biocompatible, bioremodelable material. Thus, the leading edge  and trailing edge each comprise twenty layers of continuous sheets of biocompatible, bioremodelable material. The part of the top portion or panel  overlying the mass of tissue regeneration material  comprises fifteen layers of continuous biocompatible, bioremodelable material. The part of the bottom portion or panel  covering the remainder of the mass of tissue regeneration material  comprises five layers of biocompatible, bioremodelable material. It should be understood that these numbers of layers are provided as examples only; fewer or more layers could be used for either the outer group of laminae  or the inner group of laminae . Individual layers are indicated at A-E and A-E in . It should be understood that for clarity of illustration,  illustrates the individual layers on only portions of the cover.","In the illustrated embodiment, each layer A-E and A-E comprises a sheets of small intestine submucosa (SIS). Each layer forming the outer group of laminae  and inner group of laminae  could also or alternatively comprise a biocompatible polymer, or a bioremodelable collageneous tissue matrix, such as another naturally occurring extracellular matrix material, all as defined below. Each group of laminae ,  could comprise a homogeneous laminate, or could comprise layers of different materials. For example, a hybrid structure like that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/172,347 entitled \u201cHybrid Biologic-Synthetic Bioabsorbable Scaffolds\u201d, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety, could be used. The groups of laminae ,  could comprise such materials alone or together with bioactive agents, biologically derived agents, cells, a biological lubricant or a biocompatible inorganic material, as defined below.","\u201cBiocompatible polymers\u201d is intended to include both synthetic polymers and biopolymers (e.g., collagen). Examples of biocompatible polymers include: polyesters of [alpha]-hydroxycarboxylic acids, such as poly(L-lactide) (PLLA), polyglycolide (PGA), self-reinforced PLLA and self-reinforced PGA; poly-p-dioxanone (abbreviated as PDO or PDS); polyhydroxyacids, poly(ortho esters); poly(beta-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB); poly (PHB-hydroxyvaleric acid), pseudo-poly(aminoacids) or polyiminocarbonates; poly(glycolide-co-trimethylene carbonate); polycaprolactone (PCL); polyvinyl alcohol (PVA); polyethylene oxide (PEO); polymers disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,333,029 and 6,355,699; and any other bioresorbable and biocompatible polymer, co-polymer or mixture of polymers or co-polymers that are utilized in the construction of prosthetic implants (e.g. 85:15 PLLA:PGA, 90:10 PGA:PLLA, or any polymer or co-polymer listed above in combination with a non-degradable material, or any combination of the above at any co-polymer ratio.) In addition, as new biocompatible, bioresorbable materials are developed, it is expected that at least some of them will be useful materials from which orthopaedic devices may be made. It should be understood that the above materials are identified by way of example only, and the present invention is not limited to any particular material unless expressly called for in the claims.","\u201cBioremodelable collageneous tissue matrix\u201d is intended to include matrices derived from native tissue selected from the group consisting of skin, artery, vein, pericardium, heart valve, dura mater, ligament, bone, cartilage, bladder, liver, stomach, fascia and intestine, tendon, whatever the source. Although \u201cnaturally occurring bioremodelable collageneous tissue matrix\u201d is intended to refer to matrix material that has been cleaned, processed, sterilized, and optionally crosslinked, it is not within the definition of a naturally occurring bioremodelable collageneous tissue matrix to purify the natural fibers and reform a matrix material from purified natural fibers. The term \u201cbioremodelable collageneous tissue matrices\u201d includes \u201cextracellular matrices\u201d within its definition.","\u201cNaturally-occurring extracellular matrix material(s)\u201d or \u201cECM\u201d refers to collagen scaffolds for tissue repair and regeneration that have been derived from vertebrate tissue. One such ECM material that may be used for cartilage regeneration is submucosa, and small intestine submucosa (SIS) in particular. As used herein, \u201cSIS\u201d is intended to include small intestine submucosa unless otherwise limited. Moreover, as used herein, \u201cECM\u201d is intended to include all SIS, as well as materials made from the other sources of submucosa (e.g. bladder, stomach and liver tissue from bovine, ovine and porcine sources) and materials derived from liver basement membrane (from whatever source) unless otherwise limited. For the purposes of this invention, it is within the definition of a naturally occurring ECM to clean, delaminate, and\/or comminute the ECM, to cross-link the collagen within the ECM, and to form a foam or other structure from the ECM. It is also within the definition of naturally occurring ECM to fully or partially remove one or more components or subcomponents of the naturally occurring matrix. However, it is not within the definition of a naturally occurring ECM to extract or separate and purify the natural components or subcomponents (e.g. collagen or growth factor) and reform a matrix material from these extracted and purified components or subcomponents. Also, while reference is made to SIS, it is understood that other naturally occurring ECMs such as stomach, bladder, alimentary, respiratory, and genital submucosa, and liver basement membrane, for example, whatever the source (e.g. bovine, porcine, ovine, etc.) are within the scope of this invention. Thus, in this application, the terms \u201cnaturally occurring extracellular matrix\u201d or \u201cnaturally occurring ECM\u201d are intended to refer to extracellular matrix material that has been cleaned, disinfected, sterilized, and optionally cross-linked.","\u201cBioactive agents\u201d include one or more of the following: chemotactic agents; therapeutic agents (e.g., antibiotics, antimicrobials, steroidal and non-steroidal analgesics and anti-inflammatories, anti-rejection agents such as immunosuppressants and anti-cancer drugs); various proteins (e.g., short chain peptides, active or inactive peptides, bone morphogenic proteins, glycoproteins and lipoproteins); cell attachment mediators; biologically active ligands; integrin binding sequence; ligands; various growth and\/or differentiation agents (e.g., epidermal growth factor, IGF-I, IGF-II, TGF-\u03b2 I-III, growth and differentiation factors, vascular endothelial growth factors, fibroblast growth factors, platelet derived growth factors, insulin-like growth factor and transforming growth factors, parathyroid hormone, parathyroid hormone related peptide, bFGF; TGFsuperfamily factors; bone morphogenetic proteins; BMP-2; BMP-4; BMP-6; BMP-12; sonic hedgehog; GDF5 (also known as BMP-14 or MP-52 or CDMP-1); GDF6; GDF8; CDMP-2; CDMP-3; PDGF); small molecules or protein equivalents that affect the upregulation of specific growth factors or other processes occurring during a healing response (e.g. TP508 and Chrysalin\u00ae both available from OrthoLogic, Tempe, Ariz.); tenascin-C; hyaluronic acid; chondroitin sulfate; fibronectin; decorin; thromboelastin; thrombin-derived peptides; heparin-binding domains; heparin; heparan sulfate; DNA fragments and DNA plasmids as sole constituents or when incorporated into appropriate vectors, such as viral constructs. If other such substances have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field, it is anticipated that at least some of these substances will have use in the present invention, and such substances should be included in the meaning of \u201cbioactive agent\u201d and \u201cbioactive agents\u201d unless expressly limited otherwise.","\u201cBiologically derived agents\u201d include one or more of the following: bone (autograft, allograft, and xenograft) and derivates of bone; cartilage (autograft, allograft and xenograft), including, for example, meniscal tissue, and derivatives; ligament (autograft, allograft and xenograft) and derivatives; derivatives of intestinal tissue (autograft, allograft and xenograft), including for example submucosa; derivatives of stomach tissue (autograft, allograft and xenograft), including for example submucosa; derivatives of bladder tissue (autograft, allograft and xenograft), including for example submucosa; derivatives of alimentary tissue (autograft, allograft and xenograft), including for example submucosa; derivatives of respiratory tissue (autograft, allograft and xenograft), including for example submucosa; derivatives of genital tissue (autograft, allograft and xenograft), including for example submucosa; derivatives of liver tissue (autograft, allograft and xenograft), including for example liver basement membrane; derivatives of skin (autograft, allograft and xenograft); platelet rich plasma (PRP), platelet poor plasma, bone marrow aspirate, demineralized bone matrix, insulin-like-growth factor, whole blood, fibrin and blood clot. Purified ECM and other collagen sources are also intended to be included within \u201cbiologically derived agents.\u201d If other such substances have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field, it is anticipated that at least some of these substances will have use in the present invention, and such substances should be included in the meaning of \u201cbiologically-derived agent\u201d and \u201cbiologically-derived agents\u201d unless expressly limited otherwise. It should be understood that the above agents are identified by way of example only, and the present invention is not limited to any particular agent unless expressly called for in the claims.","\u201cCells\u201d include one or more of the following: any connective tissue cells; chondrocytes; fibrochondrocytes or any cells from fibrocartilage tissues such as meniscus and intervertebral disks (specifically the annulus fibrosus); osteocytes; osteoblasts; osteoclasts; synoviocytes; fibroblasts (including fibroblasts originating from ligaments, tendons, skin, or other tissues); bone marrow cells; mesenchymal cells; stromal cells; stem cells; embryonic stem cells; precursor cells derived from adipose tissue; peripheral blood progenitor cells; stem cells isolated from adult, adolescent, neo-natal, or fetal tissues; genetically transformed cells; a combination of any connective tissue cell type and other cells; a combination of chondrocytes and other cells; a combination of fibrochondrocytes and other cells; a combination of osteocytes and other cells; a combination of synoviocytes and other cells; a combination of fibroblasts and other cells; a combination of bone marrow cells and other cells; a combination of mesenchymal cells and other cells; a combination of stromal cells and other cells; a combination of stem cells and other cells; a combination of embryonic stem cells and other cells; a combination of precursor cells isolated from adult tissue and other cells; a combination of peripheral blood progenitor cells and other cells; a combination of stem cells isolated from adult, adolescent, neo-natal, or fetal tissues and other cells; and a combination of genetically transformed cells and other cells. If other cells are found to have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field, it is anticipated that at least some of these cells will have use in the present invention, and such cells should be included within the meaning of \u201ccell\u201d and \u201ccells\u201d unless expressly limited otherwise. Illustratively, in one example of embodiments that are to be seeded with living cells such as chondrocytes, a sterilized implant may be subsequently seeded with living cells and packaged in an appropriate medium for the cell type used. For example, a cell culture medium comprising Dulbecco's Modified Eagles Medium (DMEM) can be used with standard additives such as non-essential amino acids, glucose, ascorbic acid, sodium pyruvate, fungicides, antibiotics, etc., in concentrations deemed appropriate for cell type, shipping conditions, etc.","\u201cBiological lubricants\u201d include: hyaluronic acid and its salts, such as sodium hyaluronate; glycosaminoglycans such as dermatan sulfate, heparan sulfate, chondroiton sulfate and keratan sulfate; synovial fluid and components of synovial fluid, including as mucinous glycoproteins (e.g. lubricin), vitronectin, tribonectins, articular cartilage superficial zone proteins, surface-active phospholipids, lubricating glycoproteins I, II; and rooster comb hyaluronate. \u201cBiological lubricant\u201d is also intended to include commercial products such as ARTHREASE\u2122 high molecular weight sodium hyaluronate, manufactured by Bio-Technology General (Israel) Ltd., of Rehovot, Israel; SYNVISC\u00ae Hylan G-F 20, manufactured by Biomatrix, Inc., of Ridgefield, N.J. and distributed by Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals of Philadelphia, Pa.; HYLAGAN\u00ae sodium hyaluronate, available from Sanofi-Synthelabo, Inc., of New York, N.Y., manufactured by FIDIA S.p.A., of Padua, Italy; and HEALON\u00ae sodium hyaluronate, available from Pharmacia Corporation of Peapack, N.J. in concentrations of 1%, 1.4% and 2.3% (for opthalmologic uses). If other such substances have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field, it is anticipated that at least some of these substances will have use in the concepts of the present disclosure, and such substances should be included in the meaning of \u201cbiological lubricant\u201d and \u201cbiological lubricants\u201d unless expressly limited otherwise.","\u201cBiocompatible inorganic material(s)\u201d include materials such as hydroxyapatite, all calcium phosphates, alpha-tricalcium phosphate, beta-tricalcium phosphate, calcium carbonate, barium carbonate, calcium sulfate, barium sulfate, polymorphs of calcium phosphate, ceramic particles, and combinations of such materials. If other such substances have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field, it is anticipated that at least some of these substances will have use in the concepts of the present disclosure, and such substances should be included in the meaning of \u201cbiocompatible inorganic material\u201d and \u201cbiocompatible inorganic materials\u201d unless expressly limited otherwise.","The cover  of the implant  may be hardened or toughened as disclosed in the following United States Patent Applications which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties: Ser. No. 10\/195,719 entitled \u201cDevices From Naturally Occurring Biologically Derived Materials\u201d and Ser. No. 10\/195,794, entitled \u201cMeniscus Regeneration Device and Method\u201d.","The cover  of the implant  could also include fixating members such as: a length of bioresorbable suture; a bioresorbable barbed dart; a bioresorbable tack; a bioresorbable backstop; or a bioresorbable locking member, as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/195,344 entitled \u201cUnitary Surgical Device and Method\u201d, (now U.S. Pat. No. 7,163,563) which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The mass of tissue regeneration material  is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment, the mass of tissue regeneration material  is wedge shaped, although it should be understood that other shapes are within the scope of the invention. For example, as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/195,794, the mass of tissue regeneration material could comprise rolls of comminuted SIS.","The mass of tissue regeneration material  is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment, the mass of tissue regeneration material  is wedge shaped, although it should be understood that other shapes are within the scope of the invention. For example, as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/195,794, the mass of tissue regeneration material could comprise rolls of comminuted SIS.","In the illustrated embodiment, the mass of tissue regeneration material  comprises comminuted SIS material or SIS foam, as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/195,354 entitled \u201cPorous Extracellular Matrix Scaffold and Method\u201d, filed by Malaviya et al., which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The mass or plug of tissue regeneration material  may also or alternatively comprise comminuted and\/or lyophilized naturally occurring ECM (e.g., SIS) with the desired porosity and material density. The material density and\/or porosity of the mass or plug may be varied to control cell migration and proliferation. Additional examples of materials that are usable for the mass of tissue regeneration material include ECM (e.g., SIS) powder, ECM (e.g., SIS) fibers, ECM (e.g., SIS) threads, ECM (e.g., SIS) mesh, ECM (e.g., SIS) wovens, ECM (e.g., SIS) non-wovens, ECM (e.g., SIS) braided materials, ECM (e.g., SIS) solutions, ECM (e.g., SIS) gel, ECM (e.g., SIS) paste, ECM (e.g., SIS) foam, and combinations of such materials. For the powder, solutions, gel and paste forms of SIS, the material may be prepared as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,352,463, entitled \u201cTissue Graft for Surgical Reconstruction of a Collagenous Meniscus and Method Therefor\u201d, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In addition, unless expressly limited by the claims, the mass of tissue regeneration material could also comprise bioremodelable collageneous tissue matrices, either alone or in combination with an ECM. Moreover, the mass of tissue regeneration material could comprise a hybrid of a biocompatible polymer with and ECM or bioremodelable collageneous tissue matrix, as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10\/195,341, entitled \u201cHybrid Biologics\/Synthetic Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffolds\u201d and 10\/172,347 entitled \u201cHybrid Biologic-Synthetic Bioabsorbable Scaffolds\u201d, which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties. It should be understood that separate reference in the above list to the forms of ECM should not be taken to imply that the listed references are exclusive; for example, ECM non-wovens, ECM threads and ECM foam may all include ECM fibers.","The mass of tissue regeneration material  may also include bioactive agents, biologically derived agents, cells, a biological lubricant or a biocompatible inorganic material, as defined above.","An apparatus  for making the illustrated tissue repair device or implant  is shown in . The apparatus  comprises a mold , a vacuum fixture , a nipple fitting , a fixture post  and a fixture base . The mold  includes a cavity , an elongate groove  spaced from the cavity  and a plurality of air vents  across the surface of the mold. The air vents  extend through the thickness of the mold and communicate with a plenum  in the vacuum fixture . The nipple fitting  also communicates with the plenum . A suitable hose (not shown) and vacuum pump (not shown) are connected to the nipple fitting  to draw air through the air vents , into the plenum  and out through the nipple fitting .","The mold cavity  is shaped to correspond generally with the shape of the mass of tissue regeneration material . As described in more detail below, the mold groove  is used to define the fold line or leading edge  of the implant .","The steps of making the implant  are illustrated in . First, individual layers of thin, moist, flexible sheets of the cover material, such as SIS, are laid out on top of each other and partially laminated by hand pressure to form the outer group of laminae  into an outer laminate sheet. In the illustrated embodiment, five thin sheets of SIS are layered together to form the outer group  of laminae into the outer laminate sheet. This outer laminate sheet (that is, the outer group  of laminae) is then laid on the top surface of the mold . The outer laminate sheet comprising has an area generally great enough to cover the entire top surface of the mold . The vacuum pulls the outer laminate sheet against the surface of the mold and into the cavity . Part of the outer laminate sheet also lays in the groove . At the end of this step in the manufacturing process, the outer laminate sheet generally conforms to the shape of the top surface of the mold , as shown in .","Next, the mass of tissue regeneration material  is placed in the cavity  that is lined by the outer laminate, as shown in . The mass of tissue regeneration material can be pre-shaped or could comprise loose particles.","Next, individual layers of moist, flexible sheets of the cover material, such as SIS, are laid out on top of each other and partially laminated by hand pressure to form the inner group of laminae  into an inner laminate sheet. In the illustrated embodiment, five thin sheets of SIS are layered together to form the inner laminate sheet (that is, the inner group of laminae ). This inner laminate sheet is then laid on top of the outer laminate sheet and the mass of tissue regeneration material  as shown in . The inner laminate sheet has an area generally great enough to cover the entire surface of the outer laminate sheet and the mass of tissue regeneration material . As the inner laminate sheet is laid flat on the mold , the vacuum pulls the inner laminate sheet against the surfaces of the outer laminate sheet and the mass of tissue regeneration material. Part of the inner laminate sheet lays in the groove  as well.","Next, the outer laminate sheet and inner laminate sheet are folded along the portions received in the groove , back over the mass of tissue regeneration material . As shown in , the result is a structure having the greatest number of layers or laminae of the cover material at the leading and trailing edges , .","The raw implant may then be high pressure laminated while in the mold  and dried while still in the mold  in a vacuum drying bed. This drying step may still leave the mass of tissue regeneration material in a wet state. The semi-finished implant may then be lyophilized to dry the mass of tissue regeneration material. Finally, the cover may be trimmed to form the implant as shown in . It is expected that standard disinfection and sterilization techniques may be used with the implants produced by this method.","It should be understood that the above-described method of making the implant is provided as an example only. The invention is not limited to any particular method unless expressly called for in the claims.","It is anticipated that several different sizes and shapes of implants  would be made available to account for differences in the amount of tissue removed in a menisectomy. Accordingly, there would also be several different molds provided to produce these different sizes of implants . Accordingly, there would also be several different cutting dyes provided to produce these different implants.","It should be understood that the above-described manufacturing process is provided as an example only. The present invention is not limited to this process unless expressly set forth in the claims.","To use the implant of the present invention, the surgeon would perform a partial menisectomy to remove diseased or damaged meniscal tissue. The implant  would be hydrated and then delivered to the site of the defect and fixated to the native meniscal tissue using suture or other fixating mechanisms. To deliver the implant  arthroscopically, devices may be used; like those disclosed in the following United States patent applications, which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/610,287 entitled Slide and Kit for Delivering Orthopaedic Implants (filed Jun. 30, 2003) and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 60\/483,804 entitled Instrument for Delivery of Implant (filed Jun. 30, 2003). However, the present invention is not limited to any particular surgical technique or surgical instrument unless expressly set forth in the claims.","If there is sufficient native meniscal tissue present, the wings ,  may be cut off the implant  and the implant fixated as shown in . If insufficient native meniscal tissue is present, such as if the implant  is to be affixed near the posterior horn of the meniscus , one of the wings ,  may be cut off and the other left. As shown in , the surgeon can then use the remaining wing ( in ) to fix the implant directly to the patient's tibia , for example by inserting a screw  through the wing  and into the tibia .","Use of the implant of the present invention may be accompanied by use of a biological lubricant, as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/195,606 entitled \u201cCartilage Repair and Regeneration Device and Method\u201d and 10\/195,334 entitled \u201cCartilage Repair and Regeneration Scaffold and Method\u201d, incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.","A tissue repair device or implant  made according to the above described process was tested as follows. The device was implanted in a meniscal defect of a goat knee. The goat knee and implant were placed in a test apparatus with the knee joint at about 135\u00b0 of flexion. Axial compression of 70+\/\u221230 pounds was applied as the knee was moved through 5\u00b0 of flexion\/extension and as the tibia was translated +\/\u2212\u215b inch in the anterior\/posterior direction. The test was conducted for 100,000 cycles at 2 Hz, with an intermittent phosphate buffered saline (PBS, pH 7.2) mist. At the end of the test, the implant lost only 6.9+\/\u22121.3% of its dry weight. There were no incidences of the implant delaminating at the leading edge ; the only delamination that occurred was at the periphery of the implant. However, the implant did not fail because it was held together at the site of delamination by sutures.","Thus, the implant of the present invention is mechanically robust and should be capable of withstanding handling and hydration during implantation without undergoing delamination.","While only a specific embodiment of the invention has been shown, it is apparent that various alternatives and modifications can be made thereto. For example, the shape of the implant could be modified for use in replacing resected tissue from other joints, such as intra-articular cartilage in the temporomandibular joint or between vertebrae, for example. Moreover, those skilled in the art will also recognize that certain additions can be made to the illustrated embodiment. It is, therefore, the intention in the appended claims to cover all such alternatives, modifications and additions as may fall within the true scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED EMBODIMENT"],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention will be better understood by reference to the figures of the drawings wherein like reference numbers denote like parts throughout and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1-2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1-3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 1-4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 1-5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 8A","FIGS. 1-5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIGS. 1-5","FIG. 3"],"b":["9","9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIGS. 1-5"],"b":"9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"],"b":["11","11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 10-11","FIG. 10"],"b":["12","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 10-12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 14","FIGS. 10-12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIGS. 10-12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIGS. 10-12"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
