---
title: System and method for customizing note flags
abstract: A method and system for customizing note flags allows a user to change the look or “feel” of a note flag. A user can be provided with several options in order to create note flags that are visually distinguishable from one another. In this way, the note flags can be used to visually distinguish a first note or first set of notes from a second note or second set of notes. The method and system can also link note flags with a particular action or operation within a document editing module or with action or an operation in another application program relative to a document editing module. In other words, a note flag can initiate an operation in another application program or within the document editing module (or both) when a particular note flag is selected by a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07793233&OS=07793233&RS=07793233
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07793233
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030312
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS","Alternative Embodiments","CONCLUSION"],"p":["The present invention relates to creating notes in electronic documents through typewritten text or handwritten text, and more specifically, it relates to marking notes with note flags and customizing these note flags so that some notes in a group of notes are visually distinguishable from the group.","One of the simplest methods of recording and communicating information is the traditional method of writing the information down on a piece of paper with a writing instrument such as a pen. Writing information by hand on a piece of paper is inexpensive and can be done quickly and easily with little preparation. The traditional method is also flexible in that a writer can generally write in any format anywhere on the page. One of the limitations with handwritten work is that it is not easily manipulated or transferred to other contexts. In other words, changing or transferring a piece of handwritten text typically requires rewriting the text on another medium.","Handwritten notes are often rewritten with personal computers. Specifically, with the widespread use of personal computers, textual information often is recorded using word processing software running on a personal computer. The advantage of such electronic methods for recording information is that the information can be easily stored and transferred to other remote computing devices and electronic media. Such electronically recorded text can also be easily corrected, modified, and manipulated in a variety of different ways.","Typical computer systems, especially computer systems using graphical user interface (GUI) systems such as Microsoft WINDOWS, are optimized for accepting user input from one or more discrete input devices. Common input devices include a keyboard for entering text and a pointing device, such as a mouse with one or more buttons, for controlling the user interface. The keyboard and mouse interface facilitates creation and modification of electronic documents including text, spreadsheets, database fields, drawings, and photos.","One of the limitations with conventional GUI systems of computers is that a user must generally type the text they are entering into the personal computer using the keyboard. Entering text using a keyboard is generally slower and more cumbersome than handwriting. Although recent advances have been made in reducing the size of personal computers, they are still not as portable and easily accessible as traditional paper and pen. Furthermore, traditional pen and paper provide the user with considerable flexibility for editing a document, recording notes in the margin, and drawing figures and shapes. In some instances, a user may prefer to use a pen to mark-up a document rather than review the document on-screen because of the ability to freely make notes outside of the confines of the keyboard and mouse interface.","To address the shortcomings of traditional keyboard and mouse interfaces, there have been various attempts to create an electronic tablet that can record handwriting. Such electronic tablets typically comprise a screen and a handheld device that is similar to a pen (also referred to as a stylus). A user can manipulate the pen to write on the electronic tablet in a manner similar to the use of traditional pen and paper. The electronic tablet can \u201cread\u201d the strokes of the user's handwriting with the handheld device and render the handwriting in electronic form on the tablet's screen and\/or the computer's display as \u201celectronic ink\u201d. This electronic tablet approach can be employed in a variety of ways including, on a personal computer and on a handheld computing device.","While the electronic tablet approach has overcome many of the shortcomings of traditional keyboard and mouse interfaces, the electronic tablet approach has not overcome some of the problems often associated with conventional handwritten techniques that employ pen and paper. For example, when notes are taken during a meeting by a user, the information contained in the notes may not be organized in a manner desired by the user. And the user may not have time during the meeting and during presentation of information to move or position notes being taken according to a user's desired organization. Further, an electronic tablet approach as well as traditional keyboard and mouse approaches also suffer from the problem of being able to visually distinguishing a first set of notes from a second set of notes that may be presented on a display device.","Specifically, while information is being recorded in the notes by a user, some notes of a set of notes may have various degrees of importance. Further, some notes of a set may require follow up actions by the user while the remaining notes are only taken to preserve information that is presented to a user.","With conventional pen and paper approaches, a user will typically develop his or her own personalized system for distinguishing certain types of notes from other types of notes. For example, a user may flag a note that requires further action of the user after the act of taking the note with a special character or symbol or graphical technique in order to make certain that a particular note \u201cstands out\u201d from other notes on a page of notes. Conventional electronic ink tablets and conventional keyboard and mouse approaches do not have a way to visually distinguish a first set of notes from a second set of notes presented on a display device.","The closest conventional technology for visually distinguishing data from other data may include tasks that are part of conventional appointments\/task\/e-mail management software such as the product Microsoft Outlook (the assignee of the present application). Tasks as well as e-mails in the Microsoft Outlook product can include flags that comprise icons in order to visually separate tasks from other tasks or e-mails from other e-mails. Specifically, for tasks, a check box icon can be marked with an \u201cX\u201d to designate that the task is complete. Alternatively, the check box icon can remain empty to indicate that the task associated with this check box icon is incomplete.","Similarly, e-mails can be associated with one or more predetermined and fixed icons that designate a particular status. For example, an e-mail may be associated with a \u201cflag\u201d icon to indicate to a user that follow up action is required for a particular e-mail. Also, an e-mail may be associated with an exclamation point character to indicate that a particular e-mail has a higher importance relative to other e-mails which may not have an exclamation point.","While tasks and e-mails of the Microsoft Outlook product may include these predetermined and fixed flags to visually distinguish a first set of data from another set of data, e-mails and tasks are usually presented in user interfaces that are separate from one another. That is, if a user is creating a task, then only task data can be displayed to the user. Similarly, if an e-mail is being created, only e-mails can be presented to the user. The conventional technology does not provide a way to present tasks and e-mails on the same page. Also, the conventional technology does not provide a way visually distinguish a first set of notes comprising various different categories of items from a second set of notes that may comprise various different sets of items.","Further, the conventional technology does not permit a user to customize or change the look or \u201cfeel\u201d of flags that may be associated with a particular task or an e-mail. With the conventional technology, a user is forced to conform his or her notes to the predefined format of the flags such as the \u201cflags\u201d for following up e-mails and check boxes for task items.","In addition to the lack of customization for flags associated with notes, conventional technology does not link notes taken by a user with corresponding application program that may be needed to perform one or more notes taken by the user. For example, a user may create a note that reminds him or her to e-mail another person as a result of a meeting. After creating such a note, a user later opens up an e-mail application program in order to prepare the e-mail for the person identified in the note. If the user records several notes that pertain to different applications, then the user will need to open up as many corresponding separate application programs relative to the note recording application program.","Accordingly, there is a need in the art for a method and system for customizing note flags such that a user can customize the look or \u201cfeel\u201d of a note flag. There is also a need in the art for a method and system that allows customization of note flags by providing a user with several options in order to create note flags that are visually distinguishable from one another. A further need exists in the art for a method and system that can link a note flag with a particular action of another application program. In other words, there is a need in the art for a note flag that can initiate an operation in another application program when the particular note flag is selected by a user.","The present invention can comprise a method and system for customizing note flags. Note flags can include various ways to visually distinguish a first set of notes from a second set of notes presented on a display device. Meanwhile, notes can include type written characters, electronic ink, or any other types of characters that can be presented on a display device.","Exemplary note flags can include, but are not limited to, label names for a graphical icon, the shape or type of a graphical icon, a highlight color for the characters of a note, and a font color for one or more characters of a note. Note flags can visually set apart or identify a first set of notes from a second set of notes such that the first set of notes can have a unique or special meaning relative to other sets of notes that may be present on a particular page of notes on a display device.","For example, when notes are taken during a meeting by a user, the information contained in the notes may not be organized in a manner desired by the user. And the user may not have time during the meeting to move or position the notes according to his or her desired organization. With the present invention, a user can categorize information contained in notes as the notes are generated. Specifically, the user can use note flags as a way to categorize notes as they are created. Alternatively, after notes are created, a user can review existing notes and select notes to be flagged according to the features of the present invention.","With the present invention, a user can select from several different types of note flags. According to one exemplary embodiment, a user can select from nine different types of note flags. However, the present invention is not limited to this number of note flag types. A fewer or greater number of note flag types can be employed without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.","For each note flag type, a user can customize the look or \u201cfeel\u201d of a note flag. Specifically, a user can assign a label name for a graphical icon associated with a note flag. A user can also select the highlight color as well as the font color for a particular note flag. And a user can also select and change a graphical icon associated with a particular note flag.","By customizing a note flag, a user can assign a particular meaning for each type of note flag. For example, a user could assign a first note flag type to indicate an action item to be completed by the user. The user could assign a second note flag type to indicate a calendar item that should be recorded on a personal calendar. For the first note flag, a user could select an icon comprising a square box that can be \u201cchecked\u201d at a later time to indicate the action item has been completed. For the second note flag, a calendar icon can be assigned such that the user will recognize that any text or into adjacent to this \u201cflag\u201d should be recorded on a calendar.","In this way, as information is being recorded or created, a user can categorize his notes. Alternatively, after a user creates some notes, he can return to the existing notes and assign a particular note flag to them.","According to one exemplary embodiment, a user can customize a note flag by selecting options from a list or table of options. Specifically, a user can select the icon, highlight color, and font color associated with a particular note flag from a drop down menu that lists all available options for each of these note flag features. After selecting an option from a drop down menu, a preview of the selected option can be displayed prior to saving the option for a particular note flag.","A note flag can be activated by striking a predetermined key board combination. Alternatively, a note flag can be activated by selecting a command from a drop down menu. A note flag can also be activated by striking a button of a tool bar that services only note flags. And as another alternative, a note flag could be activated by recognizing an electronic ink gesture or a combination of letters associated with a particular note flag.","According to another aspect of the invention, a note flag can be linked with a particular action that can occur within the program supporting notes and the note flags or the note flag can be linked with action associated with another application, outside the application program supporting the notes and not flags. In other words, when a note flag is activated, it can initiate an operation within the current document supporting the notes or the note flag upon activation can initiate action in another application program.","For example, a user could associate a note flag with an action of taking a note and displaying it in a special window adjacent to a window that is currently receiving note data. As other non-limiting example, a user could associate a note flag with an e-mail operation that occurs in an application program outside of the application program supporting notes and note flags. When a particular note is \u201cflagged\u201d with this e-mail note flag, a new e-mail message could be generated where the note can be copied into the new e-mail message. The user could add more information to the e-mail message, select the recipients intended to receive the note, and then send the e-mail to the recipients.","As another non-limiting example of a note flag linked to an application program outside of the application program supporting note flags and notes, a user could associate a note flag with a calendar operation. When a particular note is marked with this calendar note flag, a new appointment could be generated in a calendar program where the note is copied into the subject of the new appointment. Date information could be automatically extracted from the note such that the new appointment reflects this extracted date information. The user could then identify the location of the appointment and other information as needed to complete the appointment before it is saved in the calendar program.","The aforementioned discussion of an e-mail item and calendar item are for illustrative purposes only. The present invention can link note flags to any type of action or functionality of another application program relative to the document editing program that can capture either electronic ink or typed text or both.","A method and system for customizing note flags allows a user to change the look or \u201cfeel\u201d of a note flag. A user can be provided with several options in order to create note flags that are visually distinguishable from one another. In this way, the note flags can be used to visually distinguish a first note or first set of notes from a second note or a second set of notes. The method and system can also link note flags with a particular action in an application program supporting the notes or the method and system could link note flags with action of another application program relative to a document editing module. In other words, when a note flag is activated, it can initiate an operation within the current document supporting the notes or the note flag upon activation can initiate action in another application program.","Exemplary Operating Environment","Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will hereinafter be described with reference to the drawings, in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures.  illustrates an exemplary operating environment for implementation of the present invention.","The exemplary operating environment includes a general-purpose computing device in the form of a conventional personal computer . Generally, the personal computer  includes a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory  to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes a read-only memory (ROM)  and a random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system (BIOS) , containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within personal computer , such as during start-up, is stored in ROM .","Personal computer  further includes a hard disk drive  for reading from and writing to a hard disk, not shown, a magnetic disk drive  for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk  such as a CD-ROM or other optical media. Hard disk drive , magnetic disk drive , and optical disk drive  are connected to system bus  by a hard disk drive interface , a magnetic disk drive interface , and an optical disk drive interface , respectively.","Although the exemplary environment described herein employs hard disk , removable magnetic disk , and removable optical disk , it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks, Bernoulli cartridges, RAMs, ROMs, and the like, may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer-executable instructions, data structures, program modules, and other data for personal computer .","A number of program modules may be stored on hard disk , magnetic disk , optical disk , ROM , or RAM , including an operating system , an ink processing module , a stylus and ink module , and an electronic document . Program modules include routines, sub-routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the present invention may be implemented in the form of a ink processing module  that can operate in concert with a stylus and ink module  to edit an electronic document .","A user may enter commands and information into personal computer  through input devices, such as a keyboard  and a pointing device . Pointing devices may include a mouse, a trackball, and an electronic pen that can be used in conjunction with an electronic tablet. Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to processing unit  through a serial port interface  that is coupled to the system bus , but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, game port, a universal serial bus (USB), or the like. A display device  may also be connected to system bus  via an interface, such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor, personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices (not shown), such as speakers and printers.","The personal computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . Remote computer  may be another personal computer, a server, a client, a router, a network PC, a peer device, or other common network node. While a remote computer  typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the personal computer , only a memory storage device  has been illustrated in the Figure. The logical connections depicted in the Figure include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets, and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the personal computer  is often connected to the local area network  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the personal computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over WAN , such as the Internet. Modem , which may be internal or external, is connected to system bus  via serial port interface . In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to personal computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be implemented in other computer system configurations, including hand-held devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics, network person computers, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments, where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.","Referring to , an exemplary architecture  is illustrated for editing electronic ink in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.  shows typical hardware and software components used in operating the invention from a functional perspective. Conventional input devices are represented by the keyboard  and the pointing device (mouse) . A user can enter commands and information into the computer  using the input devices. Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, and scanner.","A conventional output device, such as monitor , is used to display information from the computer . Other output devices (not shown) can include a printer or speaker. Other hardware components shown in  include an electronic tablet  and an accompanying stylus . The tablet  and stylus  are used to input handwriting strokes which are converted to collections of data that can be represented as electronic ink. The electronic ink may be incorporated into an electronic document  and may be displayed on either the electronic tablet , the monitor , or both.","Although the electronic tablet  and the monitor  are illustrated as being distinct, in the preferred embodiment they are either coupled or form a single component. The joint tablet\/monitor component has the ability to display information and receive input from the stylus . Also shown among the hardware components is a conventional electronic storage device such as a hard drive  or RAM .","In the representative architecture , all of the hardware components are coupled to an ink processing software module . It should be understood by those skilled in the art that  is merely representative and that in practice the hardware components typically are coupled to the elements shown in . The ink processing module  is operable for receiving data from the electronic tablet  and\/or the stylus  and rendering that data as electronic ink. In the preferred and exemplary embodiment, the ink processing module  is a collection of software modules that perform different tasks for rendering handwriting strokes as electronic ink.","For example, the stylus and ink module  can receive data describing the positions and angles of the stylus for a series of handwriting strokes. The stylus and ink module  can interpret the data for rendering electronic ink. Other software modules, such as a gesture recognizer  and word recognizer  can be designed to identify certain handwriting strokes and assign them a particular significance. For example, certain gestures such as a cross-out may be recognized and associated with other editing processes. The ink processing module  can also include an erasing functions module  for removing electronic ink that has been previously rendered.","Although ink processing modules are known in the art and necessary for an electronic tablet to function, what is needed is a document editing module , such as the one shown in , that enhances the performance of an electronic tablet. Specifically, document editing module  facilitates the manipulation of electronic ink so that a user can create and manipulate an electronic document  with greater ease and sophistication. The document editing module  can comprise a table of options  for container features. A container can refer to a body of data that comprises the formatting for a particular note flag.","When the document editing module  needs to determine the current properties for a particular container comprising the formatting of a particular note flag, the document editing module  accesses the registry keys  of the windows operating system . The registry keys  contain the current properties of a particular note flag. The properties of note flags will be discussed in further detail below. The windows operating system  can comprise a graphical user interface (GUI) manager . The GUI manager  in combination with the document editing module  comprising the options table  can generate the note flag customization GUI  as will be discussed in further detail below.","The document editing module  can also be operatively linked to other application programs , such as action item programs, e-mail programs, calendar programs and the like. The document editing module can use application programming interfaces (APIs) (not shown) to form this link. With the APIs, the document editing module  can make calls to other application programs in response to the \u201cactivation\u201d of a note flag as will be discussed in further detail below with respect to one aspect of the present invention.","The document editing module  may further comprise a collection of software modules for controlling and manipulating electronic ink rendered on the monitor . For example, a parsing module  can be used to identify handwriting strokes that are selected by the user for editing. Selected strokes may by highlighted or shaded to assist the user in identifying which strokes are to be edited. A classifier module  can identify certain handwriting strokes as being part of a word or drawing. Software modules such as the layout module  and the insert space module  can be designed to control how electronic ink is rendered and moved. Other modules can include a selection manager , a context menu manager , a text input manager , and a user interface language input processor .","The selection manager  can monitor how converted text or electronic ink is selected for editing by the user. The context menu manager  can monitor the selection of a list of alternate words that can be displayed when a user edits a word in converted text. The text input manager  can operate as an interface for a user interface language input processor  that uses language rules to assist in the recognition of words through context.","The modules shown in  are representative and those skilled in the art should understand that other modules may also be part of or coupled to the document editing module . For example, the document editing module  may also work with a rich edit module  that provides added functionality such as monitoring and controlling the selection of text and word wrapping.","The present invention includes multiple computer programs which embodies the functions described herein and illustrated in the exemplary display screens and the appended flow chart. However, it should be apparent that there could be many different ways of implementing the invention in computer programming, and the invention should not be construed as limited to any one set of computer program instructions. Further, a skilled programmer would be able to write such a computer program to implement the disclosed invention without difficulty based on the exemplary display screens and flow charts and associated description in the application text, for example.","Therefore, disclosure of a particular set of program code instructions is not considered necessary for an adequate understanding how to make and use the invention. The inventive functionality of the claimed computer program will be explained in more detail in the following description in conjunction with the remaining Figures illustrating the functions and program flow.","Exemplary Display Screens in Graphical User Interfaces","Referring now to , this figure illustrates exemplary display screen  that comprises different types of notes  taken by a user during a meeting. A user can generate the different notes  with a stylus  and his or her hand  or with a keyboard  and a pointing device  such as mouse  or the like. Within the larger group of different types of notes  exist a first set of notes  and a second set of notes . The first set of notes can be generated with the stylus  and may comprise electronic ink while the second set of notes  can comprise typewritten text that are created with a keyboard .","While the large set of various notes  pertain to a meeting as illustrated by display screen , those skilled in the art will appreciate that other types of notes for recording information pertaining to activities or other purposes are not beyond the scope and spirit of the present invention. That is, the present invention can be used for an infinite number of purposes beyond that of recording information pertaining to a meeting.","Referring now to , this figure illustrates a display screen B where a note  concerning an e-mail action is selected by a user. The user can select the e-mail note  by pointing to it with the stylus  or by selecting the e-mail note  with a mouse pointer . Once the note  is selected by the user, a highlight bar  envelopes or surrounds the e-mail note  in order to inform the user that this note has been selected and is ready for further processing by the document editing module .","Once the e-mail note  is selected, a user can then select an appropriate note flag to visually distinguish the selected e-mail note  from the remaining notes  on the display screen B. According to the present invention, an appropriate note flag can be selected according to a variety of methods.","Referring now to , this figure illustrates a tool bar  that lists different types of note flags that can be selected by a user. Each note flag type can comprise an icon and corresponding text. However, those skilled in the art will recognize that the tool bar  can comprise either icons alone or text descriptions of note flag types alone.","For the exemplary embodiment illustrated in , three different note flag types  have been illustrated. A first note flag type comprises an action item  that can include a first icon  and a first text description . The first icon  can comprise a box with a check mark so that a user can form a type of check list with this particular type of note flag.","A second note flag type can comprise an e-mail item  that can include a second icon  and a second text description . The second icon  can comprise a graphic that illustrates an envelope so that a user can associate mail with this particular icon. The second text description can comprise the text \u201ce-mail item.\u201d","The third note flag type can comprise a calendar item  that can include a third icon  and a third text description . The third icon  can comprise a graphic that represents a calendar while the third text description  can comprise the text \u201ccalendar item.\u201d Those skilled in the art recognize that a fewer number or a greater number of note flag types can be employed without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. As will be discussed below, the user can customize or change the icon and corresponding textual description of a note flag as well as the highlight color of the characters of a note, as well as the font color of one or more characters of a note that can be flagged with a particular note flag.","The tool bar  can be displayed simultaneously within an open electronic document on a display screen  which is supported by the document editing module . When a user wants to \u201cflag\u201d a particular note, a user can select the note flag type from the tool bar .","Alternatively, referring now to , this figure illustrates a drop down menu  that lists different types of note flags similar to the note flag types illustrated in . In addition to or as an alternative to a tool bar  of , a user can select note flags from the drop down menu  where the drop down menu  is part of a tool bar of the document editing module .","In addition to or alternative to  and , and referring now to , a combination of keys on a keyboard  can activate a particular note flag. For example, as illustrated, a control key  can be depressed simultaneously with a number one key  in order to activate a first type of note flag. The exemplary key combination of \u201ccontrol-one\u201d can be assigned to a first note flag such as the action item note flag  illustrated in . Similarly, other note flag types can be assigned different key combinations such as the \u201ccontrol-two\u201d combination to activate a second note flag type.","According to one exemplary embodiment, a user can select from nine different types of note flags that can be assigned to nine different key combinations. However, the present invention is not limited to this number of note flag types. A fewer or greater number of note flag types can be employed without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. In addition to or in alternative to  through  discussed above, and referring now to , a user can activate a particular note flag by creating a gesture that is recognizable by an ink processing module  in order to activate a particular note flag type.","The exemplary embodiment illustrated in , the gesture  can be associated with the e-mail note flag  where the gesture  can comprise the letter \u201cE\u201d that is surrounded or circumscribed by a substantially square shaped box. When the user generates gesture  on the display screen C of the document editing module , the ink processing module  can associate this gesture  with a corresponding note flag such as the e-mail note flag  illustrated in . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various and numerous types of gestures can be created and assigned by a user for each particular note flag type. According to one exemplary embodiment, a user can assign individual gestures  to correspond with respective note flag types that also can be customized or created by the user.","Referring now to , an exemplary display screen D is illustrated that shows a gesture  created by a user for a selected e-mail note . As noted above, a user can select notes and assign note flags to the notes after all the notes have been created or alternatively the user can \u201cflag\u201d notes as they are being created by a user. Therefore, for the example illustrated in , after the \u201cdraft document\u201d note  is created, a user could then generate gesture  on the next line underneath the note  to indicate that the note data following the gesture  will be assigned this particular note flag that is activated by the gesture .","Referring now to , this figure illustrates an exemplary display screen E in which an activation of a note flag is illustrated. Specifically, in the exemplary display screen E, the selected e-mail note  has been \u201cflagged\u201d with the e-mail note flag type  by displaying the first icon  comprising an envelope adjacent to the selected note . The e-mail note flag type  has been formatted such that data of the selected note  is underlined by the line . And for this particular e-mail note flag type , the highlight bar feature has been turned off or deactivated. In other words, a color has not been selected for the highlight bar or background option for this version of the e-mail note flag type .","Referring now to , this figure illustrates an exemplary display  that can be generated in response to an activation of a particular note flag. Exemplary display  can comprise a new e-mail message that is generated in response to the activation of the selected e-mail note flag. In other words, exemplary display  that comprises an unsent, new e-mail can correspond to the activation of an e-mail note flag type such as the ones illustrated in ,  and . The content of the selected e-mail note  that corresponds to the e-mail note flag  has been copied and pasted into the subject line  of the unsent, new e-mail message. By generating display  and presenting it immediately after tagging a particular note, a workload of a user can be significantly reduced. Similarly, when a note flag is activated, it can initiate an operation within the current document supporting the notes instead of or in addition to initiating an operation in another application program. For example, a user could associate a note flag with an action of taking a note and displaying it in a special window adjacent to a window that is currently receiving note data.","Those skilled in the art will appreciate that initiating an operation within a document editing application program or in an application program other than a document editing application program with a note flag can be efficient in some instances while in other instances such activation of a note flag may be counter productive. For example, if a user was taking notes during a meeting, it may be counterproductive to initiate an operation in another application program such as an e-mail messaging program or opening a modal feature within the document editing program while the user is trying to record notes of a meeting. Therefore, this particular feature of initiating an operation within the document editing program or in an other application program with a note flag can be turned off or such functionality can be assigned to a special tool bar in which a user can select after notes have been \u201cflagged\u201d in order to initiate the operations.","Those skilled in the art also recognize that the present invention is not limited to associating a note flag with an e-mail operation. As mentioned previously, a user can associate a note flag with a calendar operation or operations within the application program supporting the notes and note flags. The aforementioned e-mail item and calendar item operations associated with a particular note flag are also for illustrative purposes only. The present invention can link note flags to any types of action or functionality of within the document editing module  or another application program relative to the document editing module  that can capture either electronic ink or typed text or both.","Referring now to , this figure illustrates an exemplary display F in which several different notes have been \u201cflagged\u201d with different types of note flags. A \u201cdraft document\u201d note  has been flagged with the third icon  and has been circumscribed or enveloped by a highlight bar  and underlined with a line  to indicate that this first note  is a calendar item. This means, for each note that is designated by a user as a calendar item, the corresponding note will be associated with the third icon . And the note data for the \u201ccalendar item\u201d will be highlighted or enveloped or circumscribed by highlight bar  and underlined with a line .","Similarly, and as noted above, the second e-mail note  has been \u201cflagged\u201d with the second icon  and has been underlined by a second line  to indicate that the second note  is an e-mail item.","For the third note , the first icon  has been used to flag this note in order to indicate visually that this third note  is an action item. A fourth icon  has also been used to flag a fourth note  to indicate that this note  is an \u201copen\u201d or \u201cuncompleted\u201d action item meaning that the fourth icon  does not include a \u201ccheck\u201d mark. After the user completes the action required by the fourth note , the fourth icon  can be \u201cchecked\u201d by the user such that it transforms itself into the first icon . It is noted that for the second e-mail note , the highlight bar or highlight feature is not activated or has been turned off by user. Similarly, for the third note  and fourth note , a user did not activate or the user turned off the highlight bar features as well as the underline feature. While not illustrated in the present figure, the highlight color as well as the text color \u201cparticular\u201d note flag type can be selected by a user. Further details of these aspects will be described with respect to  discussed below.","Referring now to , this figure illustrates an exemplary display  comprising a note flag summary where only notes that have been flagged by the user are displayed. Exemplary display  is generated by extracting the flagged notes from the exemplary display F of  and the associated note data. The other notes which are not flagged in  such as the \u201cattendees\u201d and \u201cvarious aspects\u201d notes are not displayed in the note flag summary since they were not \u201cflagged\u201d with note flags.","According to one exemplary aspect of the present invention, a user could initiate an operation in another application program by \u201cdouble clicking\u201d on the notes contained within the note flag summary display . In this way, when a user is generating notes that are part of the display F illustrated in , the operations associated with each particular flag selected by the user are only carried out when the user selects the notes or note flags from the note flag summary display . In this way, a user can control the initiation of an operation in another application program while creating a series or set of notes.","Referring now to , this figure illustrates a graphical user interface (GUI)  for customizing note flags that can be generated by the document editing module  working with the graphical user interface manager . The GUI  can comprise a note flag selection button  in which a user can select a particular note flag out of the nine available note flags in order to customize the note flag icon  as well as the textual description  of a note flag. To change the text description  of a particular note flag, the user can insert text within a box  and then select a change text button .","The graphical user interface may further comprise a symbol change button , a text highlight color change button  and a text color change button . The text highlight color change button  permits a user to select a color of a highlight bar after the note has been \u201cflagged\u201d with a particular note flag. The text color change button  permits a user to select a color of the text of note after the note has been \u201cflagged\u201d with a particular note flag. After selecting a format for a particular feature of a note flag, a preview screen  can illustrate what a particular note flag will look like after the various features have been selected.","Referring now to , this figure illustrates various submenus , , and  that can be generated in response to selecting the symbol of change button , the text highlight color change button , and text color change button  of . Specifically the first submenu  can comprise the various options for changing the symbol or icon associated with a particular note flag. The submenu  can further comprise a \u201ccreate own\u201d option  in which a user can create his or her own unique symbol or icon to be associated with a particular note flag. Upon selecting the \u201ccreate own\u201d option , the user can specify a file location for the icon or symbol to be associated with the selected note flag.","The second submenu  can comprise various colors that can be selected by a user for a highlight bar that will be applied to text adjacent to a selected note flag. The third submenu , can comprise various colors for text of a note when a particular note flag is activated. Those skilled in the art will recognize that additional formatting options are not beyond the scope and spirit of the present invention. As explained above with respect to some previous figures, a user could select the font for text when a note is \u201cflagged\u201d with a particular note flag. For example, the text of a particular note could be bolded or underlined when a note flag is activated.","Exemplary Method for Tagging Notes and Customizing Note Flags","Certain steps in the processes described below must naturally precede others for the present invention to function as described. However, the present invention is not limited to the order of the steps described if such order or sequence does not alter the functionality of the present invention. That is, it is recognized that some steps may be performed before or after other steps or in parallel with other steps without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.","Referring now to , this figure illustrates an exemplary method  for marking notes with note flags and customizing note flags. The method or process  starts with a first step  in which a document editing module  receives note data from an input device such as a tablet  or keyboard . Note data can comprise at least one of typewritten text as well as handwritten text in the form of electronic ink. Next, in step , the document editing module  can detect whether a flag gesture  has been created or if a note flag command has been selected by user. If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed back to step . If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the document editing module  retrieves the particular features of a selected note flag from the registry keys  stored within the windows operating system .","Next, in step , the document editing module can modify the text or ink as needed corresponding to a selected note or insertion point in accordance with the note flag features retrieved from the registry keys . Specifically, note data that already exists can be selected or \u201cflagged\u201d, and then the document editing module  can modify the text or ink of the note data according features of the selected note flag. However, if note data does not exist, when a note flag is selected, the subsequent note data positioned after the note flag will be formatted according to the features of the selected note flag.","In step , the documenting editing module  can display the icon for the selected note flag adjacent to the existing note data. Alternatively, if note data has not been created, the icon for the selected note flag can be positioned proximate to the last insertion point.","Next in step , the document editing module  can update the note flag summary display  with the note data corresponding to the selected note flag. In decision step , the document editing module  can determine whether a user has selected to display the note flag summary . If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step . In step , the note flag summary  is displayed.","If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed to decision step  in which it is determined whether the selected note flag is linked to an operation within the document editing module  or within another application program (or both). For decision step , this step can also correspond to whether the user desires a particular note flag to initiate an operation within the document editing module  or within another application program relative to the document editing module . As noted above, according to one aspect of the present invention, the note flags displayed in the note flag summary display  can be \u201chot\u201d links that can initiate operations within the document editing module  or in other application programs relative to the document editing module .","If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the document editing module  can initiate commands within the document editing module  or make calls to APIs for a particular application program outside of the document editing module. The APIs can then initiate the action in another application program relative to the document editing module  and corresponding to a selected note flag. If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed to decision step .","In decision step , the document editing module  determines whether a format note flag change command has been selected by a user. If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed in which the process ends.","If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the note flag customization GUI  as illustrated in  is displayed. Next, in decision step , it is determined whether a particular note flag has been selected. If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed to decision step . If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to routine .","In routine , the formatting options for the selected note flag are retrieved by the document editing module  and displayed. Selections made by the user are then received by the document editing module . Further details of routine  will be discussed below with respect to .","After routine , in step , a preview  of the newly formatted note flag is displayed with the graphical user interface  as illustrated in . Next, in decision step , it is determined whether the changes to the format of the selected note flag are desired to be saved. If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed to decision step . If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the formatting of the selected note flag is saved on a storage medium such as storage device  or .","Next, in decision step , the document editing module  determines whether a user is finished with formatting note flags. If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed back to step . If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed in which the process then ends.","Referring now to , this figure illustrates an exemplary submethod  for display formatting options and receiving selections for formatting note flags according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Routine  starts with decision step  in which it is determined whether a change icon or symbol button  has been selected. If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which an icon option table or submenu  is displayed. Next, in step , it is determined whether an icon option has been selected from the submenu . If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed back to step . If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the process returns to step  in .","If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed to decision step  in which it is determined whether a change highlight button  has been selected. If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the highlight option table or submenu  is displayed. Next, in decision step  it is determined whether a highlight option has been selected from the submenu . If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed back to step . If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the process returns to step  of .","If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed to decision step . In decision step  it is determined whether the change text color button  has been selected. If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the process returns to step  of .","If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which text color option table or submenu  is displayed. Next, in decision step  it is determined whether a text color option has been selected from the submenu . If the inquiry to decision step  is negative, then the \u201cNO\u201d branch is followed back to step . If the inquiry to decision step  is positive, then the \u201cYES\u201d branch is followed to step  in which the process returns to step  of . As noted above, those skilled in the art will recognize that other features or options for customizing the look and \u201cfeel\u201d of note flags are not beyond the scope and spirit of the present invention.","In one exemplary embodiment not illustrated, a user can select or make the association between a note flag and a particular application program in which an operation will be carried out in response to activation of a note flag. That is, a user can assign an operation of an application program to a particular note flag. This means that a user can \u201ccustomize\u201d the operations associated with a particular note flag. Further, a user could also assign a series of operations similar to macros in response to the activation of a particular note flag. Those skilled in the art will recognize that any number of operations in application programs different from the document editing module  could be assigned to a particular note flag.","The method and system for customizing note flags allows a user to customize the look or \u201cfeel\u201d of a note flag. A user is provided with several options in order to create note flags that are visually distinguishable from one another. The method and system also links note flags with a particular action within a program supporting the note flags such as the document editing module  or in another application program relative to a document editing module ."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 17"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
