---
title: Sheet preparation module architecture and control methods
abstract: Sheets can be manipulated for punching, perforating and/or folding. The systems and methods according to this invention allow sheets to be punched and/or perforated in various configurations. The systems and methods according to this invention allow sheets to be folded in various forms and/or configurations. Sheets can be inverted to ensure proper orientation. The systems and methods according to this invention allow the number and/and or locations of punches and/or perforations and the type and/or length of folds to be controlled on a sheet-by-sheet basis. The systems and methods according to this invention allow the sheet preparation module to be optionally configured within the photocopying system depending on the needs and flexibility of the finishing requirements of the operator. The modularity of the sheet preparation module design as a “plug and play” unit enables greater functionality for the manipulation of sheets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07137943&OS=07137943&RS=07137943
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 07137943
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030129
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of Invention","This invention is directed to systems and methods for punching, perforating and folding of sheets in a printing system.","2. Description of Related Art","Photocopiers have become standard equipment in today's offices, enabling businesses to increase productivity and efficiency. Today's photocopying systems provide high-speed reproduction with ease of use. Additionally, current photocopying systems offer end-to-end capability from feeding to finishing that includes features such as sorting, collating and binding. Many systems combine several features to further increase productivity and ease of use by the operator.","Sheet folding systems are in use in many photocopying systems using various folding techniques, such as folding rollers and knife-edge folding assistance devices. Further, hole punchers, sheet perforators, and sheet inverters are used to enhance photocopying and document publication.","An important element of a photocopying system is the ability to handle large complicated print jobs with minimal user input. Systems exist that automate document handling, copying and finishing, such as hole punching, sheet perforation, and\/or folding, with minimal user input. This reliability and ease of use further enables increases in user productivity. Such systems are needed that provide capabilities to photocopying systems.","However, few systems currently package the functional elements that handle the end-to-end copying requirements in a unique architecture.","This invention provides systems and methods for punching, perforating, and\/or folding sheets for a printing system.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for punching sheets with various hole configurations.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for perforating sheets.","This invention further provides systems and methods for selectively folding sheets into different fold configurations.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, sheets can be manipulated for punching, perforating and\/or folding. For example, sheets to be manipulated may be punched, or perforated or folded only. In other various exemplary embodiments, sheets can be punched and perforated only, punched and folded only, perforated and folded only, or punched, perforated, and folded.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, sheets can be punched in various punching configurations. For example, sheets can be punched with one hole, two holes, or three or more holes, based upon the punch and die units used in the system.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, sheets can be folded in various forms. For example, sheets can be z-folded for inserting larger sheets into small size sets, half-folded, c-folded, or z-folded for mailings, brochures, or for manually inserting ink envelopes. In various exemplary embodiments, sheets that are z-folded for insertion into a set can be inverted to ensure proper orientation.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, sheets can be stacked based on the type of manipulations performed. For example, z-folded and c-folded sheets not used in sets and\/or half-folded sheets can be stacked in a top tray.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the type and length of the fold can be controlled on a sheet-by-sheet basis. For example, the first copy of a photocopied sheet can be z-folded for mailing in an envelope and the second copy of the photocopied sheet can be half-folded for flyer manual distribution.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention, the sheet preparation module can be optionally configured within the photocopying system depending on the need and flexibility of the finishing requirements of the operator. The modularity of the sheet preparation module design as a \u201cplug and play\u201d unit enables greater functionality for the manipulation of sheets. For example, the sheet preparation module can be situated to accept output sheets from an image output terminal or from a sheet feed module. Sheets from the sheet preparation module can be sent to a finisher to be incorporated into sets or stacks or sheets can be redirected to a top tray of the sheet preparation module.","These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or are apparent from, the following detailed descriptions of various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention.","Various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention enable the manipulation of sheets in a photocopying system to be advanced by using a sheet preparation module. The mechanisms and techniques used in sheet preparation modules according to this invention provide a combination of punching, perforating, and\/or folding.","In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of this invention, a sheet fed into the sheet preparation module can be effectively manipulated based upon the requirements of a particular job submitted by an operator of the printing or photocopying system. It should be appreciated that sheets requiring no manipulation can be bypassed through the sheet preparation module to a downstream module, such as, for example, a finisher module.","In various exemplary embodiments, sheets may be punched with varying configures of holes using replaceable punch\/die configurations. It should be appreciated that punched sheets can also be folded and\/or perforated.","In various exemplary embodiments, sheets may be perforated in various locations. The locations of the perforation on the sheet are fully controllable on a sheet-to-sheet basis.","In various exemplary embodiments, sheets may be folded in various configurations based on the operator requirements. Sheets may be z-folded, c-folded, and half-folded for letters, brochures, cards and the like. In various exemplary embodiments, the type of folding and the position of the one or more folds on the sheet relative to the edges of the sheet and\/or other folds are fully controllable on a sheet-to-sheet basis.","In various exemplary embodiments, sheets diverted to the sheet preparation module for manipulation are registered to ensure proper alignment of the sheet prior to manipulation using a tamping system. The sheet, after registration, may be punched. The sheet may then be transported out of the registration and punch area and transported to a perforator unit. In various exemplary embodiments, a rotary perforation wheel with a backer roll is used to perforate the sheet. In various exemplary embodiments, the perforation wheel and backer may be moved, for a given sheet, to the appropriate cross-process location before the sheet arrives. In various exemplary embodiments, the perforation wheel and backer engage the sheet only when required. After being perforated, the sheet may then pass to a folding area. The type of fold performed on the sheet, such as z-folds, c-folds, and half-folds, and the like, may be predicated on the requirements of the system operator. After folding, sheets may be sent to a finisher module or exit to a top tray of the sheet preparation module.","It should be appreciated that the type of punching, perforating, and folding may vary and\/or differ on a job-to-job basis or even on a sheet-to-sheet basis, depending on the requirements of the system operator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["100","100","200","300","400","500"]},"It should be appreciated that in various exemplary embodiments, these elements, while shown in  as separate elements, are not necessarily separate and distinct components. Thus, the functions and\/or operations of any one or more of these elements may be carried out by a single device, structure and\/or subsystem. Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the sheet preparation module  in  may be located or positioned within the photocopying system  to accept sheets from the image output terminal  or from the sheet feed module , for example.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["400","100","400","470","480","490","420","424","430","475"]},"The memory  shown in  can be implemented using any appropriate combination alterable, volatile or non-volatile memory, or non-alterable, or fixed memory. The alterable memory, whether volatile or non-volatile can be implemented using any one or more ecstatic or dynamic brand, a floppy disc or disc drive, a writeable or rewriteable optical disc and disc drive, a hard drive, a flash memory or the like. Likewise, the non-alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM and optical disc, ROM, disc such as CD-ROM or DVD-ROM, and disc drive or the like.","As shown in , one or more input device  and display devices  are connected to the input\/output interface . In general, the one or more input devices  will include any one or more of a keyboard, a keypad, a touch screen, or any other known or later developed system for providing control and\/or data signals to the sheet preparation module . The one or more input devices  can further include any manual or automated device usable by a user or other system to present data or other stimuli to the sheet preparation module .","The punch unit  can be any hardware system, device or apparatus that enables the sheet preparation module  to punch holes in sheets. In various embodiments, the punch unit  can include any combination of any combination of hardware elements, such as punch and die units, servos and\/or solenoids that provide any combination of punch holes.","The perforator unit  can be any combination of hardware elements that enables sheets in the sheet preparation module  to be perforated. In various embodiments, the perforation unit  can include a combination of hardware, including a rotary perforation wheel with a backer roll.","The folder unit  can be any combination of hardware elements that enables the sheet in the sheet preparation module  to be folded. In various exemplary embodiments, the folder unit  can include any hardware elements, such as one or more simple buckle folders, one or more sets of drive rollers, one or more sets of servo control nip rollers and\/or and one or more sets of folder fold rollers that enable various types of folds to be controllably applied to each sheet on a sheet-to-sheet basis. The type of folds performed by the folder unit  may include, but is not limited to, c-folds, z-folds, and half-folds.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["400","400","412","459","468","418","469","459"]},"A sheet to be manipulated is diverted from the bypass path  to a primary manipulation path  by a gate . As shown in , the primary manipulation path  includes one or more sets of transport nip rollers , one or more sets of nip rollers , the punch unit , a leading edge registration gate , the perforator unit , and the folder unit .","As discussed above, sheets to be manipulated are diverted from the bypass path  to the manipulation path  by the gate . One or more sets of transport nip rollers  move the sheets along the manipulation path  to the registration gate . The registration gate  registers the leading edge of the sheet. Cross-process registration, if implemented, is accomplished using a tamping system, for example. For cross-process registration, the one or more sets of nip rollers  are opened to allow the sheet movement in the cross-process direction. After a sheet has been registered to ensure proper alignment, the sheet may be punched by the punch unit . The sheet is transported out of the registration gate and punch area to the perforation unit . If the sheet is to be perforated, in various exemplary embodiments a fully controllable rotary perforation wheel  performs the perforation. The perforation wheel  can be moved to the appropriate cross-process location prior to the arrival of the sheet and the perforation wheel  being engaged.","From the perforation area, the sheet continues along the manipulation path  to the folding unit . The folding unit  includes an initial folding area and a second folding area, enabling a multiple of fully controllable folding options. In various exemplary embodiments, the sheet may be z-folded, half-folded and c-folded, for example.","If a sheet does not require folding, the sheet continues along the manipulation path  and may exit the sheet preparation module  via the sheet-discharging outlet . Alternatively, sheets can continue to a tray path  leading to a tray exit  and a top tray .","A sheet that requires folding enters the folding unit  along the primary manipulation path  and extends into the initial folding area. If only a single fold is required, the sheet continues along the initial folding path , by-passing the second folding area, and exits the folding unit . If additional folding is required, the sheet stops in the second folding area and is directed along the second folding path . After folding, the sheet exits the folding unit . In contrast, folded sheets not sent to the finisher module  can be directed to the top tray  of the sheet preparation module  via the exit path  to the tray outlet .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["430","430","446","448","440","442","430"]},"As shown in , the fold rollers  and  can be simple buckle folders. The one or more sets of servo control nip rollers  can be any type of controllable rollers that can be, for example, stopped and reversed. It should be appreciated that a moveable gate can also be used in addition to, or even in place of, the nip rollers . That is, in various exemplary embodiments, the moveable gate can be moved along the manipulation path to change where the sheet is stopped relative to the fold rollers  and  to change where the fold is formed along the length of the sheet along the manipulation path .","The sheet to be folded by the sheet preparation module  is driven along the manipulation path  by the one or more sets of servo control rollers  to the folding unit  and the fold rollers  and . The sheet continues along  to the one or more sets of servo control nip rollers . The sheet enters the one or more sets of servo control nip rollers , which drive the leading edge of the sheet forward until the desired fold positions is at the fold roll location between the fold rollers  and . The one or more sets of servo control nip rollers  are quickly reversed, driving the lead edge of the sheet backwards. The trailing edge of the sheet is driven forward by the drive roller , causing the sheet to buckle into the fold rollers  and . The fold rollers  and  acquire the sheet by the fold roller  rolling clockwise and the fold roller  rotating counter-clockwise. This motion of the fold rollers  and  causes a fold to be made into the sheet. The folded sheet continues along the fold path  to the second folding area of the folding unit .","In the second folding area, a second fully controlled fold, if needed, is performed using the same technique used in the initial folding area. It should be appreciated that the folding controls in both the initial fold area and second fold area allow any number of fold positions to be performed on a sheet-by-sheet basis and enable the folding of different sized sheets.","It should be appreciated that, if two folds are to be formed in the sheet, the type of fold, such as z-fold or c-fold, is controlled by selecting the location where the first fold is formed along the length of the sheet, where the length is the dimension of the sheet along the manipulation path . That is, when the folded sheet exits the first set of fold rollers  and , the fold becomes the leading edge of the sheet. If the first fold is formed closer to the original leading edge than to the trailing edge, a first flap portion of the sheet formed by the fold will be on the side of the sheet facing the fold roller . In various exemplary embodiments, if the first and second fold areas are arranged as shown in , when the sheet is driven into the fold rollers of the second folding area, the first flap portion of the sheet formed by the first set of fold rollers  and  will be on the same side of the sheet from a second flap portion of the sheet formed by the fold rollers of the second fold area. As a result, a c-fold is formed in the sheet.","If the first fold is formed closer to the trailing edge than to the original leading edge, the first flap portion of the sheet formed by the fold will be on the side of the sheet facing the fold roller . In various exemplary embodiments, if the first and second fold areas are arranged as shown in , when the sheet is driven into the fold rollers of the second folding area, the first flap portion of the sheet formed by the first set of fold rollers  and  will be on the opposite side of the sheet from a second flap portion of the sheet formed by the fold rollers of the second fold area. As a result, a z-fold is formed in the sheet. It should be appreciated that, if the second folding area is arranged differently, the relative locations where the first fold is formed along the sheet to obtained a c-fold and a z-fold could be reversed.","A sheet not requiring a second fold continues along the fold path  to the inverter area . A sheet requiring a second fold exits the folding unit  via the second fold path  to the inverter area .","Sheets can be inverted prior to being sent to the finisher module .  depicts an inverter  for the sheet preparation module . The inverter  includes an inverter path  and an inverter gate . One or more sets of transport nip rollers  and  are aligned with an exit path  and the inverter path  to control the sheet along both paths.","A sheet to be output through a sheet discharging outlet  that will not be inverted continues from the manipulation path  through the exit path  to the bypass path . In the bypass path , the sheet is then ejected from the sheet preparation module  via the sheet-discharging outlet . A sheet not inverted can also continue from the manipulation path  through the inverter path . and then be transported along the bypass path  to the tray path  by opening the gate . The sheet is then ejected from the sheet preparation module  to the top tray  via the tray exit .","A sheet is inverted to change its orientation. In general, the orientation is changed to swap the leading edge for trailing edge, that is, so that the trailing edge before inversion becomes the leading edge after inversion. For a sheet that is to be sent to the sheet discharging outlet  to be inverted, the inverter gate  is opened to divert the sheet into the inverter path . The sheet is transported along the inverter path  by the one or more sets of transport nip rollers  to the bypass path  and into one or more sets of servo controlled nip rollers . When the sheet is fully on the bypass path , the one or more sets of servo controlled nip rollers  reverse and send the sheet back along the bypass path  towards the exit . The sheet can then be ejected from the sheet preparation module  by transporting it back along the bypass path  to the sheet-discharging outlet .","In various exemplary embodiments, it is also possible to invert as sheet that is to be output to the top tray . To invert such a sheet, the inverter gate  remains closed to divert the sheet into the exit path  and onto the bypass path  towards the exit . The sheet is transported along the bypass path  to one or more sets of transport nip rollers positioned along the bypass path . When the sheet is fully on the bypass path , these one or more sets of transport nip rollers then reverse to drive the sheet to the one or more sets of servo controlled nip rollers . The one or more sets of servo controlled nip rollers  are then driven to send the sheet along the tray path  towards the exit  to eject the sheet from the sheet preparation module  into the top tray .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIGS. 6 and 7","b":["200","210","220","230","330"]},"In step S, the sheet is registered to ensure the sheet is properly aligned prior to manipulation. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether the sheet is to be punched. If the sheet is punched, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, the sheet passes through a sheet punch unit without being punched and operation jumps to step S. In step S, the sheet is punched one or more times to form one or more sets of holes within the sheet. Then, in step S, a determination is made whether the sheet is to be perforated. If the sheet is to be perforated, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, the sheet passes through the sheet perforation unit without being perforated and operation jumps to step S.","In step S, the sheet is perforated to form one or more lines of perforation in the sheet. Next, in step S a determination is made whether the sheet is to be folded to form a first fold. If the sheet is to be folded, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, the sheet passes through the sheet fold unit without being folded and operation jumps to step S. In step S, the sheet is folded to form a first fold. Then, in step S, a determination is made whether a second fold is to be formed in the sheet. If so, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, the sheet passes through the second fold portion of the sheet fold unit without being folded a second time and operation jumps to step S. In step S, the sheet is folded a second time. Operation then continues to step S.","In step S, a determination is made whether the sheet is to be output to the finisher module. If the sheet is to be output to the finisher module, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S. In step S, a determination is made whether the sheet is to be inverted. If the sheet is to be inverted, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps directly to step S. In step S, the sheet is inverted. Then in step S, the sheet is output from the sheet preparation module to the finisher module. Operation then jumps to step S.","In contrast, in step S, a determination is made whether the sheet is to be inverted. If the sheet is to be inverted, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps directly to step S. In step S, the sheet is inverted. Then in step S, the sheet is output from the sheet preparation module into an output tray or the like. Operation then continues to step S, where operation of the method ends. Of course, it should be appreciated that, if inverting the sheet that is to be output to the output tray is not implemented, steps S and S are omitted and, in step , the uninverted sheet is output to the output tray or the like.","While this invention has been described in conjunction with various exemplary embodiments, it is to be understood that many alternatives, modifications and variations would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the preferred embodiments of this invention, as set forth above are intended to be illustrative, and not limiting. Various changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments of the invention will be described in detail with reference to the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 2 and 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 2 and 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIGS. 6 and 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
