---
title: Method and apparatus for interactively retrieving content related to previous query results
abstract: The invention relates to a method and system for automatically identifying and presenting video clips or other media to a user at a client device. One embodiment of the invention provides a method for updating a user profile or other persistent data store based on user feedback to improve the identification of video clips or other media content responsive to the user's profile. Embodiments of the invention also provide methods for processing user feedback. Related architectures are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060906&OS=08060906&RS=08060906
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property II, L.P.
number: 08060906
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030606
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of nonprovisional application Ser. No. 10\/163,091 (filed Jun. 6, 2002), which is itself a continuation-in-part of nonprovisional application Ser. No. 10\/034,679 (filed Dec. 28, 2001) now abandoned. This application is also a continuation-in-part of nonprovisional application Ser. No. 10\/034,679. Nonprovisional application Ser. No. 10\/034,679 claims priority to provisional application No. 60\/282,204 (filed on Apr. 6, 2001) and to provisional application No. 60\/296,436 (filed on Jun. 6, 2001). This application further claims priority to provisional application No. 60\/385,915 (filed on Jun. 6, 2002) and to provisional application No. 60\/386,392 (filed on Jun. 7, 2002).","Nonprovisional application Ser. Nos. 10\/163,091 and 10\/034,679, and provisional application Nos. 60\/282,204, 60\/296,436, 60\/385,915, and 60\/386,392 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.","1. Field of the Invention","The invention relates to the identification and delivery of media assets to a user. More specifically, the invention relates to a method and system for receiving and processing feedback from the user to improve the identification and delivery of subsequent media content to the user.","2. Description of the Related Art","There exists an increasing amount of information available in a variety of media formats from a variety of sources. Known systems and methods for searching video content, for instance, rely on a search of titles or other metadata to identify entire video broadcasts or video files of potential relevance to a user. Once identified, video content is transmitted to the user via conventional methods for distribution of the video source. For example, a content provider manually directs video content to a user over closed circuit television, mails a video tape to a user, or manually generates an electronic mail (email) message with an attached video file.","Known systems and methods for identifying and delivering video or other media content have various disadvantages. For example, since known systems and methods for searching video typically identify entire video broadcasts or video files that are of interest to a user, a user may need to sort through a relatively large volume of irrelevant information to view a relatively small amount of relevant content. In addition, known systems and methods lack a means to monitor and improve the relevance of the transmitted media, except, in some instances, with reference to predetermined categories or hierarchies.","Thus, there exists a need for systems and methods that identify and present media relevant to the interests of a user, and for continually improving the relevance of the identified and presented media.","The invention relates to a method and system for improving the transmission of media content to a user.","One objective is to improve the identification of video clips or other media content that is responsive to the user's profile. Accordingly, one embodiment of the invention provides a method for updating a user profile or other persistent data store with information based on prior user feedback. Embodiments of the invention also provide methods for processing user feedback. Related architectures are also disclosed.","The features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following drawings and detailed description.","While the invention is described below with respect to various exemplary embodiments, the invention is not limited to only those embodiments that are disclosed. Other embodiments can be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Sub-headings used herein are for organizational convenience, and do not limit the disclosure of any particular feature to any particular section of this specification.","The invention solves the above-discussed problems and provides a personalized, customizable multimedia delivery service that is convenient and easy to use. In one embodiment of the invention, the service works by recording all of the video streams of appropriate source and interest to a target audience. For example, the service may record content from a collection of (or a particular one of) sports or news channels on television. In another example, the service may record content related to training videos, presentations or executive meetings in a business, school or other particularized environment. Recording may occur as the content is originally being broadcast (i.e., live), afterwards from recorded media, or even before the content is broadcast to its intended audience.","Once the content is captured and recorded, it can be segmented, analyzed and\/or classified, and thereafter stored on a platform. For example, the content can be broken down into its component parts, such as video, audio and\/or text. The text can include, for example, closed caption text associated with the original transmission, text generated from an audio portion by speech recognition software, or a transcription of the audio portion created before or after the transmission. In the latter case, it becomes possible to utilize the invention in conjunction with executive speeches, conferences, corporate training, business TV, advertising, and many other sources of video which do not typically have available an associated textual basis for searching the video.","Having obtained or generated the text, it can then be used as a basis for searching the multimedia content. In particular, the text provides the basis for an exemplary methodology for overcoming the above-identified problems associated with searching video in the prior art. That is, if a user wishes to search the stored content for video segments relevant to the President of the United States discussing a particular topic, then the President's name and the associated topic can be searched for within the text associated with the video segments. Whenever the President's name and the associated topic are located, an algorithm can be used to determine which portion of an entire video file actually pertains to the desired content and should therefore be extracted for delivery to the user. Thus, if a video file comprises an entire news broadcast about a number of subjects, the user will receive only those portions of the broadcast, if any, that pertain to the President and the particular topic desired. For example, this could include segments in which the President talks about the topic, or segments in which another talks about the topic and the President's position.","Once the pertinent segments of the broadcast have been appropriately extracted, for a given user, they can be stitched together for continuous delivery to that user. In this way, for example, the segments can be streamed to the user as a means of providing an easy-to-use delivery methodology for the user, and as a means of conserving bandwidth. Users can view the delivered multimedia asset in its entirety, skip between the assets, or view only portions of the assets, as they desire. Moreover, a user can have access to portions of the original video file that occurred immediately before or after the extracted segments; for example, the user could choose to watch the entire original video file. Such access can be granted by including a \u201cmore\u201d or \u201ccomplete\u201d button in a user interface.","In one embodiment of the invention, a profile of the user is stored which specifies criteria for searching available multimedia assets. The criteria may include, for example, key words and\/or phrases, a source(s) of the content, etc. The profile can be set directly by the user via interaction with an appropriately designed graphical user interface (GUI). When such a profile is available, the invention is capable of automatically searching the available assets on a periodic basis, and thereafter extracting, combining and delivering the compiled assets (or segments thereof, regardless of their original source) to the user. In one embodiment, the invention can be utilized such that a service platform assisting in implementing the invention notifies the user whenever new multimedia assets consistent with the user's profile have been prepared. In another embodiment, the invention may automatically deliver multimedia assets in accordance with a user's profile according to a predetermined schedule, such as hourly or daily. Alternatively, the invention may notify the user of the presence of desired video clips, rather than actually deliver those clips.","The assets can be classified and indexed on-the-fly as they are received. In this way, the assets can be compared against the user's profile virtually in real-time, so that results can be provided to the user (and the user can be notified) whenever they become available. Furthermore, a user can provide criteria for a search or searches beyond those set in the user's profile.","The identified assets can be delivered to the user in a variety of manners. For example, delivery may occur via cable or satellite television, or directly to a personal computer. The invention can be practiced via a plurality of platforms and networks. For example, the invention may be practiced over the Internet to reach a large consumer audience, or it may be practiced over an Intranet to reach a highly targeted business or industry target.","In one embodiment, the invention allows video streaming of identified video clips. Video streaming (i.e., allowing the viewing of a video clip as it is downloaded rather than only after it is downloaded, which speeds the viewing process and largely obviates the need for video storage at the user location) is a communications technique that is growing in popularity with the increasing availability of both video players (especially for use with personal computers) and bandwidth to the average consumer. However, no conventional service allows users to accurately and quickly find desired clips for playing, and do not provide a ready means for providers to profit from the video streams that are provided.","When streaming the identified video clips, users may receive only those video clips identified by a search executed on the user's behalf. However, if a user desires, he or she may also choose to view an entire program from which the clip(s) was extracted. A user may also be allowed to choose some or all of the video clips for long-term storage, whereby the clip(s) can be archived for later use. In one embodiment, the user may store the clips at a local computer, and thereafter make the clips available to other users connected via a peer-to-peer network.","In another embodiment, the invention allows improved video-on-demand (VOD). VOD is typically defined in the cable\/satellite television arena as the ability to request programming at any time and to have VCR-like controls over the content being streamed to the TV. The invention adds value to conventional VOD by allowing the user to demand video more accurately and completely.","An extension to VOD is personal video recorder (PVR) technology, which allows even more control over TV programs being viewed. Current PVR implementations are offered by TiVo and ReplayTV, and allow users great flexibility in storing programs for later viewing and\/or manipulation in viewing (e.g., skipping over commercials in a television program). The invention provides a searching tool for allowing users to find interesting programs, even from a variety of channel sources, to thereafter be recorded and viewed using PVR technology.","Moreover, whereas conventional PVR records only entire programs based on a user's directions, the invention permits the recording of only those portions of programs that the user desires. In this regard, the invention contemplates recording the desired portions either by doing so directly from the program, or by recording the entire program locally and then utilizing only those portions of the program desired by the user.","Having described various exemplary embodiments of the invention, it should be noted that the terms \u201cvideo file,\u201d \u201cvideo input,\u201d \u201cvideo,\u201d \u201cvideo program\u201d or any similar term refers generically to any analog or digital video information, including any content associated therewith, such as multimedia content, closed caption text, etc. The terms \u201cclip,\u201d \u201cvideo clip,\u201d \u201celectronic clip\u201d or \u201ceClip\u201d should be understood to refer to any subsection of a video program that is selected based on a user search criterion. Also, the terms \u201cextracting,\u201d \u201cparsing,\u201d \u201cremoving,\u201d \u201caccessing\u201d or any similar term with respect to a video file refers to the use of a selected portion of the video file. Such use may include literal removal (permanent or temporary) from the context of a larger file, copying of the selected portion for external use, or any other method for utilizing the selected portion. The term \u201cmedia clip\u201d is more general than video clip, referring to any portion of a media presentation. For example, a portion of an audio file (i.e., an audio clip) is also properly referred to as a media clip. Video clips and image sequences are also media clips.","Based on the above-described features of the invention, a user may accurately, completely and promptly receive multimedia assets that he or she finds interesting, and may conveniently exploit the received assets in a manner best-suited to that user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["Digital Video Compression: Algorithms and Technologies","Multimedia Communications","Handbook of Internet and Multimedia Systems and Applications","Handbook of Multimedia Computing"]},"In , multimedia assets including video , associated text captions  and corresponding audio portions  are imported into the system for processing. Content-based sampling engine  receives the video  and segments it into individual shots or video frames; this information will be combined with information extracted from the other components of the video program to enable the extraction of individual stories (i.e., video segments related to a particular topic or topics), as will be described. Additionally, this process allows a representative image for a particular story, segment or clip to be selected by engine ; and second, the process allows boundaries around the story, segment or clip to be set by engine .","A database  of linguistic rules is used by linguistic analysis engine  to combine the caption information  with the segmented video within engines  and , to thereby assist in the functionality of those two engines. Similarly, information within model databases  and  is used by acoustic classification engine  and program identification engine  to provide segmentation\/identification of commercials and programs, respectively. Once the multimedia asset(s) have been captured, segmented and classified as described above, they can be stored thereafter in DVL database .","All of the information from engines - is utilized in engines  and  to discern a length of a particular video story or clip that will be associated with each topic. In particular, for example, multimodal story segmentation algorithms such as those described in \u201cAutomated Generation of News Content Hierarchy By Integrating Audio, Video, and Text Information\u201d (above) can be used to determine an appropriate length of a video clip to be associated with a particular topic. Similarly, the algorithm can be used in conjunction with the user profile to either compare the profile information to newly-acquired content on-the-fly, or to similarly determine an appropriate length for a video clip to be associated with a particular portion of the user profile.","As referred to above, textual information used to identify clips of interest can be derived, for example, from closed caption text that accompanies most television programs. Real-time closed captioning typically lags behind the audio and video by a variable amount of time from about 1 to 10 seconds. To take this factor into account, the embodiment of  is capable of using speech processing to generate very accurate word timestamps.","When closed caption text is not available, a large vocabulary automatic speech recognition system can be used to generate a transcript of the audio track. While the accuracy of the automatically generated transcripts is below that of closed captions, they provide a reasonable alternative for identifying clips of interest with reduced, but acceptable, accuracy. Alternatively, a parallel text alignment algorithm can be used to import high quality off-line transcripts of the program when they are or become available.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},"In , Video Capture\/Media Analysis component  records and compresses broadcast TV programming. Also at component , various functions can be performed on the content such as scene change detection, audio analysis, and compression. These video files are shipped to the Video Storage database  from which they will be served when the video is streamed to the client .","Associated metadata is shipped to the Metadata database . Note that thumbnail images are included as part of the metadata, as well as terms and\/or phrases associated with a clip(s) for categorizing the clip(s) within a topical subset. Typically, this video capture\/media analysis process need not occur in real time. However, there is no reason why it could not occur in real time if an operator so desires and wishes to devote sufficient computational resources. In any case, it is not necessary to wait until a show is completed before indexing and searching that show.","Video Server  responds to clip requests and makes the video content available to the client . For example, the video server  may download the video clips in whole or in part, stream the clips (e.g., via MPEG4 ASF or MPEG2) to the client  or generate the clip metadata discussed above (such as terms and\/or phrases associated with a clip for categorizing the clip within a topical subset).","DVL Server  handles query requests (such as how many clips are available, which shows have clips, etc.) and\/or clip content requests (metadata that describes clip content including \u201cclip pointer\u201d to video content). Thus, it handles multimedia search (such as closed caption text) and determines the start and stop times of the clips, which are designated with \u201cclip pointers,\u201d as just mentioned.","eClips server  handles client requests for web pages related to a service for providing eClips. eClips server  utilizes Perl Common Gateway Interface (CGI) scripts that the client navigates in order to perform the functions of the eClips service. For example, the scripts deal with login\/registration related pages, home page, profile related pages, archive related pages, player pages, and administration related pages. Player scripts can be launched in a separate window. Each CGI request from the client  will return HTML with HTML DIVs, JavaScript, and CSS style sheets. The DIVs and CSS style sheets are used to position the various elements of the page. DHTML is used to dynamically load DIV content on the fly (for instance, a list of shows in an instant search pull down performed by a user).","In , three databases ,  and  are shown as Extensible Markup Language (XML) databases. Thus, Perl scripts can be utilized to access (i.e., read from and\/or write to) these databases via XML. Specifically, these three databases include show database , which contains information about recorded broadcasts, Profile database , which contains personal search terms and\/or phrases, and Archive database , which contains saved clip information (e.g., entire clips or simply clip pointers).","eClips Client , in one embodiment, includes a JavaScript that each Perl script includes in the HTML that is returned from the eClips server . It is through the JavaScript that the client  interacts with the DVL server  to determine the desired content and through JavaScript that the client initiates the streaming content with the video server . The JavaScript also accesses (reads) the Show and Profile XML files in those databases.","The Video Server  may have a separate IP host name, and should support HTTP streaming. The DVL and eClips servers  and  may have the same IP host name, and may be collocated within a single machine.","In , the key interactions that cause video to be streamed to the client  are demonstrated. In a home page view, a user has logged in already and should see a list of topics determined by their profile, as well as the number of clips for each topic. An example of a topic could be \u201csports\u201d and the keyword string associated with this topic could be football, baseball, hockey. The keyword string is used to search the CC text (in this case, clips that have any of these terms will be valid).","When the home page is loaded, JavaScript will send a CGI query to DVL server , which generates an XML response. The XML is parsed into JavaScript variables on the client using the XML document object model (DOM). The CGI query and XML response is implemented as part of the DVL system and acts as a layer above an Index Server, which, as part of the DVL server , performs text indexing of the video clips (as discussed above) that allows the user to locate a desired clip. The XML response will include the number of clips found for each topic. It is with these query responses that the home page knows which topics have hits and can activate the links to play the content.","These JavaScript links, when clicked, can launch the player page in a separate window. When the player page is loaded, essentially the same JavaScript can be used to recalculate the number of clips for each topic. In principle, this could be changed to calculate this only once and to pass this on to the player script thereafter. The JavaScript may also run a query to get the list of shows with clips for a particular topic. The JavaScript then loops through all the shows with hits and queries the DVL server via the separate CGI script to get the clip information needed to play the clip. This information is also returned via XML and parsed via the JavaScript. The JavaScript loads various DIVs that depend on this information, such as hit search term found in CC text, CC text, and thumbnail. Finally, the player page JavaScript starts the media player with the first clip using a pointer (start time) to the video. It should be noted that, in one embodiment of the invention, the just-described process is almost completely automated, so that dynamic clip extraction occurs when a clip is selected, and a show automatically starts and will play completely through if not interrupted by the user.","In the architecture shown in , eClips client  may reside on, for example, a user's home or business computer, a personal digital assistant (PDA), or a set-top box on a user's television set. Client  interacts with eClips server  as discussed above to provide the user with an interface for viewing and utilizing the video clips. Client  can be written to contain, for example, a JavaScript object that contains profile results (eClips object). A user using eClips client  running on a PC may access stored clips through a network, such as the Internet or a locally defined Intranet.","In one embodiment, the user defines a search criterion, either through an \u201cinstant search\u201d feature or within a user profile. When multiple clips are found matching the user search, the clips can be stitched together and streamed to the user as one continuous program. In another embodiment, eClips server periodically searches for clips matching a given user's profile, and makes the clips available to the user, perhaps by notifying the user via email of the availability of the clips.","The architecture shown in  allows for video to be stored and displayed in several formats including MPEG2 (e.g., for digital television and video on demand) and MPEG4 (e.g., for streaming video on the Internet). As mentioned above, the video may be stored for later use by the user; in particular, a user may archive some or all of the received video and thereafter permit searching and uploading of the video from storage by other members of a peer-to-peer computer network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["310","205","305","205","220","225","230","325","315","205","205","225","230","330","340","350","355","320"]},"Within user home  the feed is received at cable modem  via high speed data line (HSD) to a PC  running eClips client . Alternatively, the feed could be sent to Set top box  atop TV , where Set top box  runs eClips client . In the example where the video clips are received via cable modem , the service can be streamed as high speed data (HSD) through a cable modem as MPEG4 video. When the video is received via Set top box , it can be delivered as MPEG2 over video on demand (VOD) channels that could be set up in advance for a service providing the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","400","405","405","405"]},"Section  also identifies a source for the criteria used to select the various topical clips. More specifically, on a profile page, a user can select default sources (shows) which will be searched based on the user's profile; this is referred to as a \u201cMain\u201d list, and would restrict any profile topic that has the Main option to search only those shows selected on the profile page. On a topic editor page, where a user is allowed to add or modify topics for searching, the user can specify this Main list, or can make Custom selections that are only valid for a particular search topic. In section , the user has selected the latter option, and so a \u201csource\u201d is shown as Custom.","In section , the user additionally has the option of entering new search terms and\/or phrases not related to his or her current profile, whereby the invention searches a clips database via DVL server as described above with respect to . Section  indicates the media sources which will be searched for the terms or phrases entered in section .","Also, in page view , button , \u201cPlay all clips,\u201d allows a user to view all currently available clips with one click. The user can add a new topic using button . The user can return to a home page by clicking on button  (although this option is only valid when the user is on a page different from the home page  itself), access his profile via button  and access an archive of previously saved clips via button . Finally, a user can log out of the service using button .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":["500","505","505","515","520","560","565"]},"When one or more of these clips is chosen for viewing by the user, that clip is shown in section . Section  can be controlled by buttons -, which allow a user to skip to a previous clip with button , stop the clip with button , play the clip with button , skip the clip with button , switch to a new topic of clips with button  or view footage after the selected clip(s) with button . Note that section  may also include advertisements , and may display a time remaining for a currently playing clip, a source of the clip, and a date and time the clip was originally broadcast.","In one exemplary embodiment of the invention, page  will play all of the clips currently available in a predetermined order (e.g., reverse chronological order, by source of content, etc.) if the user does not choose a specific topic or clip. Button  is activated when a user wants to view the clip(s) available; i.e., as shown in view . Button  allows the user to send (e.g., email) the clip(s) to another user, and button  allows the user to save the clip(s) to an archive (i.e., the archive accessed by button  in ).","Having discussed various exemplary embodiments of the invention and associated features thereof, as well as potential uses of the invention, the following provides a more detailed summary of application categories in which the invention is of use.","Generally speaking, because the invention can capture content from nearly any multimedia source and then use standard streaming media to deliver the appropriate associated clips, it is nearly limitless in the markets and industries that it can support.","As a practical matter, the invention can be packaged to address different market segments. Therefore, it should be assumed that the target markets and applications supported could fall into, for example, any or all of the Consumer, Business-to-Consumer or Business-to-Business Marketplaces. The following discussion summarizes some exemplary application categories.","First, as a consumer offering, the invention can be provided as an extension to standard television programming. In this model, an ISP, Cable Programming Provider, Web Portal Provider, etc., may allow consumers to sign up for this service, or the set of features provided by the invention can be provided as a premium subscription.","In the consumer service model, a consumer would enter a set of keywords and\/or phrases in the profile. In addition, as part of the preferences selected in the profile the user may determine that only specific content sources should be monitored. As the user profile is created or changed it would be updated in the user profile database. As video content is captured in the system, the user profile database is matched against the closed caption text. As an example, a consumer may be interested in sports but only want to see the specific \u201cplay of the day.\u201d In this scenario, the consumer would enter the key words \u201cplay of the day\u201d and then identify in the profile the specific content sources (channels or programs) that should be recorded\/analyzed by the invention. For example, the consumer could choose channels that play sports games or report on sports news. When the consumer returns from work that evening, a site or channel for accessing the invention would be accessed. This consumer would then see all of the clips of programs that matched the keywords \u201cplay of the day,\u201d meaning that this consumer would see in one session all of the content and clips matching that set of words.","As another example, in a Business-to-Consumer offering, the invention can be provided as an extension to standard television programming. In this case, both the programming and its sponsorship would be different from the consumer model above. For example, a corporate sponsor or numerous corporate sponsors may offer specific types of content, or may offer an assemblage of content overlaid with advertising sponsorship. The sponsorship would be evident in the advertising that would be embedded in the player or in the content, since the design of the invention is modular in design and allows for customization.","In the Business-to-Consumer service model, a consumer would enter a set of keywords in the profile. As the user profile is created or changed it would be updated in the user profile database. Because this model and the content provided would be underwritten by corporate sponsorship, the content provided may be limited to a proprietary set of content. As an example, if CNN were the sponsor of the service, all of the content provided may be limited to CNN's own broadcasts. In addition, it may be very evident to the consumer that the service is brought to them by CNN in that the CNN logo may be embedded in the user interface, or may be embedded in the content itself.","Next, as a Business-to-Business offering, the invention can be used in intra-company applications as well as extra-company applications. The applications supported include, as just a few examples: Business TV, Advertising, Executive Announcements, Financial News, Training, Competitive Information Services, Industry Conferences, etc. In essence, the invention can be used as a tool to assist employees in retrieving and viewing specific portions of content on demand.","In this Business-to-Business service model, a user would enter a set of keywords in the profile that would be updated in the user profile database. In this case, the content captured will be dependent upon the business audience using the service.","In an intra-business application, the user may wish to combine sources from within the business and sources outside of the business. As an example a user may wish to see all clips dealing with the category \u201cVirtual Private Networks.\u201d In this example, a business may have planned a new advertising campaign talking about \u201cVirtual Private Networks\u201d and have an advertisement available to its internal personnel. At the same time, there may be an internal training class that has been recorded and is available internally in which a section talks about \u201cVirtual Private Networks.\u201d Again, this could be another content option captured by the invention. Also, one of this company's competitors may have provided a talk at an industry conference the day before about their solution for the \u201cVirtual Private Network\u201d area. As with the other content options, this too could be captured and available as a content option through the invention. Therefore, when our user begins a session using the invention and looks under the term \u201cVirtual Private Networks,\u201d there could be numerous clips available from multiple sources (internal and external) to provide this user with a complete multimedia view of \u201cVirtual Private Networks\u201d.","As an extra-business tool, the invention can provide businesses, their suppliers, their best customers, and all other members of communities of interests with specific targeted content clips that strengthen the relationships. These may include (but not be limited to) product details, new announcements, public relations messages, etc.","As further examples of applications of the invention, the following represent industry applications which may benefit from use of the invention.","In the financial industry, financial information can be available for both professionals and potential clients to receive late-breaking information on stocks, companies and the global markets. The information can be from a variety of sources such as Financial News Network, Bloomberg, CNN, etc. and allow users to identify key areas of interest and to continually be up to date.","In the advertising\/announcements industry, advertisers would be able to target their ads to consumers based on peoples' preferences as expressed in their profiles. This is potentially a win\/win situation because people would not be getting any more ads but they would be seeing more things that interest them. Advertisers could charge more for this targeted approach and thereby pay for any costs associated with the invention.","Similarly, large companies run TV advertisements for a multitude of products, services, target markets, etc. These companies could benefit by housing these commercials on an on-line database that can be accessible to their marketing staff, the advertising agencies, and clients interested in seeing particular commercials that used specific words or product names. The invention can then allow these commercials to be easily searched and accessed.","In the entertainment industry, the movie industry can use the invention to easily scan through archives of old and new movie footage that can be digitized and stored in a central repository. Sports highlights can be made available for particular games or events. Networks could maintain a library of indexed TV shows (e.g., PBS) where users can search for a particular episode\/topic.","In the travel industry, searches can be done on new information in the travel industry such as airlines, causes of delays, etc. In addition, the invention can be used to provide key clips from specific resorts and other potential vacation destinations.","In the distance learning\/education industry, a large variety of courses could be stored on-line. In many circumstances, a user may want to only see the salient points on a specific topic of interest. The invention can then play a key role in providing support to the user for access and retrieval of the key needed information.","For conferences and trade events, the invention can be an information dissemination tool for finding the latest information quickly when videos are captured of talks and demonstrations in key events.","In one embodiment of the invention, the relevance of subsequent media is improved based on feedback from the user. Exemplary implementations are discussed with reference to  below. Although the following description is with respect to the delivery of video clips, the same or similar process could be implemented for audio clips, sequenced images, and\/or other media clips or media content as an alternative to, or in combination with, video clips.","Relevance Feedback Processing Overview",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["605","610","615","620","625","630","635","635","610","615"]},"In operation, the process depicted in  can be repeated many times to increasingly tailor each subsequent search according to user feedback. Moreover, portions of the process depicted in  may be iterated. For example, receiving step  and processing step  may be repeated for each of several video clips before updating the user profile in step . In addition, the process of  can be operated according to various time frames. For example, upon receiving feedback from the client in step , the system can be configured to automatically perform steps , , , , and  to present the user with a next set of video clips or other media in an effort to provide content that is more relevant to the user's topical interest. In the alternative, or in combination, subsequent searches can be launched at predetermined times or at predetermined time intervals (e.g., minutes, hours, days, months, or years) subsequent to an initial search. In the alternative, or in combination, subsequent searches can be launched in response to user demand.","Although the output of processing step  is variously described herein as being one or more keywords, alternative embodiments of processing step  output other information such as program title, images, sounds, date\/time stamp, a user feedback parameter (such a as a positive or negative indication) and\/or other information in the alternative or in combination with keywords to update information in the user profile.","In a variation of the process depicted in , step  is replaced by storing (and\/or deleting) keywords and\/or other information in a persistent data store, and step  determines new video clips or other media content based on the user profile, the keywords and\/or other information in the persistent data store, and the metadata index.","Portions of the relevance feedback process illustrated in  are detailed below.","Receiving Feedback","Feedback is received from the user (client) in step . In a first embodiment of step , the feedback includes user-selected text. The selection is made, for instance, by using click-and-drag techniques, or by selecting hyper-linked text. In a second embodiment of step , a user provides a rating, ranking, or other relevance weighting for one or more of the presented video clips. In a third embodiment of step , the feedback includes information about user actions performed in response to the presented video clips. For instance, the feedback may be the fact that a user: selected a video clip; viewed X % of a video clip; replayed a video clip; stored a video clip; forwarded a video clip via email; skipped a video clip; and\/or fast-forwarded through at least a portion of a video clip. The feedback may also include the date and\/or time that a user viewed a video clip, and\/or the source of a video clip that a user selected. The three embodiments of step  may be used in the alternative or in any combination. As indicated above, after feedback is received, the feedback is processed to generate keywords and\/or other information.","Processing Feedback",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["630","625","705","710","710"]},"In the alternative, step  may include counting all instances of the selected word, or any variation thereof, in the video clip. For example, where a video clip includes CCT, and where the user has selected the phrase \u201cjava beans is a interesting technology,\u201d the process may first select the word \u201cjava\u201d in step , then look for all instances of java (selected or not) that appear in the CCT in step . The result of step  is a frequency (total count) of the selected word in the subject media.","In one embodiment of step , the frequency is adjusted based on the normal occurrence of the word in the native language. For example, if the word \u201cjava\u201d normally occurs once in every 10,000 words in English literature, the word \u201cbeans\u201d normally occurs once in every 5,000 words in English literature, and both \u201cjava\u201d and \u201cbeans\u201d appear five times in the CCT associated with the selected video clip, then step  may adjust the frequency for \u201cjava\u201d to be twice that of \u201cbeans.\u201d","The frequency is then compared to a predetermined frequency threshold in conditional step . If the output of conditional step  is positive, then the word is saved as a keyword in step . Note that if the predetermined frequency threshold is 0, then all selected words are saved as keywords in step . If the output of conditional step  is negative, or upon the completion of saving step , then the process advances to conditional step  to determine whether all words have been processed. If not, then the process continues at step  by selecting a next word and returning to step . Otherwise, the process terminates in step  by outputting all saved keywords. Thus, words included in user-selected text that appear more frequently in the selected text (or in the media being viewed) than they appear in the native language can be output as keywords from feedback processing step .","The process illustrated in  and described above may be most applicable to instances where a user has selected a paragraph of text, and least applicable to instances where a user has selected a single word or phrase. Indeed, where a user has selected a single word or phrase in feedback step , it may be preferable to pass the user selection directly to update step  without intermediate processing in step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["630","625","805","810","805","810","815","820","825","830","825","630"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0104","num":"0103"},"figref":"FIG. 9","b":["810","905","910","915","915"]},"In conditional step , the process determines whether the received feedback is positive (ie., whether the user's feedback is indicative that the video clip is relevant to a user's interests). If the feedback is determined to be positive, then a parameter P is added to the weight parameter in step , and the process returns to step  to process the next feedback item. If, however, the feedback is not positive (i.e., the feedback is negative), then the process subtracts a parameter Q from the weight parameter in step  before returning to step . Thus, all user actions relating to a particular video clip are factored into the calculation of a single weight as illustrated in .","Conditional step  can operate so that cases where a user selects a video clip from a menu, plays more than 50% of a video clip or other media content, replays a video clip, stores a video clip, or forwards a video clip via email are representative of positive feedback. Conversely, conditional step  operate so that user actions such as fast-forwarding or skipping (not selecting a presented video clip or other media content for play) are negative feedback. The execution of conditional step  may include checking the video clip or other media content against previously presented content to ensure that forwarding or skipping content that is duplicative or very similar to what has already been presented to the user is not treated as negative feedback. Accordingly, user feedback is classified as positive or negative, and a relevance parameter can be calculated according to the process flow in .","Each of the parameters P, Q, and R depicted in  may be a constant or a variable. Where a parameter is variable, it can be derived from a table or formula.","In an embodiment of the process depicted in  where both P and Q are constants, all positive feedback influences the weight equally, and all negative feedback influences the weight equally. Thus, where a user plays more than 50% of a selected video clip and then stores the video clip for future use, for instance, the weight of the video clip is R+2*P.","In an embodiment of the process depicted in  where P and Q are both based on table-assigned values, user actions may not be weighed the same.  is an illustration of a table for assigning values to feedback parameters, according to one embodiment of the process depicted in . As shown therein, the user actions listed in column  are assigned positive weights P in column  or negative weights Q in column . According to the example in , the process would add 4 to the relevance weight of a video clip in step  where a user replays a video clip, but would only add 2 to the relevance weight of a video clip in step  where a user forwards the video clip via email. Skipping a media clip alternatively refers to passively not selecting a media clip or actively deselecting a media clip. Other weights can be assigned to these and other actions. But, in general, each of the positive weights P and negative weights Q may be assigned different values.","As described above, the media clips referred to in  may be video clips, audio clips, or other media clips.","In an embodiment of the process depicted in  where both P and Q are determined by formulas, user actions again may not be weighed the same. For example, the value of parameter P may be determined based on the proportion of a video clip that is viewed by the user. Other formulas are also possible.","Parameter R may be a constant reset value, for example 0. In the alternative, parameter R is an initial weight calculated in step  without the benefit of user feedback (see, e.g., step  in  below). In this latter case, the process in  adjusts the previously calculated weight based on the user feedback.","The preceding discussion of user feedback processing provides a foundation for the following section.","Identifying Video Clips or Other Media Content in View of Prior Feedback",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["615","635","805","810"]},"As shown in , the process begins by comparing keywords or other information in the user profile to a metadata index in step . Next, a weight is calculated for candidate video clips in step . As used throughout this document, the weight is an indication of relevance to the user's interests. The process selects a first candidate video clip in step . Step  may be executed, for example, by selecting the candidate video clip associated with the highest weight (as calculated in step ). A determination is made in conditional step  as to whether feedback exists for the present user. In other words, the inquiry in conditional step  is whether the user profile for the present user includes a user feedback parameter associated with a video clip that has been previously presented to the user. The user profile may include a feedback parameter for each of several associated video clips that have been presented to the user in the past.","If the result of conditional step  is in the affirmative, the process advances to weight adjusting step . The weight adjustment in step  is a function of: a) correlation between the candidate video clip to a previously presented video clip; and b) the feedback parameter of the previously presented video clip. For example, where a candidate video clip receives a low weight in step  (indicating low relevance), where the candidate video clip has a high correlation with a previously presented video clip, and where the feedback parameter associated with the previously presented video clip is positive, then the weight of the candidate video clip is increased in step . Likewise, where a candidate video clip receives a high weight in step  (indicating high relevance), where the candidate video clip has a high correlation with a previously presented video clip, and where the feedback parameter associated with the previously presented video clip is negative, then the weight of the candidate video clip is decreased in step .","If the result of conditional step  is negative, or subsequent to weight adjusting step , the process advances to conditional step  where it is determined whether the weight of the candidate video clip exceeds a predetermined weight threshold. If so, then the candidate video clip is saved as an identified video clip in step .","If the result of conditional step  is negative, or subsequent to step , the process advances to conditional step  to determine whether the identification process is complete. Step  may consider, for example, whether all candidate video clips have been assessed. In the alternative, step  may compare the number of video clips saved in step  to a predetermined presentation threshold. For example, the identification process illustrated in  may end in step  after  video clips have been identified. Where conditional step  determines that the process is not complete, the process advances to step  to select a next candidate video clip before returning to conditional step . Step  can be executed by selecting the candidate video clip having the next highest weight based on calculation step .","Accordingly, the identification of video clips in step  can be improved based on previous user feedback for similar video clips, as shown in .","In an alternative embodiment of step , the process illustrated in  is amended so that conditional step  and adjustment step  are deleted. In such an embodiment, selection step  and selection step  directly feed conditional step .","The weight threshold used in conditional step  can be automatically adjusted as described below.","Adjusting the Weight Threshold",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0122","num":"0121"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 11"],"b":["1130","1120","1125"]},"Execution of the automatic adjustment process described below may be most appropriate after receiving user feedback associated with multiple presented video clips. The process illustrated in  again requires that a positive\/negative user feedback parameter be associated with each presented video clip and stored in the user profile (or, alternatively, in a persistent data store).","As shown in , the process begins by selecting a set of previously presented video clips in step . In step , the process reads weights that were calculated in step  for each of the video clips in the selected set. Then, in step , the process reads positive\/negative user feedback parameters that were stored in step  for each of the video clips in the selected set.","It is noted that the weight of each video clip in the set of previously presented video clips exceeds the current weight threshold. As an example, consider the case where the prior weight threshold was 5, and the set of previously presented video clips includes five video clips having calculated weights of 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 (video clips having weights of 5 or less were never presented to the user).","It is determined whether positive feedback exists for only the higher weighted video clips in conditional step . For instance, where only the video clips having calculated weights of 9 and 10 have positive user feedback associated with them, then conditional step  would be answered in the affirmative, and the weight threshold would be incremented in step  (for example from 5 to 6).","If conditional step  is answered in the negative, then it is determined in conditional step  whether positive feedback exists for all video clips in the set of previously presented video clips. For instance, where each of the video clips having calculated weights of 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 have positive user feedback associated with them, then conditional step  would be answered in the affirmative (indicating that the threshold may be too high), and the weight threshold would be decremented in step  (for example from 5 to 4).","If conditional step  is answered in the negative, then it is determined in conditional step  whether negative feedback exists for lower weighted video clips in the set of previously presented video clips. For instance, where only the video clips having calculated weights of 6 and 7 have negative user feedback associated with them, then conditional step  would be answered in the affirmative (indicating that the threshold was too low), and the weight threshold would be incremented in step  (for example from 5 to 6).","The process repeats itself for another set of previously presented video clips by returning to step  upon the completion of steps , , and\/or , or subsequent to a negative response in conditional step .","Accordingly, the process illustrated in  makes adjustments to the weight threshold used in conditional step  of identification step . The consequence of such an adjustment to the weight threshold is an improvement in the relevance of video clips that are identified in step  and presented to the user in step .","The same or similar process illustrated in  can also be used to adjust the weight threshold used in conditional step  of processing step  to improve the selection of keywords, feedback parameters, or other information used to update the user profile or persistent data store. Moreover, the weight thresholds used in conditional steps  and  may be the same or different, according to design choice.","Architecture",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0131"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":["1305","1310","1315","1320","1325","1330","1340","1335"]},"Client  may be a personal computer, tablet PC, electronic picture frame device, radio, pager, personal digital assistant, facsimile, smart phone, wireless phone, wired phone, television, personal video recorder, game console, or other device capable of delivering media content to a user.","In one embodiment, the servers depicted in  are, or include, features depicted in . For example, Multimedia Content  may be or include Video Server  and\/or Video Storage ; Metadata Index  may be or include Meta DB ; Search Engine  may be or include DVL Server  and\/or eClips server ; Multimedia Processor  may be or include Video Capture\/Media analysis ; User profile  may be or include Profile DB ; and Client  may be or include eClips Client .","Advantageously, the architecture illustrated in  can be configured to perform the process illustrated in  using standard programming languages, database structures, and networking protocols. For example, search engine  can be configured to perform step  (including the embodiment in ). In addition, Feedback Processor  can be configured to perform steps  and\/or  (including the processes depicted in ).","In alternative embodiments of the functional architecture, the servers illustrated in  are not all coupled to a common link. In addition, a persistent data store (described above but not shown in ) may be a part of the functional architecture. For instance, a persistent data store may be hosted on a server (not shown in ) that is coupled to link . In some embodiments, functional blocks may be combined or further parsed according to ordinary design considerations.","In conclusion, a service for providing personalized multimedia assets such as electronic clips from video programs, based upon personal profiles, has been presented. In one embodiment, it uses text to ascertain the appropriate clips to extract and then assembles these clips into a single session. Thus, users only see the specific portions of videos that they desire. Therefore, users do not have to undertake the arduous task of manually finding desired video segments, and further don't have to manually select the specified videos one at a time. Rather, the invention generates all of the desired content automatically. Moreover, one embodiment of the invention provides a system and method for receiving and processing user feedback to improve the relevance of subsequently identified and presented video clips or other media.","While this invention has been described in various explanatory embodiments, other embodiments and variations can be effected by a person of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The invention is described with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
