---
title: Low-noise, switchable RF-lightwave synthesizer
abstract: A frequency synthesizer for generating a multiple tone lightwave signal that can be converted into an RF carrier or local oscillator signal. The frequency synthesizer comprises a multiple mode master laser, two slave lasers injection-locked to the master laser, an optical coupler coupling the optical outputs of the two slave lasers, which produces an optical heterodyne output. The frequency synthesizer further comprises a homodyne phase-lock loop providing feedback control over one of the slave lasers and a heterodyne phase-lock loop providing feedback control over the other slave laser. A local oscillator selector is used to select the optical mode to which one of the slave lasers is locked, thus providing selection of the frequencies of the heterodyne output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06963442&OS=06963442&RS=06963442
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 06963442
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030416
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/373,739, filed Apr. 17, 2002, the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.","The present document is related to the copending U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/373,742, filed Apr. 17, 2002, and entitled \u201cAn Integrated Optical Circuit for Effecting Stable Injection Locking of Laser Diode Pairs Used for Microwave Signal Synthesis.\u201d The contents of this related application are hereby incorporated by reference herein.","This invention was reduced to practice on a RFLICs government Contract No. F3361500-C-1674 with AFRL. The government has certain rights in this invention.","The present disclosure relates to generation of lightwave signals. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to the generation of a lightwave signal with variable tones that can be converted into a variable RF carrier or local oscillator signal.","Frequency synthesis is used to generate signals at one or more precise frequencies. These signals may then be used to perform frequency conversion in radio frequency (RF) sensor and communication systems. Frequency synthesis may be provided by several different methods. Of concern in frequency synthesis is the phase and frequency stability of the generated signal. Since the generated signal may be used as a local oscillator signal for frequency up-conversion or down-conversion, instability in the signal results in decreased signal-to-noise performance.","One method of frequency synthesis involves the generation of a multiple tone lightwave signal that can be converted into an RF carrier or local oscillator signal. In this method, optical heterodyning is used to create a sum or difference beat frequency between two optical wavelength tones. The sum or difference beat frequency is then detected by a photodetector or similar apparatus to generate an RF carrier or local oscillator signal. However, the stability of the beat frequency signal is limited by the relative stability of the optical wavelength tones to each other. Of course, the relative stability of the optical tones may be affected by the absolute stability of the tones.","Logan in U.S. Pat. No. 5,379,309, issued Jan. 3, 1995, describes an optical heterodyning apparatus, shown in , that provides a beat frequency signal with improved stability. In , two slave lasers ,  are injection-locked to different optical modes of a master laser  to create two phase-coherent laser signals at different frequencies, fand f. The phase-coherent signals are then combined to create a beat frequency at f-f. Since the master laser  is mode-locked, all of the modes have a well-defined phase relationship that is time-invariant. An RF reference oscillator  of a fixed frequency is used to mode lock the master laser. The frequency of the RF reference  sets the minimum frequency spacing between the modes. Note that the output of the mode-locked master laser is a periodic series of pulses, which results in the output having a frequency spectrum with multiple frequency tones corresponding to multiple modes. The multi-mode master laser  is capable of generating hundreds of locked modes spanning more than 100 GHz. Injection-locking the slave lasers ,  to the master laser  provides that each slave laser ,  is tuned to have an output frequency that corresponds to only one mode of the multimode output of the master laser . The outputs of the slave lasers ,  are continuous wave signals. Therefore, the apparatus disclosed by Logan is capable of generating a large number of possible RF carrier signals or local oscillator signals over a wide frequency range. The frequency of these signals is selected by tuning the slave lasers ,  to select pairs of maser laser modes with a difference in frequency equal to the desired frequency of the RF carrier signals or local oscillator signals to be produced.","In the apparatus disclosed by Logan, in injection-locking the slave lasers ,  to the master laser , the stability of the heterodyne beat signal is degraded by the instability of the laser signals produced by the two injection-locked lasers , . The heterodyne beat signal has phase noise that is several orders of magnitude worse than the heterodyne beat signal that could be directly produced from two modes of the master laser. This degradation in phase noise performance is due to the dependence of the phase noise performance on the linewidths and phase noise characteristics of the free running slave lasers.","Alternative prior art apparatus comprise multiple slave lasers injection-locked to current modulation sidebands of a master semiconductor laser, as disclosed by K. Kihuchi, C. E. Zah, and T. P. Lee in J. Lightwave Technology, v. 6, n. 12, 1988, pp. 1821-1830. However, only a small number of sideband frequency tones are produced. Thus, only a small number of possible RF carrier signals or local oscillator signals may be generated by optically heterodyning the outputs of the slave lasers.","Other prior art apparatus combine optical injection locking with an optical phase lock loop. See, for example, R. Ramos, et. al, Optics Letters, vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 4-6,1994; A. C. Bordonalli, C. Walton and A. J. Seeds, J. Lightwave Technology, vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 328-342, 1999; L. A. Johansson and A. J. Seeds, IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 690-692, June 2000.  shows a prior art apparatus in which optical injection locking is used with an optical phase-lock loop.","In , a single slave laser  is optically injection locked to a single master laser . A photodetector  is used to detect the difference between the output of the master laser  and the output of the slave laser  to generate an error signal. The error signal is then directed to a loop filter  that controls the current drive of the slave laser .  illustrates a configuration of the prior art apparatus with either a homodyne phase-lock loop or a heterodyne phase lock loop. The heterodyne phase-lock loop is provided by the elements shown within the dotted box . The elements of the heterodyne phase-lock loop comprise an offset generator , a phase detector  and a modulator . The modulator  receives a continuous wave signal from the offset generator  that causes the optical signal from the master laser  to have an additional frequency tone and the slave laser  locks to this additional frequency tone. The phase detector  generates the error signal based on the difference between the signal output by the offset generator and the beat signal generated by the difference between the output of the master laser  and the output of the slave laser . A homodyne phase-lock loop is provided by removing the components of the heterodyne phase-lock loop depicted within the box . Essentially, point A is directly connected to point B on FIG.  and point C is directly connected to point D on  to provide an apparatus having a homodyne phase-lock loop. With a homodyne phase-lock loop, the outputs of the master laser  and the slave laser  should be at the same frequency.","The prior art apparatus depicted in  provides that the constraints of the design of the phase-lock loop may be relaxed by using optical injection locking. However, the measured phase noise is still high (greater than \u221295 dBc\/Hz at 10 KHz offset). The phase noise spectrum still is dependent on the linewidths of both the master and slave lasers, although that dependence is reduced by the loop transfer function.","As discussed above, the beat frequency produced at the photodetector  when a heterodyne phase-lock loop is used is equal to the frequency of the offset generator . If the heterodyne output is to be switchable among various radio frequency or local oscillator frequencies, the offset generator would also need to be switchable among those same frequencies. Prior art apparatus that use switchable or multiple RF reference signal generators to amplitude modulate the light from a single laser without relying upon optical heterodyning and optical injection are known in the art. See, for example, Daniel Yap, et al., \u201cSwitched Photonic Link For Distribution of Local-Oscillator Signals,\u201d IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, vol. 12, no. 11, November 2000, pp. 1552-1554. Apparatus that use optical heterodyning and optical injection that also require the use of switchable or multiple RF reference generators provide little advantage over this known art.","Thus, there still exists a need in the art for a switchable frequency synthesizer that can produce a radio frequency carrier or local oscillator signal with low phase noise and minimizes amplitude fluctuations without requiring a switchable RF reference generator or multiple RF reference generators.","Embodiments of the present invention are based upon a known method for generating a multi-tone lightwave signal that can be converted into a switchable RF carrier or local-oscillator signal. The known method is based on optical heterodyning, in which the (difference) beat frequency between two optical-wavelength tones is used to generate a RF tone. Two different single-tone lasers, such as distributed-feedback laser diodes, produce the two optical wavelength tones. With this method, the phase noise of the RF tone is degraded by the linewidths and other phase noise characteristics of the two single-tone lasers. Embodiments of the present invention achieve a switchable RF tone that has much lower phase noise than prior art apparatus that use only optical injection locking.","Embodiments of the present invention have at least two \u201cslave\u201d lasers that are optical-injection locked to different tones produced by a \u201cmaster\u201d laser, preferably a multitone, mode-locked laser. An exemplary embodiment that produces a single optical heterodyne output comprises two slave lasers. The two, single-tone, \u201cslave\u201d lasers can be considered as being a primary laser and a secondary laser. An optoelectronic phase-lock loop is used to reduce the linewidth of the primary laser. This loop takes the homodyne outputs of the primary laser and the tone (from the mode-locked laser) used to optical-injection lock that laser to produce a feedback correction signal for the first laser. Another, switchable, optoelectronic phase-lock loop is used to reduce the phase noise of the heterodyne signal produced by combining the outputs of the primary and secondary lasers. This loop converts that heterodyne output into an electronic signal, reduces the frequency of the heterodyne signal with a switchable electronic frequency divider, compares the frequency-divided signal with a low-noise RF reference oscillator, and produces a error signal for feedback correction of the secondary laser. The same RF reference oscillator is also used to phase lock the various tones of the mode-locked laser. Thus, it may even be possible to cancel out some of the phase noise of the mode-locked laser as well.","Different RF-carrier or local-oscillator signal frequencies can be generated by optical-injection locking the two, single-tone, \u201cslave\u201d lasers to different pairs of tones produced by the \u201cmaster\u201d mode-locked laser. These frequencies occur at discrete steps that correspond to the tone spacing of the mode-locked laser, which is set by the RF reference oscillator. The signal frequency is switched by changing the current-drive or temperature of the secondary laser. The divide-ratio of the electronic frequency divider likewise is switched to match the selected signal frequency.","Embodiments of the present invention achieve the generation of both an RF and a lightwave tone whose phase noise is comparable to the multiplied phase noise of the RF reference. Prior art approaches, which employ only optical-injection locking, still produce heterodyne tones whose phase noise is several orders of magnitude worse than the multiplied phase noise of the RF reference. Embodiments of the present invention use an optoelectronic phase-lock loop to lock the heterodyne output to the RF reference. Thus, the phase noise of that heterodyne output is reduced significantly. Other embodiments of the present invention use both a heterodyne phase-lock loop and a homodyne phase-lock loop to provide feedback signals to both the secondary and the primary lasers. The dual phase-lock loops further reduce the phase noise.","The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein.","An RF-lightwave synthesizer  according to the present invention is shown in FIG. . The RF-lightwave synthesizer  comprises two main subsystems, an optical injection-locking subsystem depicted in  within the dotted box labeled as  and an optical heterodyne phase-lock loop, depicted in  within the dotted box labeled as . Alternative embodiments of the RF lightwave synthesizer may also include an optical homodyne phase-lock loop, depicted in  within the dotted box labeled as . The output from the synthesizer  comprises a photonic local-oscillator signal or carrier that can be used as the optical transmitter source for an external-modulation photonic link. Hence, the output may be modulated with an RF signal by a lightwave modulator . The optical output, modulated or unmodulated, may then be converted to an electrical signal by a photodetector , .","The optical-injection locking subsystem comprises a master laser , and two single-tone (single wavelength) slave lasers , , preferably distributed feedback laser diodes. The optical outputs of the slave lasers ,  are combined, preferably through an optical coupler , to produce a heterodyne output. The optical coupler  may be a fiber coupler, a waveguide coupler, or an integrated optical device providing optical coupling capability. The optical outputs may also be combined with free space optical combiners, such as polarization selective beam splitters\/combiners and polarization rotators. Other means for combining the optical outputs of the slave lasers ,  may be used and are generally known to those skilled in the art.","Optical heterodyning of the tones of two separate lasers to produce a local oscillator signal is well-known in the art. As described by Logan, the phase noise of the optical heterodyne output is reduced by injection-locking the two lasers to a single laser source. Preferred embodiments of the present invention have a multi-line (or multi-tone) laser reference , that serves as a \u201cmaster\u201d oscillator for optical-injection locking the tones produced by the two or more single-tone lasers , , which are considered as the \u201cslave\u201d lasers. The process of optical-injection locking is well known. A preferred version of the multi-line laser reference is a mode-locked laser that is actively locked to a RF-reference oscillator . The RF-reference oscillator  sets the spacing between the tones of the mode-locked laser  and ensures that the tone spacing is correlated, although each tone may itself have larger linewidth. The frequency of the heterodyne output signal can be switched by switching the injection-locking ranges of the \u201cslave\u201d lasers ,  so that they coincide with a different pair of tones from the mode-locked laser .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["410","201","201","211","213","410","211","213","211","213","201","410","421","423","211","213","211","213","201"]},"The dual-slave optical-injection locking approach described above generates a heterodyne output whose phase noise tracks that of the RF-reference oscillator, multiplied to the frequency of the heterodyne output. However, there also is an added residual phase noise that is attributed solely to the optical-injection locking approach. The residual phase noise depends primarily on the linewidth of the free-running slave lasers, the optical-injection locking bandwidth of the slave lasers and the detuning. The frequency detuning is the difference between the frequency of the free-running slave laser and the frequency of the tone from the master laser to which the slave is locked. The best value achieved in the prior art is a residual phase noise of approximately \u2212120 dBc\/Hz for offsets from the carrier (the peak frequency) of less than 1 MHz.","To minimize the residual phase noise, it is desirable to have a large injection-locking bandwidth and zero detuning. The maximum allowable value for the locking bandwidth is determined by the tone spacing of the mode-locked laser. The homodyne optical phase-lock loop subsystem  provides the ability to ensure that one of the slave lasers, the primary laser , is set to a detuning of zero. The homodyne optical phase-lock loop subsystem  uses the outputs of the multi-tone master laser  and the primary slave laser . The optical outputs from both the master laser  and the primary slave laser  are coupled into a dual, quadrature photoreceiver . Any difference between the frequencies and phases of those outputs results in an electronic error signal produced by the photoreceiver . The photoreceiver  is known in the art and may consist of two photodetectors arranged in a quadrature configuration followed in many cases by an electronic preamplifier. The photoreceiver output is fed into a loop filter , typically a second-order filter, whose output is combined with the bias current of the primary slave laser  to minimize the phase error of the loop. Designs for the loop filter are known in the art.","One possible implementation of the quadrature photoreceiver  is shown on FIG. . This implementation is described by Kazovsky and Atlas in \u201cA 1320-nm Experimental Phase-Locked Loop: Performance Investigation and PSK Homodyne Experiments at 140 MB\/s and 2 Gb\/s,\u201d , vol 8, no. 9, September 1990, pp. 1414-1425,. This photoreceiver  comprises an optical 3 dB coupler  with two optical inputs and two optical outputs. The optical 3 dB coupler  is known in the art and may be provided by an integrated optical waveguide device or an optical fiber device.","In the photoreceiver  depicted in , the optical inputs of the 3 dB coupler  are coupled to the optical outputs of the master laser  and the primary slave laser . The two optical outputs of the 3 dB coupler  each feed one of two photodetector diodes , . The two photodetector diodes ,  are connected electrically in a reverse-biased balanced and differential configuration, as shown in FIG. . The output current produced by the two photodetectors ,  is converted into a voltage by a transimpedance amplifier . The output voltage of the transimpedance amplifier is proportional to sin(2\u03c0ft+\u03c6(t)) where fis the difference in frequency between a tone of the master laser  and the output of the primary slave laser . The phase term \u03c6(t) arises from the difference between the phases of the master laser tones and the primary slave laser output.","With the configuration of photodetector diodes ,  shown in , the primary slave laser  and the master laser  are locked in quadrature, that is, the signals from the lasers ,  have a relative phase of 90\u00b0 to each other. The two lasers may also be coupled with a nominally 0\u00b0 phase difference, by connecting together the anodes (or the cathodes) of the two photodetectors and connecting that point to the input of the transimpedance amplifier . The power supply voltages for the two photodetector diodes should be set to provide a reverse bias voltage over each of the diodes.","In a preferred implementation, a narrow-band optical filter  is located between the output of the master laser  and its corresponding input to the 3 dB coupler . The filter  is configured to pass only the tone that is used to optically injection lock the primary slave laser . In this configuration of the quadrature photoreceiver , \u03c6(t) represents the phase error between the primary slave laser  and the master laser tone to which it should be locked. Thus, the homodyne phase-lock loop  with the quadrature photoreceiver  counteracts the tendency of the primary slave laser  to become detuned. The linewidth of the primary slave laser  when it is in its free-running mode of operation indicates the tendency of the primary slave laser  to become detuned when injection-locked.","The use of a homodyne phase-lock loop together with optical injection locking of a single-line master laser has been described by R. Rames and by A. C. Bordonalli. However, embodiments of the present invention use a novel combination of a homodyne phase-lock loop with a multi-line master laser. Since it is desirable to use only one line of the master laser  for the phase locking, the homodyne phase-lock loop  of this invention is preferably band-limited. Thus, the loop filter  should have a bandwidth that is much lower than the tone spacing of the mode-locked laser , which can be on the order of 1 GHz. The loop filter , therefore, typically comprises a passive low-pass filter. Preferably, the primary slave laser  has a frequency-modulation response that remains uniform in both amplitude and phase to modulation frequencies beyond that of the desired bandwidth of the loop filter .","The primary slave laser  is locked both by optical injection as well as by electrical feedback (through the phase-lock loop). The optical injection provides that the primary slave laser  tracks slow changes in the frequency of the injected master laser  line. Slow changes of the slave laser frequency are also suppressed by the injection locking. The phase fluctuations (or noise) of the primary slave laser  become coherent with the phase fluctuations of the injected laser line for the smaller frequency offsets from the center frequency. The center frequency is the frequency that occurs in the absence of phase or frequency fluctuations. More rapid changes in the frequency of the injected master laser line are only partially tracked by a primary slave laser  locked to the master laser . Similarly, more rapid changes of the slave laser frequency are only partially suppressed. The phase-lock loop (i.e. the electrical feedback) is designed to compensate for these more rapid changes. As a consequence, the phase-lock loop preferably has a filter bandwidth greater than the line width of the master laser  and the primary slave laser . The effect of the phase-lock loop on the optical-injection locked primary slave laser  is to reduce its phase deviation from the master laser  for those frequency offsets that are within the filter bandwidth. For many sensor applications, such as radar, the range of frequency offsets that are of interest is below 1 MHz and is within the attainable bandwidth of the phase-lock loop.","The homodyne phase-lock loop controls the drive current or temperature of the primary slave laser  to ensure that the detuning of the primary slave laser  is set to zero. However, the phase noise of the heterodyne output is degraded because of the finite linewidths of both of the slave lasers , . The homodyne phase-lock loop subsystem  reduces the degradation due to the linewidth of the primary slave laser . The heterodyne phase-lock loop subsystem reduces the degradation due to the linewidth of the secondary slave laser .","The heterodyne phase-lock loop subsystem  comprises the two slave lasers , , the optical coupler  that combines their outputs, a monitor photodetector  that generates the heterodyne (typically a difference frequency) signal, a programmable frequency divider , an electronic phase detector  and a loop filter . The RF oscillator  provides a reference signal to the phase detector . Any difference between the frequency divided heterodyne signal and the reference signal produces an error signal that is used to adjust the secondary slave laser .","The selection of the frequency divider ratio is described next. For example, if the two slave lasers ,  are biased so that their optical-injection locking bands match immediately adjacent tones of the master laser , then the heterodyne output frequency is the same as the frequency of the RF-oscillator reference . If the tones of the slave laser ,  match the tones of the master laser  that are 2 tone spacings apart, then the frequency divide ratio should be 2. Similarly, if the slave laser tones match master-laser tones that are N tone spacings apart, then the frequency divide ratio should be N. The local-oscillator (LO) selector  selects both the divide ratio and the free running frequency of the secondary slave laser .","One possible implementation of the programmable frequency divider  is shown in FIG. . As shown in , the heterodyne output of the photodetector  is a current that is preferably coupled by an AC coupling means  into a transimpedance amplifier . The voltage output of the transimpedance amplifier  is directed into a frequency doubler circuit . The output of this circuit  is an electrical signal that has a frequency that is twice that of the heterodyne signal. Frequency doubler circuits are well-known in the art and may be realized in many ways. One such way comprises the combination of a rectifier and a high-pass filter. The doubled frequency signal that is output from the frequency doubler circuit  serves as the clock for a counter , which produces the desired frequency divided signal.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["607","621","623","625","607","607","607","623","607","623","601","233","233"]},"The phase indication signal should have the same frequency as the RF oscillator reference. Both the phase indication signal and the RF oscillator reference signal are fed to an RF phase detector  which may be implemented as an RF mixer. The output of the phase detector  has a spectral content near DC as wells as at harmonics of the phase indication signal frequency. However, only the information near DC is passed by the loop filter .","The same benefits discussed earlier of combining a homodyne phase-lock loop with an optical-injection locked slave laser also apply to combining a heterodyne phase-lock loop with an optical-injection locked slave laser. Since the heterodyne output is compared with the RF-oscillator reference , the degrading effects of the linewidths of the master laser  and the slave lasers ,  are diminished. Also, note that the primary laser  tracks the mode-locked laser tone as a result of the homodyne phase-lock loop subsystem . Two methods are employed to reduce the phase noise of the heterodyne output. The tone optically injected into the secondary slave laser  is separated (in frequency) from the tone optically injected into the primary slave laser  by an amount that is determined by the RF-oscillator reference that actively mode-locks the master laser . Furthermore, the frequency separation between the optical outputs of the primary and secondary slave lasers ,  is corrected by means of the heterodyne phase-lock loop subsystem , which has the same RF-oscillator as a reference. Thus, since the same RF oscillator  is used to both generate the heterodyne signal (through the mode-locked laser and the optical-injection locking process) and produce the phase-correction signal for the heterodyne phase-lock loop, the phase noise contributed by the mode-locked master laser  is suppressed to some extent.","The optical heterodyne output from the optical coupler  of the synthesizer  has tones at the sums and differences of the tones of the slave lasers , . When the combined output is converted by a photodetector into an electric signal, the frequencies of the electric signal typically are the difference frequency components (since the photodetector has a loss pass filter response). Where an embodiment of the present invention uses two slave lasers, the difference frequency of the two tones of the slave lasers can be considered a local oscillator (LO) frequency. Hence, the output from a photodetector  directly coupled to the output of the optical coupler  produces an electrical signal that may be an RF carrier signal or a LO signal.","Application of another RF signal to the output of the optical coupler  with an external modulator  provides that the applied RF signal can be frequency-converted to an intermediate frequency (IF). The modulated optical signal may then be converted to an electrical signal by a photodetector . A mathematical expression for this process is shown below, assuming that the modulator  has the transfer function of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer: \n\n\nwhere irepresents the photocurrent produced by a photodetector  detecting the modulated light signal, \u03c9represents the frequency of the RF signal to be frequency converted, and \u03c9represents the local oscillator frequency produced by the frequency synthesizer . Preferably, the frequency response of the external modulator  extends beyond \n\n\nto allow the RF signal to be modulated without any bandwidth limitations. Preferably, the frequency response of the photodetector  extends beyond \n\n\nto allow the optical signal (modulated or unmodulated) to be converted to an electrical signal without bandwidth limitations. Note that if the input electrical signal is to be upconverted in frequency, the frequency response of the photodetector  should be at least \n\n","Hence, embodiments of the present invention may provide generation of optical local oscillator signals that can be optically modulated by RF signals and then frequency converted via optoelectronic techniques into RF signals that have been shifted in frequency. Other embodiments of the present invention may maintain the modulated optical signal in its optical form for transmission via an optical fiber. Embodiments of the present invention may also be used to produce a strictly RF signal with low multiplied phase noise that may be used as an RF carrier or local oscillator reference.","As noted above, alternative embodiments of the present invention may comprise only a heterodyne phase-lock loop.  shows an embodiment of the present invention where the heterodyne phase-lock loop controls the secondary slave laser , but no homodyne phase-lock loop is used to control the primary slave laser . This embodiment of the present invention may exhibit slightly higher noise characteristics than the embodiment depicted in , but is less complex, due to the elimination of the homodyne phase-lock loop.","A synthesizer that can simultaneously generate several LO signals or carriers may be realized by having additional secondary slave lasers, and possibly also additional primary slave lasers. Each pair of primary and secondary slave lasers will generate a separate heterodyne output signal and can be controlled by a separate heterodyne phase-lock loop. Also each pair of primary and secondary slave lasers will be optical-injection locked to a pair of tones produced by the master, multi-line laser reference. In order to generate heterodyne outputs that are of different frequencies, these pairs of slave lasers would be optical-injection locked to master laser tones that have different spacings. What is important is the tone spacing rather than the particular tone of the master laser. The same tone from the master laser could be used to optical injection lock several slave lasers, which could be from different slave-laser pairs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["230","201","203","220","230","230","213","240","211","213","231","233","235","237","239","213","201","240","295","240","291","293","220","211"],"sub":["A,B,C ","A,B,C ","A,B,C ","A,B,C","A,B,C ","A,B,C","A,B,C","A,B,C","A,B,C","A,B,C","A,B,C","A,B,C ","A,B,C ","A B,C ","A,B,C ","A,B,C ","A,B,C "]},"Multiple pairs of primary and secondary slave lasers may also be used to generate multiple RF frequency outputs as shown in FIG. . The RF oscillator reference  controls the master laser  to produce an optical comb with multiple modes. The output of the master laser  is then coupled to each pair of primary slave lasers and secondary slave lasers . As previously discussed, heterodyne phase-lock loops are used to control the output of each secondary slave laser . Homodyne phase-lock loops may be used to control the output of each primary slave laser . Alternative embodiments of the frequency synthesizer using multiple pairs of primary and secondary slave lasers may not use homodyne phase-lock loops to control the primary slave lasers . Use of multiple pairs of primary and secondary slave lasers to produce multiple RF frequency outputs permits independent matching of the primary and secondary slave laser output powers. This power matching improves the efficiency of the heterodyning process.","From the foregoing description, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention has a number of advantages, some of which have been described herein, and others of which are inherent in the embodiments of the invention described herein. Also, it will be understood that modifications can be made to the frequency synthesizer described herein without departing from the teachings of subject matter described herein. As such, the invention is not to be limited to the described embodiments except as required by the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
