---
title: Solar distillation loop
abstract: A solar distillation loop apparatus includes a first pipe section disposed on a ground surface, the first pipe section including a substantially straight portion and elevated portions on each end of the substantially straight portion, an impure water inflow coupling at one end of the straight portion and an impure water outflow coupling at the other end of the straight portion; solar powered fans disposed in each of the elevated portions of the first pipe section; a second pipe section disposed under the ground surface beneath the first pipe section; and two substantially vertical pipe sections that connect respective ends of the second pipe section to respective ends of the first pipe section.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07108769&OS=07108769&RS=07108769
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Interior
number: 07108769
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031203
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefor.","The invention relates in general to the purification of water and in particular to the purification of water using solar energy.","At present, agricultural expansion into many semi-arid and arid regions is severely limited by the scarcity of good quality irrigation water and the cost of the energy necessary to provide irrigation to these areas. Generally, although water resources remain available to these regions, they are mostly unexploited due to two main factors: (1) unacceptable quality of the water for irrigation (e.g., water high in salts or toxins); and (2) the requirement of great conveyance energy (i.e., water transportation, pumping, and pressurizing energy) in order to approach economic usefulness. Due to increased competition for good quality water and higher conveyance costs, the total cost of irrigation is continually increasing in such areas. If this trend continues, not only will agricultural expansion be curtailed, but substantial reductions in irrigated agriculture may be necessary.","Another problem in these dry regions arises with regard to salt accumulation in agricultural basins. For many agricultural basins associated with irrigated areas, irrigation drainage water has become a severe environmental pollutant. This is primarily due to the leachates and tailwaters of the drainage which cause increased salinity of groundwater and surface water resources. Since water imports are limited to their present levels in most of these basins, there have been gradual increases in the proportion of impaired water resources to good quality water resources in these basins.","As a consequence of the situation described above, methods for improving irrigation management, water conservation, and saline water conversion have become increasingly active areas of water resources research. Irrigation management has been improved through more precise irrigation scheduling and increased use of drainage systems. In addition, water conservation techniques such as installation of drip (trickle) irrigation systems and the adoption of drought tolerant crops have helped to maintain the present level of irrigated agriculture in semi-arid and arid regions while leading to reductions in the amount of agricultural drainage. However, when the only water resources available are saline or otherwise impaired, irrigation management and water conservation methods become ineffective, necessitating alternatives such as the use of salt tolerant crops or saline water conversion processes. Although there has been some success with a limited number of salt tolerant crops, water conversion and purification techniques are not being used extensively because of the high costs involved. At present, there are ever increasing amounts of impaired water resources in arid and semi-arid regions that cannot be used for irrigation, and the problem of water distribution in these areas is becoming a very serious one.","In light of these trends, there exists a clear need for a low-energy inexpensive process for water purification and irrigation which is designed to help solve the complex problems associated with water scarcity, increasing water conveyance costs, and regional accumulation of salts. It would be desirable, therefore, to develop an apparatus and process which can cheaply and effectively purify saline or otherwise impaired water resources, and at the same time, distribute the purified water to row crops to allow them to grow in arid and semi-arid regions.","The present invention is a solar distillation loop apparatus and process. A solar distillation loop is a chemical process that occurs in a drainage pipe system designed to purify salt water, or other impaired water, and distribute the purified water below the surface of the ground at a shallow depth for the purposes of subsurface irrigation or ground-water recharge. Alternatively, a slight variation in the drainage pipe system design redirects the purified water to a storage tank for use as a potable drinking water source.","The invention utilizes sea water, drainage water, sewage effluent, or other impaired water and converts this solution into pure water for use as a source of subsurface irrigation, ground-water recharge or as a source of drinking water. The purification process is a low energy method of water purification, because the water purification process requires solar energy for separation of impurities from the water, as well as the redistribution of the purified water. Solar energy is used as a source of thermal energy to evaporate water from the impaired water solution. Solar energy is also used to generate a direct-current power source to drive fans within the solar distillation loop to distribute the pure water vapor to an appropriate location for condensation and utilization.","The process of solar distillation of impaired water, where water vapor is evaporated from an impaired water body and condensed elsewhere, is carried out within a solar distillation loop. Within a solar distillation loop, the process of solar distillation is greatly accelerated due to: 1) the use of solar-powered fans within the solar distillation loop, and 2) the natural vertical thermal gradient that exists near the ground surface. The circulation created by the solar fans continually reduces the water vapor pressure above the impaired water, which accelerates water evaporation from the impaired water. The natural thermal gradient accelerates the condensation of pure water for the purposes of either subsurface irrigation, ground-water recharge, or a source of potable water.","Embodiments of an apparatus according to the invention may be constructed with existing technology that is user friendly and appealing to farmers. Therefore, the inventive approach to water purification should be more easily accepted than the prior art.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.","The inventive process takes advantage of the natural thermal gradient at ground surface to purify water through solar distillation. Solar fans force saturated air that would otherwise remain on the surface down to cooler depths, resulting in accelerated evaporation at the surface and accelerated condensation of the water vapor at depth. The drier air that cycles to the surface rapidly evaporates water from the warm water at the surface, and the solar fans again force saturated air down to cooler depths. Thus, the solar fans create a water vapor deficit in the surface section of the loop, and the natural thermal gradient creates a water vapor excess in the buried section of the loop, which in combination greatly accelerate the distillation of purified water beyond the rates of the prior art.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["10","10","12","14","12","16","18","20","16","22","16","24","26","28","18","20","12"]},"A second pipe section  is disposed under the ground surface  beneath the first pipe section . Two substantially vertical pipe sections ,  connect respective ends of the second pipe section  to respective ends of the first pipe section . The first pipe section , second pipe section  and the two substantially vertical pipe sections ,  may be conventional drainage pipe, made of, for example, ABS plastic or PVC. Pipe sections , , ,  form a closed loop of pipe with first pipe section  residing on the soil surface  and second pipe section  buried below the ground surface . In the embodiment of , second pipe section  is perforated and buried at a depth of about 1 to about 3 meters below the ground surface  in an agricultural field or similar setting. As shown in , the lower portions of the two vertical pipe sections ,  may also be perforated.","Buried second pipe section  may be any length, but a practical length is at least 100 meters. Above-ground first pipe section  has substantially the same length as buried second pipe section . Buried second pipe section  is connected to first pipe section  by vertical pipe sections ,  that emerge at ground surface  on either end of the agricultural field or similar setting. Both ends of first pipe section  include elevated portions ,  each containing a solar powered fan , . Elevated portions ,  may be supported by attachment to posts , . Preferably, the distance between the bottom of elevated portions ,  and the ground surface  is about one pipe diameter. Posts ,  also support solar panels ,  that provide DC power to the solar powered fans , .","Solar powered fans ,  are oriented in the solar distillation loop  to force air in a circular fashion through the loop  during daylight hours. Fan  forces air along the first pipe section  and fan  forces air down vertical pipe section  into the buried second pipe section . In the straight portion  of the above-ground first pipe section , a shallow layer of impaired or impure water  flows into the straight portion  at one end via impure water inflow coupling . Impure water is removed from the other end of the straight portion  via impure water outflow coupling . In the manner of an irrigated field, the ground surface  has a slight slope from inflow coupling  to outflow coupling . Depending on the topography of the land, pumps may be used to supply the inflow water and\/or remove the outflow water.","During the day, the air space in the straight portion  of the first pipe section  rapidly reaches water-vapor saturation. The solar powered fans ,  quickly force this water vapor below ground into second pipe section . The saturated air is quickly cooled at depth in the buried second pipe section , causing water vapor to condense either in the second pipe section  or immediately outside it. Meanwhile, the impure water in the straight portion  is replenished and\/or removed as needed by the inflow and outflow couplings ,  connected to inflow and outflow pipes (not shown). The inflow and outflow pipes are either connected to additional parallel loops , or the inflow and outflow pipes are connected to inflow and outflow laterals in a similar fashion to irrigated agricultural fields.","Note that the diameter of the straight portion  and the second pipe section  need not be the same. The diameter of the straight portion  may be greater (for example) than the diameter of the second pipe section .  shows the straight portion  having a circular cross-section. The cross-section of the first pipe section , second pipe section  and vertical pipe sections ,  may be, for example, circular. The diameter of the pipe sections needs to be large enough to carry both liquid and gas without undue resistance to flow of either fluid and sufficiently large to allow for ground surface elevation variations. A minimum diameter is about four inches. The pipe cross-section may also have other shapes, such as elliptical.  shows the straight portion  having an elliptical cross-section. In the elliptical cross-section, the major axis is oriented parallel to the ground surface. The elliptical cross-section increases the surface area of water in the pipe, thereby increasing the evaporation rate per unit length. However, because the ground surface is nearly flat, the horizontal diameter (major axis) should not be more than twice the vertical diameter (minor axis).","The color of the above-ground first pipe section  is preferably black, to maximize heat absorption from the sun. Furthermore, the straight portion  of the above-ground first pipe section  does not necessarily need to be constructed of rigid pipe, but could be constructed of non-rigid tubing designed to inflate when the fans ,  are in operation.","Depending on need, one field might contain hundreds of loops  connected via inflow and outflow pipes and inflow and outflow laterals to convey water onto and away from the field. As darkness approaches the fans ,  automatically stop, and the ground surface  cools below the temperature at depth. During the night, the heat of condensation that has been absorbed in the soil\/sediments at depth is dissipated radially away from the underground second pipe section . At sunrise, the ground surface  begins to heat and the fans ,  automatically start cycling water vapor below ground to be condensed. The invention results in an extremely accelerated solar distillation process which creates a source of pure water and then distributes this water for the purposes of subsurface irrigation or ground-water recharge.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1"],"b":["50","10","50","52","54","56","52","58","52","58"]},"The advantages of the inventive solar distillation loop over solar distillation drip irrigation include less cost, greater durability, easier operation, higher user confidence, and the ability to generate drinking water. The solar fans ,  are self-regulating such that when increased solar inputs cause increased potential for evaporation in the first pipe section , this increased input also increases the rate of circulation due to solar-induced increases in the DC power input to the fans , . Additionally, because most of the solar distillation loop comprises drainage pipe commonly used in agricultural settings, end users should have a reasonable comfort level with the invention. Historically, introducing new concepts has been an issue with the farming and water purveyor communities.","While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 3A and 3B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
