---
title: Hydroplaning unmanned surface vehicle
abstract: An unmanned hydroplaning water surface vehicle having a gondola housing with external midway lift and control foils that allow the unmanned surface vehicle to provide lift and control in water at sufficient speed. A superstructure trimaran hull serves as a stable operation platform during low speed maneuvers or at rest. The superstructure hull encloses command and control systems capable of remote, semi-autonomous or fully autonomous control and navigation and vehicle attitude control. A plurality of mission specific payloads and sensors are positioned within the superstructure hull and gondola housing to allow for various types of missions. A strut connects the gondola housing and the superstructure hull above the waterline, as well as to provide for the passage therebetween of a plurality of transmission and control lines. The strut also mounts a rudder above propeller at the stern end of the gondola housing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=H0002173&OS=H0002173&RS=H0002173
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: H0002173
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030710
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.","The present invention relates to unmanned vehicles, and more particularly to unmanned surface vehicles (USV) designed for use in rough or calm bodies of water.","Unmanned air, ground and underwater vehicles have been developed that perform numerous tasks and have proven extremely useful. However, USVs have not been developed to the same extent.","Littoral areas of operation may be denied, inaccessible or too hazardous to operate in with manned ships. Properly designed USVs could make these areas accessible for operation. No multimission USV has been developed that can operate for extended periods of time, in different sea conditions with numerous types of payloads and sensors. The applicants have developed a novel USV system that has the built in flexibility to perform multiple missions for extended periods of time such as mine countermeasure, anti-submarine warfare, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance.","An unmanned hydroplaning water surface vehicle having a gondola housing with external lift foils located midway between bow and stern ends and control foils that allow the unmanned surface vehicle (USV) to plane in water at sufficient speed. A superstructure trimaran hull serves as a stable operation platform during low speed maneuvers or at rest. The superstructure hull includes command and control systems that make the USV capable of remote, semi-autonomous or fully autonomous operations. A plurality of mission specific payloads and sensors are dispersed in the superstructure and gondola to allow for various types of missions. A strut connects the gondola housing and the superstructure hull as sections of the vehicle, as well as provide for the passage of a plurality of transmission and control lines between such sections. A rudder is mounted on the strut at the stern end of the gondola housing above a propeller associated with its propulsion system.","For a better understanding of the present invention, together with other and further objects thereof, reference is made to the following description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, and its scope will be pointed out in the appended claims.","Referring now to the example of , the hydroplaning unmanned surface vehicle (USV)  includes three main sections; a single gondola housing , a strut , and a superstructure hull . The gondola housing  is connected to the superstructure hull  by the strut . The USV  is designed to be stable in rough seas when the craft is stationary or moving at low speeds. Once the USV  begins moving at high speeds, mid foils  located midway between bow and stern of the gondola housing  and aft foils  lift the gondola housing  of the USV  up to a waterline  reducing waterplane area.","The gondola housing  preferably includes a ducted propeller  and a pair of the mid lift foils  and a pair of the aft lift foils . A propulsion motor , diagrammed in , drives the ducted propeller  to provide thrust to the USV . Many different types of payloads may be carried in a bay with retractable doors (not shown) in the gondola housing . For example, the USV  may be outfitted as shown in , with a winch  and a towed minehunting sonar system . The placement of the towed system  is designed to be inline with a thrust vector  along the centerline of the USV . In another embodiment the gondola housing  may include a sonar and sonar dome  as shown in FIG. . The lifting foils  and  attached to the gondola housing  provide roll, pitch, sinkage control. Sinkage is defined as the distance  between a baseline  and the waterline . The mid foils , located amidship, can be independently controlled to provide the necessary roll and sinkage control. The aft foils  move jointly to control the pitch and sinkage of the USV . Once the USV  reaches approximately 15 knots, the foils  and  provide enough lift so that the gondola housing  will plane to the waterline  lifting the superstructure hull  out of the water.","As shown in , the vertical strut  mounts a rudder  for both low and high speed control. To reduce drag caused by the submerged strut  and the gondola housing , it is preferable to provide the strut  with a fairing surface  as illustrated in , to provide a smooth transition for the interface between the strut  and the gondola housing . The fairing surface  establishes filleting transition boundaries between the strut  and the gondola housing . A number of passages for transmission and control lines extend through the strut  to permit electrical power, control signals, data signals and mechanical linkages to be sent between the gondola housing  and the superstructure hull .","As illustrated in the example of , the superstructure hull  is a trimaran configuration that will provide excellent stability in rough seas. The starboard outrigger side of the hull  houses a fuel tank , deployable payloads bay  a port outrigger housed fuel tank  as diagrammed in , and deployable payloads bay  as diagrammed in FIG. . The starboard payload bay  and the port payload bay  may be configured to accommodate numerous types of equipment such as torpedoes, sonobuoys, mine countermeasure devices, semi-autonomous undersea vehicles of fully autonomous undersea vehicles. Such configurable payload bays  and  make the USV  very flexible and capable of performing numerous types of missions.","As shown in the example of , the center portion of the superstructure hull  includes a generator  as a source of power for propulsion and various types of electronic equipment. By operating on the surface of the water, the USV  is able to utilize a conventional type of power source , such as diesel or gas turbine engines. This allows for up to several weeks of operational life.","The superstructure hull  houses most of the command, control and communication systems for the USV . The superstructure hull  includes cabinets  and  for electronic equipment and various types of sensors (including intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance or ISR sensors). A cabinet  for communications as shown in the example of  is also provided. In the preferred embodiment the satellite communications cabinet  would be housed under a radome. The USV  would preferably be able to communicate to any combination of surface vessels, aircraft, or satellites as well as undersea assets. The electronic equipment in the cabinet  includes, command and control modules to permit autonomous, semi-autonomous or remote operation of the USV . The command and control techniques are similar to those employed in unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Additionally, the electronic equipment would interface with the sensors in the cabinet  to analyze possible threats and to take the appropriate action. The superstructure hull  preferably is of low profile to reduce signatures and to increase intact hydrostatic stability.","In operation the USV  would be assigned to perform one of its primary missions such as anti-submarine warfare (ASW), mine countermeasure (MCM) or intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR). Insertion into areas where there is threat of nuclear, biological or chemical agents is even possible. The USV  would be able to remain at a location for up to several weeks without resupply as it utilizes conventional power sources instead of mission limiting power supplies such as batteries.","The USV  could perform either alone or as part of a squadron of the USVs  to accomplish the missions identified. As part of a squadron the USVs  would be able to rapidly deploy at speeds up to 35 knots and patrol in a grid over a large area. Then the USV  could deploy a plurality of smaller unmanned undersea vehicles (USVs) from the payload bays  and  to provide extensive coverage within the grid. The USV  would then serve as a tender and communications hub for the USVs to collate data and transmit information to a central location for processing the data from the squadron. Additionally, it would be possible to have the USVs determine various courses of action such as mine or submarine neutralization independently or to wait for instructions. By operating in this manner the USV  could clear an area of threats prior to manned ships transiting the area.","While there have been described what are believed to be the preferred embodiments of the present invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications that fall within the true scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
