---
title: High performance immobilized liquid membrane for carbon dioxide separations
abstract: An immobilized liquid membrane has a substrate. A plurality of capsules is disposed on the substrate. Each of the capsules is permeable to a first gas of a mixture of gasses comprising the first gas and a second gas. Each of the capsules is substantially impermeable to the second gas. A liquid is disposed in each of the capsules that is permeable to the first gas and substantially impermeable to the second gas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06958085&OS=06958085&RS=06958085
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 06958085
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030917
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","CONCLUSION"],"p":["This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60\/458,874 filed Mar. 26, 2003 and titled \u201cHIGH PERFORMANCE IMMOBILIZED LIQUID MEMBRANE FOR CARBON DIOXIDE SEPARATIONS\u201d, which is commonly assinged and incorporated by reference herein.","The invention described herein was made by an employee of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The present invention relates generally to gas separation and in particular the present invention relates to immobilized liquid membranes for separating gasses.","There is a current need to remove carbon dioxide from spacecraft habitats, space suits, such as EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Units), during Extra Vehicular Activities (EVA), as well as to remove carbon dioxide from combustion processes. For EVA applications, carbon dioxide is captured in absorbent materials and later transported back to earth for disposal. Likewise, similar methods are followed when the carbon dioxide is captured within the spacecraft.","Carbon dioxide created during combustion processes is believed to be a contributor to global warming and could be greatly reduced if a significant amount of the carbon dioxide could be captured within a power plant and not released to the surrounding atmosphere. In fact, the captured carbon dioxide may actually be put to useful applications. For example, carbon dioxide is currently pumped into oil wells to provide for secondary recovery of crude oil. In addition, carbon dioxide is being considered for microalgae cultivation, which could be co-fired with coal. Results of investigations indicate several positive results. Carbon dioxide is also being considered for production of methane from deep unreachable coal seams as well as to enhance biomass production.","Conventional immobilized liquids have been known to be volatile and would tend to evaporate when confronted by long-term exposure to the vacuum of space. For that reason, immobilized liquids generally cannot be utilized as an interface between an EMU and space. Other applications, such as removal of carbon dioxide from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants would volatilize the immobilized liquids.","For the reasons stated above, and for other reasons stated below which will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the present specification, there is a need in the art for alternatives for carbon dioxide removal.","The above-mentioned problems with carbon dioxide removal and other problems are addressed by the present invention and will be understood by reading and studying the following specification.","One embodiment of the present invention provides an immobilized liquid membrane that has a substrate. A plurality of capsules is disposed on the substrate. Each of the capsules is permeable to a first gas of a mixture of gasses comprising the first gas and a second gas. Each of the capsules is substantially impermeable to the second gas. A liquid is disposed in each of the capsules that is permeable to the first gas and substantially impermeable to the second gas.","Another embodiment of the present invention provides a method for manufacturing an immobilized liquid membrane. The method includes encapsulating a liquid in each of a plurality of capsules. Each of the capsules and the liquid are permeable to a first gas of a mixture of gasses comprising the first gas and a second gas. Each of the capsules and the liquid are substantially impermeable to the second gas. Disposing the liquid-containing capsules on a porous substrate and permeating the porous substrate and the liquid-containing capsules with a monomer are included in the method. The method further includes polymerizing the monomer to chemically bond the capsules to each other and the porous substrate.","Further embodiments of the invention include methods and apparatus of varying scope.","In the following detailed description of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown, by way of illustration, specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. In the drawings, like numerals describe substantially similar components throughout the several views. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural, logical, and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.","Embodiments of the present invention provide immobilized liquid membranes capable of separating a first gas, such as carbon dioxide, from a second gas, such as at least one of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon monoxide, in mixture therewith. The immobilized liquid membranes may be used in spacecraft, extra vehicular activities, and combustion processes that generate hot flue gases.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","110","200","210","220","200","220","210","220","200","210","220","200","210","210","210","210"]},"For one embodiment, substrate  is of nylon, cellulose, polypropylene, etc. For another embodiment, liquid  is an ionic liquid, such as 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexaflurophosphate, 1-hexyl-3-methylimidazolium hexaflurophosphate, 1-butyl-4-methypyridinum hexaflurophosphate, etc.","At block , the liquid-covered substrate  is subjected to a vacuum to remove any air trapped in the pores of substrate . For one embodiment, this involves placing container  into a chamber , such as bell jar, as shown in , and sucking air from the chamber using a vacuum pump, for example. At block , the vacuum is removed to cause liquid  to flow into any pores that previously contained air. For one embodiment, blocks  and  are repeated a number of times to completely remove the air, which is indicated by the absence of air bubbles flowing from the liquid-covered substrate  through liquid . After substantially all of the air is removed from substrate , substrate  is removed from container  and chamber  and any excess ionic liquid  is removed from a surface of substrate .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["300","200","210","210","250","200","210","210","250"]},"In operation, membrane  selectively separates a gas, such as carbon dioxide, from other gasses, such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen, oxygen, etc. For example, for one embodiment, carbon dioxide in mixture with at least one of carbon monoxide, nitrogen, and oxygen is located on a first side of membrane . An environment on a second side of membrane  is maintained so that the pressure of any carbon dioxide on the second side is less than the partial pressure of the carbon dioxide within the mixture on the first side. When the mixture on the first side contacts membrane , the carbon dioxide passes through the pores  containing liquid  because liquid  is permeable to carbon dioxide, whereas carbon monoxide, nitrogen, and\/or oxygen do not substantially pass through membrane  because liquid  is substantially impermeable to carbon monoxide, nitrogen, and\/or oxygen.","For one embodiment, membrane  has a selectivity defined as the ratio of the permeability of membrane  to a substance, e.g., carbon dioxide, to be passed by membrane  to the permeability of membrane  to a substance to be substantially blocked by membrane , e.g., oxygen, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, etc. For example, for separating carbon dioxide from oxygen, an exemplary permeability of membrane  to oxygen may be 10 and an exemplary permeability to carbon dioxide may be 50000, giving a selectivity of 5000. For another embodiment, membrane  has a selectivity of 1000 for carbon dioxide over carbon monoxide, nitrogen, or oxygen.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 5"],"b":["400","400","405","410","420","420","405","410","410","425","425","425","410","425","425"]},"Capsule  includes a shell (or wall)  that surrounds liquid . For one embodiment, capsule  is a microcapsule having a diameter D of about 1 (one) micron. For other embodiments, shell  has a thickness t of about 0.1 micron or less. For another embodiment, capsule  is spherical, as shown, elliptical, etc. Shell  and porous substrate  can be of any material that is selectively permeable to a gas that is to be separated from one or more other gasses. Specifically, the material of shell  is permeable to the gas that is to be separated from the one or more other gasses, but substantially impermeable to the other gasses. For separating carbon dioxide from at least one of oxygen, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen, shell  and porous substrate  can be polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polystyrene, etc. Another suitable material for porous substrate  is silicone rubber.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["600","400","610","425","410","410","420","405","620","630","420","410","420","430","410","420","430","410","410","410","410","420"]},"At block , the monomer is polymerized to chemically bond capsules  to each other and to substrate . For one embodiment, the monomer-treated substrate  and capsules  are irradiated, e.g., by exposing them to ultraviolet light, x-rays, etc., are heated, or the like to initiate the polymerization.","In operation, membrane  selectively separates a gas, such as carbon dioxide, from other gasses, such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen, oxygen, etc. For example, for one embodiment, carbon dioxide in mixture with at least one of carbon monoxide, nitrogen, and oxygen is located on a first side of membrane . An environment on a second side of membrane  is maintained so that the pressure of any carbon dioxide on the second side is less than the partial pressure of the carbon dioxide within the mixture on the first side. When the mixture on the first side contacts film , the carbon dioxide passes through capsules  because the shell  of each of capsules  and the liquid  contained within the shell  are permeable to carbon dioxide, whereas carbon monoxide, nitrogen, and\/or oxygen do not substantially pass through capsules  because the shell  of each of capsules  and the liquid  contained within the shell  are substantially impermeable to carbon monoxide, nitrogen, and\/or oxygen. Subsequently, the carbon dioxide passes through substrate .","Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein, it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Many adaptations of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly, this application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the invention. It is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
