---
title: System for editing and aligning captured events and data to a common time base to create customer service engagement multimedia document
abstract: When a hardware or software problem reoccurs, a customer is rarely able to remember and repeat the process that was performed by a customer service representative to correct the problem the first time. By capturing desktop events and/or one or more other available data streams during the first customer service engagement, and making a document containing that data available to the customer, the customer can solve a reoccurrence of the problem without having to contact the customer service center. The captured data is integrated into a single multimedia document, which has an indexing capability, highlights critical information, and includes annotations and/or comments. The integrated multimedia document can be distributed to the customer by the customer service representative during an engagement, over a customer accessible network site visited by the customer, or in a CD-ROM provided with the product.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07287223&OS=07287223&RS=07287223
owner: Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
number: 07287223
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20030606
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of Invention","This invention is directed to systems and methods for capturing interactions between customer service representatives and customers.","2. Description of Related Art","Companies that market technically complex products, such as computer hardware and\/or software products typically provide technical support to customers through a customer service engagement. A customer service engagement is initiated when a customer contacts a customer service representative at a customer service center via the telephone or the Internet. The customer service representative can have the customer configure his PC to provide the customer service representative with visibility into the customer's system using existing software tools, such as Sun Microsystems's SharedShell tool, or even to provide the customer service representative with control of the customer's PC using existing software, such as Symantec's pcAnywhere\u00ae application. The customer service representative then resolves the customer's problem by giving the customer directions or by directly reconfiguring the customer's system.","A customer rarely absorbs or retains the knowledge of the techniques and\/or actions used by a customer service representative during a customer service engagement. Thus, the customer is often unable to apply the techniques and\/or actions should the original problem reoccur. The customer does not always understand the reasons for critical actions the customer service representative made. Additionally, or alternatively, the customer service representative made these techniques and\/or actions too quickly, making it difficult for the customer to learn them, or even recognize them. Also, the greater the time span between the original customer service engagement and the reoccurrence of the problem, the greater the likelihood that the customer will forget key aspects of the techniques and\/or actions forming the solution. As a consequence, subsequent customer service engagements with the same customer must then be supported by the customer service agent.","In various exemplary embodiments according to this invention, to avoid a costly second customer service engagement with the same customer, a record of the process of the original customer service engagement is made available to the customer. This record can also be made available to other customers who later experience the same problem. By having access to the entire process used in the initial customer service engagement, both types of customers have a greater chance of solving the problem without requiring a costly customer service engagement.","This invention provides systems and methods that automatically capture a customer's computer events and any available audio or video data generated during a customer service engagement.","This invention separately provides systems and methods that process the data captured from one or more data sources during a customer service engagement, and that generate media that correlates the separate data sources, removes, masks or renders unintelligible proprietary or irrelevant data, adds helpful comments and instructions, and\/or provides the ability to search the media for relevant sections.","This invention separately provides systems and methods that distribute a captured and edited service engagement multimedia document to one or more customers.","This invention separately provides systems and methods for searching through and viewing portions of a distributed service engagement multimedia document that are useful in solving the customer's problem.","In various exemplary embodiments, the customer initiates a customer service engagement by calling the customer service center or visiting its website. The customer service representative then configures for capture all available data sources, including, but not limited to, computer event data, which can include customer network environment data, customer site video data, customer site audio data, and customer service representative\u2014customer telephone audio data. The captured data files are aligned to a time base and linked to the customer service engagement so that the events in the separate data files can be correlated during an editing process.","After capture, the customer service engagement multimedia data is edited by the customer service center to produce a single product that combines at least some of the captured data from the customer service engagement. Customer sensitive data portions and\/or irrelevant data portions of the customer service engagement multimedia document can be removed, masked, blacked out or otherwise rendered unintelligible. Explanations and annotations can be added to highlight augment and\/or comment on critical steps and relationships that occur during the customer service engagement. Indexing keywords and error messages can be linked to specific places in the customer service engagement multimedia document to assist the user in finding the information the customer needs to solve the problem the customer is experiencing, without requiring a subsequent, or even a first, customer service engagement.","When editing is complete, the edited customer service engagement multimedia document can be stored on a storage media, which can be distributed to customers. There are several distribution options. In one distribution method, the customer service engagement multimedia document may be posted to a web site, where customers will be able to search for and download any particular customer service engagement multimedia document that the customer needs. In another distribution method, the customer service representative can send a specific customer service engagement multimedia document to customers who have contacted the customer service center for help with a problem dealt with in that customer service engagement. The customer service engagement multimedia document can also be distributed on a CD-ROM or a DVD-ROM, either separately or with the technically complex product at the point of sale.","When using the distributed customer service engagement multimedia document, the customer may view the entire file or select specific segments that are of interest. Sample frames of each segment may be displayed to the customer to allow the customer to select one or more segments of interest. To find the segments of interest, the customer may use keywords or error messages to identify those segments. Once the one or more segments of interest are found, each segment can be viewed, paused, rewound, fast-forwarded, and\/or played back, similarly to standard VCR operation.","These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or are apparent from, the following detailed description of various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention.","The systems and methods according to this invention capture the events of a customer service engagement and modify the captured data into a form useable by the customer at a future time, to help that customer resolve a reoccurrence of the problem, and\/or to help a different customer when that other customer experiences that problem, without assistance from the customer service center.  is a flowchart outlining at a very high level one exemplary embodiment of a method for capturing, editing, distributing and viewing a customer service engagement according to this invention.","As shown in , operation of the method begins in step S, and continues to step S, where one or more of computer event data, customer video and\/or audio data, and\/or telephone conversation data, and\/or any other available and appropriate data stream generated during the customer service engagement are captured at the customer service center. Then, in step S, the captured customer service engagement data is edited at the customer service center to produce a customer service engagement multimedia product or document that is ready for distribution. Next, in step S, the edited customer service engagement multimedia document is distributed to one or more customers. Then, in step S, the customer service engagement multimedia document is viewed by one or more customers. Operation then continues to step S, where operation of the method ends.","Application-sharing and\/or operating-system-sharing applications can be used make the customer's local computing environment visible to the customer service representative. If the customer has a video camera, a microphone and\/or a computer configured with video\/audio capture software, data generated by those devices can be made available to the customer service representative to provide additional information about the customer's local physical environment. Making the customer's local environment visible to the customer service representative assists the customer service representative in understanding how the customer is using the hardware and\/or software product. This information can allow the customer service representative to recognize the customer's problem, to recognize when the customer is having problems understanding the customer's hardware and\/or software systems and\/or to determine if the customer is having problems understanding and\/or implementing the customer service representative's instructions.","It should also be appreciated that the customer service representative is not limited to obtaining or being provided with access to the events or activities that occur on the customer's local computing environment, such as, for example, a particular machine that the customer is working on. Rather, in various exemplary embodiments, the customer service representative obtains or is provided with access to information about the larger network environment that the customer's particular machine is incorporated into. It should be appreciated that, in many cases, the problem to be solved arises from the nature of the larger network environment. Thus, the use and implications of that more specialized information about the customer's network context can be the critical data that the customer service representative needs to solve the problem.","Such problems are especially likely to generate customer service interactions, as these specialized conditions are usually not covered explicitly in the standard documentation or help systems. Consequently, recording this wider network context information can make captured customer service engagements even more valuable to the customer when dealing with subsequent encounters with a similar problem. Recording such wider network information can also simplify, and thus make less expensive, subsequent customer service engagements with the customer service representatives, because the subsequent customer service representative will then be able to see what specialized interactions occurred in the customer's wider network environment, and point to the right specialization for the customer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["100","110","120","130","140","120","130","100","120","120"]},"If the customer also, or instead, has the ability to generate video data  and\/or audio data , available applications, such as Camtasia or ScreenCapture, can be used to send the digital video and audio data streams over the network  to the customer service center . The customer's local video data  and\/or audio data  generated during the customer service engagement can then also be captured at the service center platform .","The customer may use a telephone  to contact a customer service center telephone , either to make initial contact with the customer service center  or to provide an audio link after contact is made over the network . The customer service center  can then capture and log this separate audio data stream of the customer service engagement.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":["FIGS. 3 and 4","FIG. 3"],"b":["200","210","220","240","220","120","230"]},"In step S, a determination is made whether customer-site video and\/or audio data streams are available. If customer-site video and\/or audio data streams are available, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S. In step S, the customer-site video and\/or audio data streams that are available are configured by the customer, at the customer's discretion, for transmission over the network to the customer service center. Next, in step S, a determination is made whether a telephone connection is available between the customer site and the customer service center. If a telephone connection is available between the customer site and the customer service center, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps directly to step S. In step S, the customer service representative configures the telephone audio for captures if the customer service representative has the customer's permission to do so.","In step S, the remote events that the customer service representative has access to, the remote video and\/or audio data streams from the customer site which customer service representative has access to, and\/or the captured telephone audio data are captured into an appropriate number of data files. Of course, it should be appreciated that if there are other available data streams, additional steps can be added between steps S and S so that those additional data streams can be configured. Likewise, it should be appreciated that step S encompasses capturing any such available data streams. Operation then continues to step S.","In step S, the captured remote event files are associated with a time base and linked to the customer service engagement. Then, in step S, the captured remote video and audio data stream events are associated with the time base and linked to the customer service engagement. Next, in step S, the captured telephone audio events are associated with the time base and linked to the customer service engagement. Operation then continues to step S, where operation returns to step S.","It should be appreciated that time synchronization of the captured remote video and audio files can be performed manually, semi-manually or fully automatically. It should also be appreciated that time synchronization of the captured telephone audio file can be performed manually, semi-manually or fully automatically. It should further be appreciated that associating the captured remote event files to the time base can be done manually, semi-manually or fully automatically.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"b":["200","200","210","210","211","211"]},"It should be appreciated that, in various other exemplary embodiments of the graphical user interface , the segments  can be indexed by subject keyword. Applications such as MediaDEPO can be used to search audio tracks of the multimedia document for keyword usage, and establish links to that segment of the multimedia document. It should be appreciated that, in various other exemplary embodiments of the graphical user interface , the segments  can be indexed by error messages, which, for example, a computer hardware and\/or software product may generate when a problem occurs. Independent of the type of indexing used, the index portion  also includes selectable icons under the index or menu tree that can be used to select which portion or segment of the captured multimedia document to view.","The graphical user interface  also includes one or more captured media display portions . The captured media display portion  shown in  displays the screen events that occurred during the captured customer service engagement. The screen events include customer data  displayed during the customer service engagement. It should be appreciated that, in various exemplary embodiments, customer sensitive data can be removed, masked, blacked out or otherwise made illegible or unintelligible during an editing process used to create the displayed multimedia document. One or more annotations  can also be added during the editing process to explain and\/or highlight critical details on the screen events that are being played back, and\/or to point to generalizations of specific situations. Command and menu portions  can also be displayed within the graphical user interface .","It should be appreciated that the one or more captured media display portions  can also be used to display the customer site video data, or any other known or later-developed type of data captured during the customer service engagement. The graphical user interface  also includes a comments portion  that contains any comments  added by the customer and\/or by the customer service representative during and\/or after the customer service engagement. It should be appreciated that, in various other exemplary embodiments, hyperlinks to network locations providing other problem solving help can be inserted into any of the data shown in the various display portions of the graphical user interface .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"b":["300","310","320","330","320","310","310"]},"The accessible web site  then retrieves the desired customer service engagement multimedia document from the service engagement library  over a network . The accessible web site  then forwards the customer service engagement multimedia document to the customer  over the network . It should be appreciated that, instead of providing the service engagement multimedia document on the accessible web site , search and\/or address location information may be provided on the accessible web site , and the service engagement multimedia document may be supplied on request after it has been identified based on the search and\/or address location information.","The customer  can also contact the customer service representative  to receive help with the customer's hardware or software problem. The customer service representative  can provide that help by selecting a useful customer service engagement multimedia document and retrieving the selected customer service engagement multimedia document from the service engagement library  over the network . The customer service representative  can then forward the retrieved customer service engagement multimedia document to the customer  over the network . It should be appreciated that service engagement library , the accessible web site  and the customer service representative  can be collocated at a single service center or can be hosted at separate facilities.","Another distribution method includes distributing a CD-ROM  containing one or more edited customer service engagement multimedia documents. The CD-ROM  can be provided, for example, to the customer  when the hardware and\/or software product is purchased. When the customer  needs help with the purchased hardware and\/or software, the customer inserts the CD-ROM , which has an index graphical user interface similar to that shown in , to help the customer  find the customer service engagement multimedia document that the customer  needs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["500","505","510","520"]},"In step S, the customer or service representative selects subject keywords or problem classification from an index or menu tree. It should be appreciated that, if the customer or service representative knows the subject keywords or problem classification the customer or service representative wishes to use, the customer or service representative can enter directly such as subject keywords or problem classification. Then, in step S, the customer service engagement media application identifies zero, one or more customer service engagement multimedia documents associated with the selected keywords or problem classification. Operation then jumps to step S. In contrast, in step S, the customer or service representative enters the error message that occurred when the customer encountered the problem with the hardware and\/or software product. Next, in step S, the customer service engagement media application identifies zero, one or more customer service engagement multimedia documents associated with the entered error message. Operation then continues to step S.","In step S, the customer or service representative views a video summary (also referred to as manga frames) from the first or next identified customer service engagement multimedia document. Then, in step S, a determination is made whether the viewed customer service engagement multimedia document is a customer service engagement multimedia document that is, or could be, useful in solving the problem with the technically complex product. If the viewed customer service engagement multimedia document is not a useful customer service engagement multimedia document, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S.","In step S, a determination is made whether there are any more identified customer service engagement multimedia documents to be viewed. If so, operation jumps to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S. In contrast, in step S, the desired customer service engagement multimedia document is downloaded to the customer. Then, in step S, a determination is made whether the customer is done or if the customer wants to download any other of the identified customer service engagement multimedia documents. If the customer wants to download any other of the identified customer service engagement multimedia documents, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S. In step S, a next identified customer service engagement multimedia document is selected. Operation then returns to step S.","In step S, a determination is made whether the customer wants to re-search the available customer service engagement multimedia documents. If so, operation returns to step S. Otherwise, operation continues to step S, operation returns to step S.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["600","610","660","620"]},"In step S, a determination is made whether the customer wants to use subject keywords or problem classification to search for a specific segment of the customer service engagement multimedia document. If the customer wants to use subject keywords or problem classification to search for a specific segment of the customer service engagement multimedia document, operation continues to step S. Otherwise, operation jumps to step S. In step S, the customer or service representative selects subject keywords or problem classification from an index or a menu tree. Then, in step S, the customer service engagement media application identifies zero, one or more segments of the customer service engagement multimedia document associated with the selected keywords or problem classification.","In contrast, in step S, the customer views manga frames of each segment to identify zero, one or more segments of interest. The manga frames can be viewed by dragging a cursor along a timeline, or skipping forward or backward to the next detected manga frame. Then, in step S, the customer displays and views the identified segment(s) of the customer service engagement multimedia document. The segment can be paused, forwarded or backed up, or replayed, similarly to typical VCR functionality. Next, in step S, operation returns to step S. It should be appreciated that the customer can repeat the method described in  any number of times taking any path when repeating it.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["400","400","405","410","420","430","440","450","460","470","480","490","415","500","600","700","800","400","505","605","705","805"]},"In general, the service representative's platform  shown in  can be any known or later developed device that is capable of sending and receiving data over the Internet, an intranet, any other known or later-developed network, and which can be an input and output device for the service engagement capture and editing system . In general, the network  shown in  can be any known or later-developed communication system, such as the Internet, an intranet or any other known or later-developed system or structure that is capable of routing data and\/or messages from one system to another.","In general, the telephone  shown in  can be any known or later-developed device or software application that is capable of providing an audio connection with another party such as, for example, interfacing with the public telephone system. In general, the CD burner  shown in  can be any known or later-developed device that is capable of writing digital data to a CD or any other known or future developed removable data storage media.","The service representative's platform  can be integrated with the service engagement capture and editing system , such as in a general-purpose computer connected directly to the Internet or other appropriate network. In addition, the service engagement capture and editing system  may be integrated with devices providing additional functions in addition to service representative's platform , in a larger system such as a firewall server.","The service representative's platform  may be any device and\/or software application, such as a general purpose computer, laptop computer, or a special purpose computer, microprocessor or the like, or any other known or later-developed device that can send and\/or receive data on the Internet or other appropriate network and input\/output the data to\/from the service engagement capture and editing system .","Each of the links , ,  and  connecting the service representative's platform , the telephone , the network  and the CD burner to the service engagement capture and editing system  can be a connection device, such as a direct cable connection, a modem, a local area network, a wide area network, an intranet, the Internet, any other distributed processing network, or any other known or later-developed connection device. It should be appreciated that each of the links , ,  and  may include wired and\/or wireless portions. In general, each of the links , ,  and  can include any known or later-developed connection system or structure usable to connect the respective devices to the service engagement capture and editing system . It should be understood that the links , ,  and  do not need to be of the same type.","As shown in , the memory  can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable, volatile, or non-volatile memory or non-alterable, or fixed memory. The alterable memory, whether volatile or non-volatile can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic RAM, a floppy disk and disk drive, a writable or rewritable optical disk and disk drive, a hard drive, flash memory or the like. Similarly, the non-alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, and gaps an optical ROM disk, such as a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM disk and disk drive or the like.","It should also be understood that each of the circuits, routines, applications or managers shown in  can be implemented as portions of a suitably programmed general-purpose computer. Alternatively, each of the circuits, routines, applications or managers shown in  can be implemented as physically distinct hardware circuits within an ASIC, using a digital signal processor (DSP), using a FPGA, a PDL, a PLA and\/or a PAL, or using discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements. The particular form of the circuits, routines, applications or managers shown in  will take is a design choice and will be obvious and predictable to those skilled in the art. It should be appreciated that the circuits, routines, applications or managers shown in  do not need to be of the same design.","When operating the service engagement capture and editing system , customer platform events are received from the network  over the link , or directly from the service representative's platform  over the link . The input\/output interface  inputs the customer platform events, and under the control of the controller , forwards the customer platform events to the desktop data capture circuit, routine or application . If so configured by the service representative, the desktop data capture circuit, routine or application  then captures and formats the customer platform events information into a first data file and aligns the customer platform event data to a time base. The desktop data capture circuit, routine or application  then stores the first data file in the captured desktop media portion  of the memory  or forwards it directly to media integrating circuit, routine or application .","If available, customer video and\/or audio data is received from the network  over the link , or directly from the service representative's platform  over the link , as shown in . The input\/output interface  inputs the customer video and\/or audio data, and under the control of the controller , forwards the customer video and\/or audio data to the video and audio data capture circuit, routine or application . If so configured by the service representative, the video and audio data capture circuit, routine or application  then captures and formats the video and audio data into a second data file and aligns the customer video and\/or audio data to the time base. The video and audio capture data circuit, routine or application  then stores the second data file in the captured video and audio media portion  of the memory  or forwards it directly to media integrating circuit, routine or application .","If available, telephone audio data is received from the telephone  over the link  or directly from the service representative's platform  over the link , as shown in . The input\/output interface  inputs the telephone audio data, and under the control of the controller , forwards the telephone audio data to the telephone data capture circuit, routine or application . If configured by the service representative, the telephone data capture circuit, routine or application  then captures and formats the telephone audio data into a third data file and aligns the telephone audio data to the time base. The telephone capture circuit, routine or application  then stores the third data file in the captured telephone media portion  of the memory  or forwards it directly to the media integrating circuit, routine or application ","It should be appreciated that, in various exemplary embodiments, the telephone audio data may travel over the public switched telephone network. However, it should be appreciated that, in various other exemplary embodiments, the telephone audio data may be replaced by, or implemented by, the customer video and\/or audio data. For example, the audio interaction between the customer and the customer service representative can be implemented using a network connection between the customer's platform and the customer service representative's platform, such as Voice over IP (VoIP), NetMeeting or any other known or later-developed technique.","The media integrating circuit, routine or application  then retrieves the first-third data files, as well as any other available data stream files, from the captured desktop media portion , the captured audio and video media portion  and\/or the captured telephone media portion  of the memory , and\/or receives them directly under control of the controller . The media integrating circuit, routine or application  then combines the data files into one integrated service engagement multimedia file or document. The media integrating circuit, routine or application , under the control of the controller , then stores the integrated service engagement multimedia document in the integrated service engagement media portion  of the memory , or sends the integrated service engagement multimedia document directly to the media editing circuit, routine or application .","The media editing circuit, routine or application , under control of the controller , retrieves the integrated service engagement multimedia document from the integrated service engagement media portion  of the memory , or receives it directly. The media editing circuit, routine or application  then displays the integrated service engagement multimedia document to the service representative's platform  over the link  under direction of the controller . Editing directives are then received from the service representative's platform  over the link , and forwarded to the media editing circuit, routine or application  under direction of the controller.","The editing directives are used by the media editing circuit, routine or application  to remove, mask, black out or otherwise render unintelligible any proprietary and\/or extraneous material from the integrated service engagement multimedia document that the customer may not want to make public, and\/or to add comments and\/or annotations to the integrated service engagement multimedia document. It should be appreciated that the annotations can point to generalizations of specific situations or otherwise provide context information, solution hints and suggestions, and the like. The media editing circuit, routine or application , under the control of the controller , then stores the integrated service engagement multimedia document in the integrated service engagement media portion  of the memory , or sends the integrated service engagement multimedia document to the web site upload circuit, routine or application  and\/or the CD burning circuit, routine or application .","The web site upload circuit, routine or application , under control of the controller , then retrieves integrated service engagement multimedia document from the integrated service engagement media portion  of the memory , or receives it directly. The web site upload circuit, routine or application , under control of the controller , uploads one or more service engagement multimedia documents, or its search and address information to one or more customer accessible web servers by sending them to the network , over the link  under the direction of the controller .","In addition to, or instead of, uploading the service engagement multimedia document to the web servers, the CD burning circuit, routine or application , under control of the controller , retrieves the integrated service engagement multimedia document from the integrated service engagement media portion  of the memory , or receives it directly. The CD burning circuit, routine or application  then formats the customer service engagement multimedia document for writing to a CD and forwards the customer service engagement multimedia document, under the control of the controller , to the CD burner  over the link .","While this invention has been described in conjunction with the exemplary embodiments outlined above, various alternatives, modifications, variations, improvements, and\/or substantial equivalents, whether known or that are or may be presently unforeseen, may become apparent to those having at least ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly, the exemplary embodiments of the invention, as set forth above, are intended to be illustrative, not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore, the claims as filed and as they may be amended are intended to embrace all known or later-developed alternatives, modifications variations, improvements, and\/or substantial equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Various exemplary embodiments of this invention will be described in detail, with reference to the following figures, wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 3 and 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
