---
title: User interface for diagnostic instrument
abstract: A user interface for a computing device is provided. The user interface includes a plurality of display elements. A display element includes an active region, a graphical representation, and a textual description. The active region is sized for enabling human finger tip selection of the display element on a touch sensitive display screen. A display module receives coordinate information from the display screen and determines whether the coordinate information corresponds to the active region. When a user touches the active region, an instrument interface module sends a command to a diagnostic instrument. Further features, such as language localization of the textual description, are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08319735&OS=08319735&RS=08319735
owner: Autologic, L.L.C.
number: 08319735
owner_city: Sussex
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031001
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present disclosure relates generally to a user interface for a computing device, and more particularly, to a user interface for a handheld computing device configured to interface with a diagnostic instrument.","Handheld computing devices, such as personal digital assistants and pocket PCs, provide a convenient platform for communicating with diagnostic instrumentation. The portability and flexibility of a handheld computing device enables a technician to use a diagnostic instrument quickly and easily. For example, in an automotive service facility, a handheld computing device can be easily coupled to a vehicle's on-board diagnostic system for testing or problem diagnosis.","Conventionally, handheld computing devices include touch sensitive display screens that are operated with a stylus. The stylus typically has a polished or smooth plastic end that is designed to contact the display screen surface. A typical software user interface requires a user to tap the stylus on the appropriate screen element to navigate through various menu bar options or icon selections. Further, the stylus may be needed to enter data, such as customer information, into the handheld computing device.","One problem with using a stylus in a vehicle service facility or other harsh environment is that the stylus can be easily misplaced. Because the icons, menu bar, or other screen elements in a conventional user interface require a relatively small contact area to function properly, operating the device without a stylus can be challenging. In the interest of being able to use the device without a stylus, a technician could substitute another handy shop item such as a sharp screw or screwdriver for the blunt tip stylus. Of course, the plastic screen of the handheld computing device is not designed to be contacted with sharp instruments and can become damaged accordingly.","Further, service facility technicians commonly wear hand protection that can make using the stylus cumbersome. A handheld computing device typically has a small groove in which the stylus is stored. Even if the stylus is not lost and is properly stored in the device, a technician wearing work gloves may find it difficult to retrieve and to use the stylus. Additionally, the technician may find it difficult to replace the stylus into the small groove\u2014a condition which worsens the problem of misplacing the stylus.","What is needed is a user interface for a handheld computing device that can provide functionality without the continuous use of a stylus or similar pointing device. What is further needed is a system and method for operating a diagnostic instrument using the user interface.","In one aspect, a user interface is displayed on a touch sensitive display screen. The user interface enables an operator or technician to invoke functions of a diagnostic instrument. The user interface includes a first navigational menu and a second navigational menu. The navigational menus include one or more display elements. A display element has a touch sensitive active region for enabling human finger tip selection of the display element. The second navigational menu can include a selection group related to a test suite of the diagnostic instrument.","In another aspect, a method for operating a diagnostic instrument includes providing a user interface on a display screen. The user interface includes one or more display elements. The display elements include active regions that correspond in size to a human finger tip contact area. This enables a technician to operate the diagnostic instrument without the stylus typically associated with a handheld computing device. For example, a command can be sent to the diagnostic instrument when the technician touches a display element with his or her gloved finger.","In a further aspect, a computing device includes a user interface module, a display module, and an instrument interface module. The user interface module provides a user interface on a display screen that includes one or more display elements. The display elements include active regions that correspond in size to a human finger tip contact area. The display module determines whether the user has touched an active region of the display screen in order to select a display element. The instrument interface module sends data to the diagnostic instrument when the user selects a displayed function. For example, if the technician taps his or her finger tip on the \u201cTwo-speed Idle\u201d display element, the instrument interface module sends a command to the instrument to begin the two-speed idle test sequence.","Additional aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become readily apparent to those skilled in this art from the following detailed description, wherein only exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is shown and described, simply by way of illustration of the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present disclosure. As will be realized, the present disclosure is capable of other and different embodiments, and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects, all without departing from the disclosure. Accordingly, the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive.","The present disclosure is now described more fully with reference to the accompanying figures, in which several embodiments are shown. The embodiments described herein may include or be utilized with any appropriate engine having an appropriate voltage source, such as a battery, an alternator and the like, providing any appropriate voltage, such as about 12 Volts, about 42 Volts and the like. The embodiments described herein may be used with any desired system or engine. Those systems or engines may comprises items utilizing fossil fuels, such as gasoline, natural gas, propane and the like, electricity, such as that generated by battery, magneto, solar cell and the like, wind and hybrids or combinations thereof. Those systems or engines may be incorporated into another systems, such as an automobile, a truck, a boat or ship, a motorcycle, a generator, an airplane and the like.","One skilled in the art will recognize that methods, apparatus, systems, data structures, and computer readable media implement the features, functionalities, or modes of usage described herein. For instance, an apparatus embodiment can perform the corresponding steps or acts of a method embodiment.","A. System Overview",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["105","120","105","120","110","105","120","110","110","105","120","110","105","120"]},"The computing device  includes a display screen . In one embodiment, the display screen  is a conventional liquid crystal display (LCD) with touch screen capabilities. That is, the display screen  is pressure sensitive and provides coordinate information about contact on the screen display. Coordination information can include planar positional information (e.g., X-axis and Y-axis coordinates). Depending on the particular characteristics of the display screen , the coordinate information can also include depth information (e.g., a Z-axis coordinate) that can be used to determine the pressure that is being applied to the display screen . The pressure can be used to define further the contact area or point. One skilled in the art will appreciate that many suitable technologies can be used for the display screen , for example, a light emitting diode (LED), organic LED, cathode ray tube (CRT), or a plasma display panel (PDP). Additionally, many suitable technologies can be used for the touch screen portion of the display screen , for example, capacitive, resistive, acoustic, or infrared.","In one embodiment, the computing device  is a conventional handheld computer, such as a Compaq Ipaq (which is commercially available from Hewlett-Packard, Palo Alto, Calif.) or a Palm Zire (which is commercially available from Palm, Inc., Milpitas, Calif.). Further features and functionalities of the computing device  are described below and with reference to .","In an embodiment, the instrument  is a diagnostic instrument such as those used in the maintenance, service, or repair of automobiles, trucks, engines, vessels, motorcycles, generators, aircraft and the like. One skilled in the art will appreciate, however, that the instrument  need not be distinct from the equipment and can represent, for example, onboard or integrated diagnostic, performance, or testing functionality.","In the illustrated embodiment, the instrument  includes a test lead . The test lead  provides input signals to the instrument . For example, in an exhaust gas analyzer, the test lead  provides a sample of the exhaust gases to the instrument  for analysis. The test lead  can also provide electrical signals to the instrument . The test lead  may include a plurality of electrical or mechanical connections that can be coupled to various components of the device under test (e.g., an automobile). One skilled in the art will appreciate that the organization or structure of the test lead  need not be exclusively mechanical or electrical. That is, in an embodiment, the test lead  can include both electrical and mechanical portions. Returning the example above in an exhaust gas analyzer, the test lead  may include a mechanical portion for sampling exhaust gases as well as an electrical portion for connection to the automobile's oxygen sensor or onboard diagnostic interface. Although the test lead  is singularly illustrated in , a plurality of test leads may be used concurrently or separately with the instrument .","B. Computing Device",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["105","107","205","210","215","220","222","230","232","240"]},"The connection network  operatively couples each of the display screen , the processor , the memory , the input\/output device controller , the storage device controller , and the communications interface . The connection network  can be an electrical bus, switch fabric, or other suitable interconnection system.","The processor  is a conventional microprocessor. In one embodiment, the computing device  is portable and powered by a battery. In this instance, the processor  may be designed for low power operation in order to provide satisfactory runtime before requiring recharging or replacement of the battery. In a typical service facility, satisfactory runtime is approximately 8 hours or the duration of a technician's shift.","The processor  executes instructions or program code modules from the memory . The operation of the computing device  is programmable and configured by the program code modules. Such instructions may be read into memory  from another computer readable medium, such as a device coupled to the storage device controller . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the memory  causes the processor  to perform the method or functions described herein. In alternative embodiments, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement aspects of the disclosure. Thus, embodiments of the disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software. The memory  can be, for example, one or more random access memory (RAM) devices, flash RAM, or electronically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM) devices. The memory  may also be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor .","The term \u201ccomputer readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as those controlled by the storage device controller . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as the memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires or communication paths that comprise the connection network . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Common forms of computer readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a programmable ROM (PROM), an electrically PROM (EPROM), a flash EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a data processing system can read.","Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote data processing system, such as a server. The remote data processing system can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a communication link. The communications interface  can receive the data from the communication link and place the data on the connection network . The connection network  can then carry the data to the processor  for execution.","The input\/output device controller  provides an interface to the display screen  and the input device . The display screen  can include associated hardware, software, or other devices that are needed to generate a screen display. The display screen  may also include a controller or other device for detecting contact with the display screen  and for providing coordinate information related to the area or point of contact. The coordinate information can be sent to the input\/output device controller  for processing or forwarding to the processor . For example, when a user's finger tip touches the display screen , coordinate information is sent to the processor  that indicates the location at which the user's finger contacted the surface of the display screen .","The illustrated embodiment also includes an input device  operatively coupled to the input\/output device controller . The input device  can be, for example, an external or integrated keyboard. In an automotive service environment, for example, it may be convenient for a technician to enter customer or vehicle information using the input device . Of course, customer or vehicle information can also be transmitted to the computing device  by the instrument  or another device such as a server (not illustrated). In one embodiment, the communications interface  can receive such information and can send the information to the processor  via the connection network .","The storage device controller  can be used to interface the processor  to various memory or storage devices. In the illustrated embodiment, a database  is shown for storing customer information, test results, and the like. As one skilled in the art will appreciate, the database  can be implemented on any suitable storage medium, such as magnetic, optical, or electrical storage. Additionally, the database  may store and retrieve information that is used by one or more of the functional modules described below and with reference to .","The communications interface  provides bi-directional data communication coupling for the computing device . In one embodiment, the communications interface  provides an electrical, radio frequency, or optical input and converts signals received on the input to a format suitable for transmission on the connection network . In one embodiment, the communication link  is coupled to the computing device  via the communications interface . In an example where the communications link  represents a USB cable, the communications interface  receives data from the instrument  in the USB protocol and places the data onto the connection network  for use by the processor . The communications interface  also sends data to the instrument  using the appropriate transmission protocol (e.g., IEEE 802.11b wireless protocol). One skilled in the art will note that the communications interface  can include data buffers, filters, or other logic needed to perform an interfacing function for the computing device .","1. Program Code Modules",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["310","320","330","340","350","360","205","310","320","330","340","350","360"]},"The modules , , , , ,  include program instructions that can be executed on, for example, the processor  to implement the features or functions of the present disclosure. The modules , , , , ,  are typically stored in a memory, such as the memory . As described above, the program instructions can be distributed on a computer readable medium or storage volume. The computer readable storage volume can be available via a public network, a private network, or the Internet. Program instructions can be in any appropriate form, such as source code, object code, or scripting code. One skilled in the art will recognize that arrangement of the modules , , , , ,  represents one example of how the features or functionality of the present disclosure can be implemented.","The user interface module  includes display elements that can be presented on the display screen . The user interface module  assembles the display elements into navigational menus. A navigational menu is a list of user-selectable options. In one embodiment, the navigational menus include display elements that are related to a particular test suite of the instrument . For example, a flexible gas analyzer may have a navigational menu that includes display elements related to an \u201cautomatic tests\u201d suite. One advantage of arranging the navigational menus by test suite is that it simplifies the operation of the instrument  for the technician, which results in more efficient use of the instrument .","The display module  receives coordinate information from the display screen  and communicates with the user interface module  about the screen location indicated by the coordinate information. That is, the display module  can determine whether a human user of the computing device  has touched, contacted, or otherwise applied pressure to a region of the display screen . The display module , in conjunction with the user interface module , can determine whether the coordinate information indicates that the user intends to invoke or to select a display element.","The instrument interface module  includes commands, protocol descriptions, data types, or other information used to send information to or receive information from the instrument . Of course, the instrument interface module  can include information about multiple instruments. The instrument interface module  can operate in conjunction with the display module  to invoke functions of the instrument . For example, the display module  can indicate to the instrument module  that a technician has selected (e.g., by touching corresponding portion of the display screen ) a display element for a \u201cTwo-speed Idle\u201d exhaust gas test. The instrument interface module  then sends (via the communications interface ) the proper commands to a gas analyzer instrument to invoke the selected test.","The database module  includes functionality for storing and for retrieving customer information, test results, data received from the instrument , and the like. When performing a test, for example, the instrument  may provide a raw data stream of the measurements which the database module  records. Accordingly, the database module  can provide measurement data to the processor  for analysis.","The language module  provides localization features for the user interface. That is, the language module  is used to display text on the display screen  in the language that is appropriate for the country in which the computing device  is being used. In one embodiment, the language module  includes a library, database, or file with the text segments encoded in a single language. In another embodiment, the language module  includes text segments encoded in a plurality of languages. Although encoding the text segments in multiple languages increases the amount of storage space consumed, a benefit is that the language desired for the display screen  can be easily selected by the user.","The operating system module  represents a conventional operating system for a handheld or embedded device, such as Microsoft Windows CE (which is commercially available from Microsoft Corp., Redmond, Wash.). The operating system module  provides an application programming interface (API) through which the modules , , , ,  or other application programs interact with the computing device . For example, the user interface module  calls a function of the operating system module  in order to display an element on the display screen .","2. User Interface",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["107","410","415","420","430"]},"In one embodiment, the active region  represents the area of the display screen  that a user can contact in order to invoke or to select a display element \u201cA\u201d-\u201cF.\u201d More specifically, active region A is the active region for display element \u201cA.\u201d When a user's finger tip contacts the active region A, the computing device  invokes the functionality associated with display element \u201cA,\u201d such as displaying a second navigational menu or sending data to the instrument .","The graphical representation  is an icon, bitmap image, or vector image. Typically the graphical representation  is displayed in color; however, a gray scale or black-and-white display screen  can also be used. The graphical representation  can be stored in the database , for example, and retrieved by the user interface module .","The textual description  typically includes a short description that corresponds with the graphical representation . For example, a display element for a \u201cMeters\u201d function includes a gauge icon accompanied by a description that reads \u201cMeters.\u201d Although it is expected that users will become familiar with the graphical representations , the textual description  can provide additional guidance to understanding the graphical representations . In one embodiment, the textual description  is not displayed with each display element \u201cA\u201d-\u201cF.\u201d This can provide additional screen area for graphical representations  if necessary.","In one embodiment, the display screen  is touch sensitive across essentially the whole display screen  area. Therefore, the active regions A-F are not limited to particular locations on the display screen  and can be placed in many suitable configurations. The active regions A-F correspond with the screen locations where the user interface module  places the display elements \u201cA\u201d-\u201cF.\u201d The active region  advantageously includes more screen area than the corresponding graphical representation  and textual description  in order to have some spatial flexibility in the user contact area. For example, a technician may be wearing hand protection while operating the computing device . The technician's finger tip may thus contact the area just outside of the graphical representation B when he or she intends to invoke or to select display element \u201cB.\u201d Therefore, the active regions A-F should be sized and positioned so as to enable discrete selection of each of the display elements \u201cA\u201d-\u201cF.\u201d","As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, embodiments of the disclosure include active regions  of various sizes and shapes. Typically, the size of a human finger tip requires an approximately circular active region  of at least \u215c inch in diameter. A gloved human finger tip may require an approximately circular active region  of at least \u00bd inch in diameter. The active region  can also be polygonal (e.g., rectangular) having a predetermined area or be proportional to the size of the display screen . More specifically, the active region  for a given display element may be at least 1\/10 that of the display screen  area.","The instrument identity banner  can include, for example, details about the type and status of the instrument . Status information may include the state of consumable supplies within the instrument . Status information may further include the progress of a particular test. In an embodiment where the instrument  is a vehicle's onboard diagnostics, the instrument identity banner  may include the vehicle's identification number, information about the vehicle's capabilities, and the like.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["505","505","120","107"]},"In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, the second navigational menu also includes two additional display elements: a \u201cback\u201d display element  and a \u201chome\u201d display element . Selecting the \u201cback\u201d display element  returns to the previously displayed screen. Selecting the \u201chome\u201d display element  returns to the main navigational menu. In one embodiment, the display elements of the selection group  change responsive to the particular display element selected or invoked on a first navigational menu. That is, the composition of options presented on the second navigational menu depends upon the user's display element selection on a first navigational menu. However, the presentation of the \u201cback\u201d display element  and the \u201chome\u201d display element  may be independent of the user's selection on the first navigational menu.","In one embodiment, the selection group  includes fewer than ten display elements to permit discrete touch sensitive selection of each of the ten display elements. Of course, the number of discretely operable display elements depends, for example, on the size of the display screen .","C. Operating a Diagnostic Instrument",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":["605","610","107"]},"The method then determines  whether a finger tip has contacted an active region for one of the display elements. If no contact is detected, then the method returns to step . Otherwise, the method proceeds to receive  coordinate information. The coordinate information describes the location on the display screen  at which the contact occurred.","The method determines  whether the coordinate information corresponds to an active region. If the method finds  an active region at the location described by the coordinate information, the corresponding function is activated  or performed. After the function is activated , the method returns  to the calling process.","For example, if the display element is navigational, another navigational menu may be displayed in step . Alternatively, if the display element is part of an instrument  test suite, a command is sent to the instrument  to begin the test. If no corresponding active region is found , the method returns to step .","Having described embodiments of user interface for diagnostic instrument (which are intended to be illustrative and not limiting), it is noted that modifications and variations can be made by persons skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments disclosed that are within the scope and spirit of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and equivalents."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings illustrate several embodiments and, together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the present disclosure.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
