---
title: Method of determining network penetration
abstract: A method of determining network penetration (which may be carried on a computer readable medium) and an apparatus for performing the method are disclosed. The method includes the computer-implemented step of simulating a packet traveling in a network based on topology data and on security policy data, and providing output related to results of the step of simulating.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07971244&OS=07971244&RS=07971244
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 07971244
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031119
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT","1.0 GENERAL OVERVIEW","2.0 STRUCTURAL AND FUNCTIONAL OVERVIEW","3.0 DETERMINING NETWORK PENETRATION","3.1 A Network","3.2 Network Management System for Viewing Penetration","3.3 Input Fields","3.4 GUI Output Penetration Information","3.5 Network Device","3.6 Penetration Algorithm","4.0 Implementation Mechanisms\u2014Hardware Overview","5.0 Extensions and Alternatives"],"p":["The present invention generally relates to network systems. The invention relates more specifically to network security.","The approaches described in this section could be pursued, but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore, unless otherwise indicated herein, the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.","Network security refers to limiting access to a portion of a network to those that are entitled to have access. Computer networks have grown from a collection of linked computers to a platform for conducting business. Consequently, there is a need for securing a network from unauthorized users or hackers. Security is a pre-requisite for most, if not all computer networks. Corporate networks are configured in accordance with a security policy that changes rapidly to meet new business requirements. Changes to security policy typically require a reconfiguration of various devices in the network.","One past approach to providing network security involves the use of Access Control Lists (ACLs), which list the users or types of users that are entitled to access an associated portion of the network. ACLs are used for packet filtering on routers, and ACLs help implement the overall security policy. Most network security policies are an aggregation of the configuration of ACLs. A network security policy could be constructed by configuring ACLs on various interfaces of routers forming the network.","However, ACL based network security has many disadvantages. As a result of the dynamic nature of the network requirements, ACLs on routers often need to be reconfigured to suit new needs. Whether ACLs are used for allowing a new business partner to access certain parts of the network, adding a remote location to the network, or ensuring hackers are misled to Jail systems to track\/log their activities, typically ACLs present on different routers in different parts of a corporate network are required to be reconfigured. A network administrator needs to have a good understanding of ACLs, their requirements, and the network to reconfigure the network elements related to security.","The security policies of the network, although very comprehensive and understandable on paper, become complicated and difficult to implement when they take the form of ACLs that are being updated or modified frequently and spread across the devices of the network. The ACLs complicate the network security administration and hence create a very error-prone platform for security administration. Changes to security policy may require reconfiguration of Access Control Entries (ACEs) present in ACLs spread across many routers. A misconfiguration could result in many problems such as a compromised network (which could be hard to detect) and data-outages.","Based on the foregoing, the inventors hereof have recognized a need for aids for configuring ACLs.","A method and apparatus for determining network penetration is described. In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.","Embodiments are described herein according to the following outline:\n\n","The needs identified in the foregoing Background, and other needs and objects that will become apparent in the following description, are achieved in the present invention, which comprises, in one aspect, a method for determining penetration into a network. Certain embodiments provide features that can be used independently of one another or with any combination of the other features. Although many features are motivated by the problems explained above, the embodiments need not address any or all of the problems discussed above.","A method of determining network penetration, a computer readable medium that may carry instructions for performing the method, and an apparatus for performing the method are disclosed. In one embodiment, the method includes the computer-implemented steps of representing a travel of a packet in a network based on topology data and on security policy data, and providing output that may specify a penetration of the packet in the network that is related to results of the step of representing.","Embodiments are disclosed that provide methods to aid network administrators in analyzing an ACL configuration across devices and hence analyze the overall behavior of the network based on user-specified packet parameters. Topology data and ACL data is correlated across devices to determine the penetration or reachability of a packet entering the network from a particular interface. Using the ACLs across devices that constitute the network and correlating them with the topology information that specifies device neighbors, the level of penetration of a packet-flow can be determined. A packet-flow can be categorized by its source network address, destination address, protocol, and entry port (or a range of sources or entry ports) and a destination port. Optionally, a source port (a designation of the type of interface to use, such as HTTP or FTP) may also be specified. The packet-flow pattern can be characterized by the particular interfaces on particular routers that the packets enter and exit. In other words, given a source IP address or a range of source IP addresses, and an entry point of the first hop router of that address, the extent of possible penetration of a packet into a network can be determined, based on the network topology and the ACL configurations on the devices. The correlated topology and ACL data can also be used to reveal which network resources are reachable via a given IP address, and thereby gives a picture of the potential loop-holes in the network security.","The correlated topology and ACL data may be used to provide a graphical or other representation of the network. In this specification, the words \u201crepresent,\u201d \u201crepresenting,\u201d and \u201crepresentation\u201d are intended to be generic to simulate, simulating and simulation, respectively, which is generic in a computer model of the network (e.g., as determined by the ACL and topology data). The representation of the network may include a graphical or other representation of the ACL configurations by indicating along which network connections packets are allowed to travel from one network device to another network device. Using the representation of the ACL configurations, an administrator can determine the parts of the network that can be reached based on the entry point. A representation of the ACL configurations can help network administrators make a security analysis, troubleshoot a data-outage issue, and predict the level of network penetration that a user is capable of from a given entry port.","The correlated ACL and topology data may also be used to represent (e.g., simulate) the dynamic nature of the ACLs. In an embodiment, before performing the penetration testing, the user may specify the current state of the network. For example, the user may specify that host A has established a connection with a remote host B, which has added a dynamic entry in an ACL. Based on the current state, dynamic ACLs are updated and then used for penetration testing.","A graphical representation of the correlated ACL and topology data may be provided. A User Interface (UI) for displaying a graphical or other representation of the topology, the ACL configurations, and\/or the static router configuration can help network administrators analyze how the various devices are configured.","The manner by which the penetration is determined is as follows, according to one embodiment. First, a packet flow is defined in terms of a source network address, such as a source IP address and source port. The flow may be further defined in terms of a destination IP address, destination port, and protocol. An entry point into the network for the packet-flow is specified, such as the IP address of a first-hop router, and a port or interface at which the specified packet arrives. In other words, a user or a program may specify a flow in terms of at least a source IP address and entry port, and optionally specify a 5-tuple including source network address, destination address, protocol, an entry port (or a range of entry ports), and a destination port. Optionally the source port may also be specified. A router and interface of that router at which the flow first arrives may also need to be specified to specify the flow. In one embodiment, the entry point is specified as an IP address for a first-hop router at which the flow first arrives, and a port or interface of the router at which the flow arrives. Optionally, a destination port may also be specified. The source network address and entry point may be specified by a user entering values in an appropriate UT. Alternatively, a management application or other first process may create a request that includes the source network address and entry point, and provide the request to a second process that implements the penetration analysis method described herein.","Next, the specified packet flow is checked against the inbound ACL of the specified network device interface. Then, if the ingress is permitted, the outbound ACLs are checked on each of the outbound interfaces of the router to determine the possible outbound interfaces on which the egress of a packet of the flow would be permitted. For each of the outbound interfaces of this network device for which egress is permitted, a neighbor device is determined. Then the above checks are performed recursively on each of the adjacent devices that is connected to the first device through the then-current inbound interface, and for all interfaces on the adjacent devices for which egress is permitted as indicated by the ACLs on such adjacent devices. The neighbor network device, to which a particular interface of the current network device is connected, is obtained from the topology information based on, for example, the network management system. The network devices reached via the recursive check represent all possible paths of the packet with the specified packet information. Optionally, a description of the network devices that were reached, and the possible paths taken by the specified packet, are presented to the user or returned to a calling process.","Alternatively, rather than specifying information corresponding to a single packet, a range of packets or flows can be specified as any combination of a range or set of source-addresses, destination-addresses, source ports, and\/or destination ports. For example, the user could specify a range of packets using wild-card masks. The above algorithm could then be repeated for each packet and the combined results presented to the user.","Alternatively, ACLs can be examined to determine whether the ACLs permit or deny, on an ingress or egress interface, part or all of the range of packets the user specifies. After each hop to another network device, ACLs applicable only to the subset of the packets that are permitted need to be processed to determine how much further and to where the packets penetrate.","The above algorithm can be modified to use the information that is present in the static routing tables of each network device. Thus, in an alternative embodiment, a step of the algorithm looks up the static routes (if there are any at the current network device) to determine on which interface a packet would be sent, and then check the ACLs of just that interface. In an embodiment, if the packet does not match a static route, the algorithm presumes that the packet is capable of exiting through any interface. Consequently, all connected interfaces are checked to determine where else the packet may travel (if anywhere). In an embodiment other packet parameters as well may be processed, such as Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) flags, which are set to determine where the packet is allowed to travel.","Information defining potential network penetration, and the possible paths that a packet flow or range of packets can take, may be used as baseline data with which the security of the network can be analyzed, a particular security setup can be validated, the consequences of the presence and\/or the absence of a particular security policy can be tested, or the ACLs that triggered data outage issues can be evaluated, for example. In an embodiment, to aid in configuring the ACLs, the correlated topology and ACL data may be used for verifying and\/or re-verifying the security of the network against every newly conceived vulnerability with the same base of ACLs. In an embodiment, to aid in configuring the ACLs the correlated topology and ACL data may be used to check the correctness of an ACL configuration when making ACL configuration changes on devices. Management applications or network administrators may use the baseline data for such purposes. The methods described in this specification may be used in addition to or instead of actually sending a packet through a network and detecting which network devices the packet visits before reaching its destination.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","102","104","106","108","110","106","112","114","116","118","110","120","122","100","100","100"]},"Network  is a network that includes features that facilitate validating the security policy. Users  and  could be connected to their respective networks WAN  and LAN  by a personal computer, laptop, palm pilot, terminal, or any other network appliance. WAN  could be the Internet and\/or any other wide area network. LAN  and LAN  could be any local configuration of computers, such as that of a company or an organization. Bridge  connects LAN  to LAN . Gateway  determines what messages are able to enter LAN . Network devices A, B, C, D, and E could be routers, switches, or servers, for example, and although they may have other functions they also function to route packets through the network through LAN .","Network management system  manages LAN . Additionally, network management system  includes features that facilitate validating the security policy reflected in the configurations of network devices A, B, C, D, and E. Specifically network management system  is capable of correlating network topology and ACL data to determine allowable paths through LAN  that a packet can take. An example of network management system  is discussed in conjunction with , below. Gateway  determines what packets or messages are able to enter into local area network .","When user  sends messages to user , packets carrying the message travel through WAN , gateway , and one or more of network devices A-E to arrive user . Different packets may travel along different routes that traverse different ones of network devices A-E. Network devices A-E, A and B include ACLs for limiting access of users to those portions they are entitled to access. An example of a network device is discussed in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","202","204","206","208","210","208","212","214","200","220","200","200"]},"Network management system  is an example of network management system . Topology database  includes topology of LAN  including, for example, information about which routers, servers, and other computers are connected to one another. ACL database  includes information listing the location of ACLs that are placed throughout LAN  and may also include the contents of those ACLs.","Penetration module  is used to determine the penetration of a packet flow. Penetration module provides a correlation of ACL data and network topology. In an embodiment, given information identifying a packet or packet flow, an entry point or range of entry points to network , and a destination or range of destinations, penetration module  creates a graphical or other representation of the possible paths that a packet may take (the representation may be referred to as a \u201cmapping\u201d or a \u201cmap,\u201d and the possible paths that a packet may take may be referred to as the \u201cpossible travel\u201d of a packet). Penetration module  may also use other packet parameters or network data in mapping the possible paths of a packet.","In an embodiment, the mapping is formed by starting from a specified first network device, and then investigating the ACLs associated with that network device, and following all paths allowed by the ACLs to the next network device along each path, based on comparing the ACLs to information defining a packet, a packet flow, or range of packets. Then the process is repeated recursively for each network device for which it is determined that a packet can reach. Mapping the possible paths may be used in addition to or instead of actually sending packets through network  and detecting which network devices the packet visits before reaching its destination. Method , discussed below in conjunction with , is an example of a mapping process (a process of creating the map or representing a travel of a packet), which may be implemented by penetration module .","Penetration GUI  is used by a network manager to interface with penetration module . Using penetration GUI , a user can input ACL data, topology information and packet data in order to view the penetration and correlation information computed by penetration module . Other management module  contains one or more modules for performing other network management functions. In an embodiment, penetration module  and\/or any of the other components of network management system  may be located in a module that is separate from network management system  and other management module .","In penetration GUI , input fields  may include a variety of packet parameters, topology information and ACL information. Input fields  are discussed further in conjunction with , below. Output penetration information  may include penetration information and correlation information corresponding to the parameter values in input field . Output penetration information  is discussed further in conjunction with .","In addition to penetration GUI , or as an alternative to penetration GUI , network management system  may comprise a programmatic interface  that enables a network management application, module, or external application to submit requests to and receive results from penetration module . For example, programmatic interface  may comprise an application programming interface (API) to penetration module  that enables an application to submit a request for a penetration analysis to the penetration module, in which the request specifies a packet flow and an entry point interface, for example. The API may also define result messages that are passed from the penetration module  back to the requesting application. For example, the result messages may provide a list of network devices that the specified packet can reach, identified by device name, network address, IP address, and\/or other unique identifier.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0052"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["212","302","304","304","306","310","308","310","312","314","316","318","320","312","312"]},"Entry point  is for entering the entry point, such as by specifying the address of a first hop router. There may be multiple entry points  including a separate set of entries for each group of packets. Each entry point  may be capable of accepting multiple entries and\/or wild card entries to facilitate describing groups of packets having different entry points .","Topology information  can be used for entering topology information and may also display topology information of the current network. ACL information  may be used to describe current ACL information. ACL information  may be the name of a file or a list of files containing the ACL information or containing pointers to where the ACL information can be found. Alternatively, ACL information  may display to the user all of or any portion of the actual ACL information. ACL information  may also be usable for entering ACL information of a new or proposed network.","Packet parameters  can be used for entering the parameters of packets of the packet flow of interest for which the penetration will be determined. Source address  is the address of the device that is the source of the packet. Source port  is a designation of the type of interface to use, such as HTTP or FTP. Destination address  is the address to which the packet is being sent. Destination port  could be the port through which the packet leaves LAN . Protocol  lists any protocols that are associated with the packet. TCP flags  lists any TCP flags associated with the packet. In an embodiment, entry point  may be included within packet parameters . There may be multiple packet parameters  including a separate packet parameters  for each packet and\/or for each group of packets. Each of the fields of any of the packet parameters  may be capable of accepting multiple entries and\/or wild card entries to facilitate describing groups of packets having different entry points  and\/or exit points.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["214","402","404","402","406","408","410","412","414","416","214","214"],"i":["a","m ","a","n","a","l"]},"Topology map  displays topology of the network being modeled, which may be the topology of LAN . The network devices  -may be the network devices of LAN . The connections  -, represented by lines, are the connections of LAN  as limited by the ACLs of network devices -. Connections  -are the connections connecting network devices -. Entry point  is the point at which the packet enters LAN , and is described by packet parameters  and entry point . Maximum penetration  is a point furthest from the entry point that the packet described by packet parameters  will travel. Maximum penetration point , may be identified according to whether a packet that enters a particular network device is allowed to exit that network device. In an embodiment, a network device is indicated as the maximum penetration point if and only if there are some egress ACLs that inhibit, or a static route that inhibits, packets from exiting via some interfaces of the current network device, because the current network device is the maximum penetration point in the directions of travel that the egress is blocked. Packet paths -are represented by those of connections -having a box on the line representing the connection. Packet paths -are the possible paths along which the packet of packet parameters  may travel. Although only one entry point and maximum penetration point are shown in , there may be more than one entry point and maximum penetration point depicted on topology map . In alternative embodiments, source address  may also be illustrated on topology map  in addition to or instead of entry point . In alternative embodiments, destination port  and\/or destination address  may also be illustrated on topology map .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["500","500","502","504","506","506","500","506","508","510","500","500"]},"Static routing tables  contain tables of statically defined routes. In this context, each static route specifies, for a packet that enters at one interface, which one or more other interfaces the packet is allowed to leave. Typically, the packet is allowed to egress through only one specified interface if a static routing table is present. In an embodiment, ACLs have a higher precedence over static routing tables . Thus, the packet will not be able to egress through the interface specified by static routing tables , if the ACLs do not allow the egress. The use of static routing tables  is not required in an embodiment.","Other network device modules  comprise one or more modules for performing other functions of the kind that are conventional for a network device. ACLs A-N are the ACLs for each of interfaces A-N, respectively, each of which lists interfaces on which an exiting packet is allowed to exit to if entering from the associated interface. ACEs  Aa-Nn comprise access control entries that list the ports through which egresses are allowed by ACLs  A-N. In an embodiment, the restrictions on egress imposed by ACLs A-N and ACEs  Aa-Nn take precedence over the routes specified by static routing tables .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"],"b":"600"},"In step  the packet flow is defined, which may include substeps -. During step  the entries in input fields  are filled in, updated, or altered. In substep a source of the packet is specified. For example, a source IP address may be specified in source address . In substep , the entry point of the packet is specified in entry point  by specifying an IP address and an ingress interface or a first hop router, for example. In substep , the destination of the packet is specified by entering a value in destination address . Although not listed, filling in entries for the other fields of input fields  may also be included in step . Any combination of input fields  may already contain the entry in which case the corresponding substep of setting that field may be skipped. In step , programmic interface  may be used to enter the packet parameters, security, and network information referred to above. Programmic interface  may automatically alter, update, and\/or fill in any combination of fields of input fields  in addition to or instead of manually entering the information into input fields. Alternatively, programmic interface  may bypass input field .","In step , the ACL information and the topology information that is stored in ACL database  of network management system  is accessed. In decision box  a decision is made whether the ACL for the ingress interface of the current network device allows entry into the network device being entered. The first time that the loop of steps , , , , , , and  is processed, the current network device is the network device at which the packet enters the network (steps , , , , , and  will be discussed below in their numerical order among the steps of method ). If no entry is permitted, then the method proceeds to step  where the current device is indicated as a maximum penetration point, the loop terminates for this device, and if this is the first network device, the termination of the loop is the determination of method . In step , if this is not the first network device, then a check is made whether there are any other network devices that need to be checked. If there are no other network devices that need to be checked, then step  terminates process . If there are any other network devices that need to be checked, as determined by step , then as part of terminating the loop for the current network device, method  proceeds to step  to check the next network device. Returning to decision box , if a determination is made that ingress into the current interface is allowed, then method  proceeds to step . However, if the current network device is the destination specified is step , then the loop for the current network device may be terminated, and a loop may be started at step  for the next network device that needs to be checked (if there are any more network devices that need to be checked).","In step , the static routing tables  (if any are present) of the ACLs of the current network device are accessed.","In step , if static routing tables  are present, then a determination is made as to which interface outbound traffic is permitted to exit. If there are no static routing tables  that are present, then outbound traffic is allowed to exit through all interfaces. Consequently, the loop of steps , , , , , , and  is carried out for each interface of the current network device.","In decision box , a check is made as to whether any neighboring network devices exist. If there are no neighbors, then the method proceeds to step  where an indication of the current device is returned to the user as a maximum penetration point in output penetration information . At step , if there are no more network devices that need to be checked, then step  is the termination of method . If there are other network devices that need to be checked then the next network device is checked and method  returns to step . Returning to step , if there is one or more neighbors (i.e., if there is at least one interface that is connected to a neighboring network device), then method  proceeds to decision box  where a determination is made as to whether or not there are any outbound interfaces that have egress ACLs that permit the packet to reach the neighboring network device.","If in step  it is determined that there are no outbound interfaces having egress ACLs that permit a packet to egress, then method  proceeds to step  where the loop is ended for the current network device (however, other loops may still need to be performed or completed for other network devices), and the current network device is indicated as a maximum penetration point. At step , if there are no more network devices that need to be checked, then step  is the termination of method . If there are other network devices that need to be checked, then the next network device is checked and method  returns form step  to step . Returning to step , each outbound interface is checked and any neighboring network device to which egress the egress ACL or static routing table permits a packet to reach is added to the list of network devices that need to be checked, unless that neighboring device was already checked or was already on the list of network devices that need to be checked. In an embodiment, if there are any outbound interfaces for which egress is not permitted, the current network device is designated as a maximum penetration point, because it is a maximum penetration point is that direction. If in step  there are outbound interfaces t for which egress is permitted, then method  proceeds to step , and the current network device is set to the next network device on the list of network devices that need to be checked. If there are no other devices that need to be checked method  terminates. From step  the method proceeds back to step , where again the ACL and topology information is accessed. However, this time in step  the ACL and topology information is accessed with respect to the current network device to determine whether a packet may egress its interfaces and enter the neighboring devices that connect to those interfaces. By repeating the loop for each network device that was identified in step  as being in need of being checked (e.g., added to a list of network devices in need of being checked), the loop starting at step  is repeated for each neighboring network device.","In alternative embodiments, method  may not have all of the steps listed above, or may have other steps in addition to and\/or instead of those listed above. Additionally, many of the steps in method  may be performed in a different order than listed above. Alternative embodiments of the algorithm described above can support analyzing dynamic ACLs, such as reflexive and Context Based Access Control list (CBAC) ACLs. In such scenarios, the algorithm could represent (e.g., simulate) the dynamic behavior. For example, for a given CBAC ACL the user could specify that traffic flows from IF address X to Y via a given router. This may cause changes to the ACL applied on various interfaces. In this approach, method  is then applied to using the changed ACL, and the amount of network penetration is measured. Method  is applied recursively for all variations of the ACLs that may be generated for each CBAC ACL.","In the above example given by method , a maximum penetration point is identified according to whether a virtual packet that enters a network device exits that network device. If the virtual packet enters but never exits a network device (whether it is because the network device has no outbound interfaces or because all outbound interfaces have already been traversed), that network device is designated as a maximum penetration point. However, there are a variety of other ways of defining and\/or identifying maximum penetration points. For example, a network device that is a maximum number of hops from the most direct path between the entry port and destination port may be defined as a maximum penetration point. A maximum penetration point may be identified according to distance and\/or time traveled. In an embodiment, after checking an interface of a first network device and determining that a packet can reach a neighboring network device that neighboring network device is checked before the next interface of the first network device is checked. In an embodiment, a network device having some of its outbound egresses blocked and others that are not blocked is not designated as a maximum penetration point. Any one of or any combination of the alternative definitions and\/or methods of identifying maximum penetration points may used instead of or in addition to the maximum penetration points identified by method .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["700","700","702","704","702","700","706","702","704","706","704","700","708","702","704","710","702"]},"Computer system  may be coupled via bus  to a display , such as a cathode ray tube (\u201cCRT\u201d), for displaying information to a computer user. An input device , including alphanumeric and other keys, is coupled to bus  for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control , such as a mouse, trackball, stylus, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor  and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes, a first axis (e.g., x) and a second axis (e.g., y), that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.","The invention is related to the use of computer system  for apart of or all of network management system . According to one embodiment of the invention, the methods of measuring network penetration, such as method , or any other method described in this specification may be implemented by computer system  in response to processor  executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory  from another computer-readable medium, such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory  causes processor  to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus, embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.","The term \u201ccomputer-readable medium\u201d as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor  for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.","Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punchcards, papertape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer can read.","Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor  for execution. For example, the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system  can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus  carries the data to main memory , from which processor  retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions (such as those of method ) received by main memory  may optionally be stored on storage device  either before or after execution by processor . Method  may also be temporarily or permanently stored on any computer readable medium of computer system  or any other computer readable medium.","Computer system  also includes a communication interface  coupled to bus . Communication interface  provides a two-way data communication coupling to a network link  that is connected to a local network . For example, communication interface  may be an integrated services digital network (\u201cISDN\u201d) card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example, communication interface  may be a local area network (\u201cLAN\u201d) card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation, communication interface  sends and receives electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.","Network link  typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example, network link  may provide a connection through local network  to a host computer  or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider (\u201cISP\u201d) . ISP  in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the \u201cInternet\u201d . Local network  and Internet  both use electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link  and through communication interface , which carry the digital data to and from computer system , are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.","Computer system  can send messages and receive data, including program code (e.g., method  or any other method disclosed in this application), through the network(s), network link  and communication interface . In the Internet example, a server  might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet , ISP , local network  and communication interface . In accordance with the invention, one such downloaded application provides for method  or any method of validating security described herein.","The received code may be executed by processor  as it is received, and\/or stored in storage device , or other non-volatile storage for later execution. In this manner, computer system  may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.","In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will, however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention is illustrated by way of example, and not by way of limitation, in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 7"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
