---
title: Visual and thermal shield system
abstract: There is disclosed herein a visual and thermal shield system that effectively obscures visual indicators and thermal signatures of wheel assemblies of a military vehicle to thereby address longstanding military concerns for vehicle and crew survivability. Our device is spaced outboard from the wheel and tire to maintain an insulating body of air between said shield and the adjacent axle, hub, wheel, and tire. Expeditiously, this invention also affords substantial eclipse of the complete tire profile. If a plurality of wheels exist on said vehicle, then multiple shields of this invention can be used to hinder vehicle identification and potential designation of its military purpose.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07093909&OS=07093909&RS=07093909
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07093909
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030613
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be made, used, and licensed by, or for, the United States Government for governmental purposes without paying us any royalty.","A significant characteristic of modern military vehicles is their appearance when viewed through an optical instrument. These vehicles have unique visual indicators and\/or notational thermal signatures that can be used to readily identify their utility and warfighting capabilities. Reconnaissance on a battlefield with optical instruments is thus vital to both friendly and hostile forces for accurate differentiation between friendly forces, potential targets, and normal background scenes. Following differentiation, the respective forces are then likely to execute offensive actions or perform defensive measures to protect themselves and their equipment. Therefore, the visual appearance and thermal signature of military vehicles are tactical disadvantages which must be avoided.","With regard to thermal signature in low illumination, the axles, hubs, wheels, and tires of these vehicles provide the greatest concern for potential identification. Herein, these components are also commonly referred to as a wheel assembly or components. When a military vehicle traverses a terrain during night or low visibility events, these components are heated by friction and \u201cglow\u201d more than either the vehicle exterior or the adjacent background scenery. Thusly, when a vehicle is viewed through any infrared device, said components provide a ready means for detection, targeting, and destruction by hostile forces. As used herein, a representative military vehicle is a wheeled armored vehicle generally known to international military forces as a Light Armored Vehicle (LAV) which is produced by GM Defense, London, Ontario, Canada. Other examples in the military fleet include wheeled tactical and combat trucks, selected from the STRYKER\u00ae; heavy transport trucks; heavy expanded-mobility tactical trucks; and high-mobility, multi-purpose, wheeled vehicles.","A commonly assigned patent, U.S. Pat. No. 6,254,194, claims a device for reducing the thermal signature of the wheel assembly of a military vehicle by provision of a generally planar structure of sheet metal stock that is directly bolted to the wheel. This is accomplished by a plurality of multifunctional bolting elements that position said device outboard of the wheel and that also create an insulating air gap between the wheel assembly and said device. As the wheel rotates on the axle, this device dynamically rotates with the wheel since it is fixed thereto. Said device completely eclipses the hub and wheel while only partially covering about 50% of the total tire profile. A preferred embodiment therein comprises an eccentric, lobed, sheet-metal member that increases this coverage area to about 80%, as respectively shown in . A variation of the latter embodiment positions an insulating disc between two metal discs to further obscure the area of the wheel by flexible bristles extending from said disc.","It is an object of this invention to introduce a visual and thermal shield system which hinders the interpretation by a viewer of a military purpose and warfighting capability of a vehicle when observed through a modern optical instrument. It is another object herein to provide a resilient shield system that appears substantially the same in a distorted position as it would in a normal, relaxed position. It is a separate object to provide a shield system that is quickly installed, readily removed, and easily adapted for deployment of existing fleets of military vehicles generally employed by international military forces. It is a final object to produce this shield in current manufacturing facilities from available, commercial materials.","In sharp contrast to U.S. Pat. No. 6,254,194, we have developed a visual and thermal shield system that effectively obscures thermal signatures and visual indicators from the wheel assemblies of a military vehicle to effectively address longstanding concerns for vehicle and crew survivability. This device is spaced outboard from the wheel and tire to maintain an insulating body of air between said device and the adjacent axle, hub, wheel, and tire. If a plurality of wheels exists on said vehicle, as in , then multiple shield systems of this invention will be employed. Expeditiously, our shield system also affords substantial eclipse of the complete tire profile.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","12","14","16","18","20","12","19"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 2 and 3","b":["22","12","10","21","12","12","16","14","24","18","26","20","28","30","32"]},"Similar to conventional mountings, the wheel  and drum  are held fast to hub  by five, stud-compatible nuts (not shown) with internal threads that match the standard lugs. The remaining three studs of the wheel are fitted with three hexagonal fasteners  that are elongated as compared to the above mentioned nuts. The inboard end of these fasteners has a threaded bore of matching threads for receiving the three remaining threaded studs  and securely bearing against the wheel . The outboard end of these fasteners also has a threaded bore for accepting a wheel mounting bracket  of this invention. This bracket is an isosceles triangle in form that has apertures in each angle. It is mounted to the wheel in an inverse position with its base fastened at the wheel top by two bolts  within the bolting pattern along a parallel line and its apex fastened by a single bolt  at a point nearest the ground as shown in . The shaft end of bolts  pierce the above mentioned bores at the outboard ends of fasteners  and they are readily torqued into appropriate assembly position. These elongate hexagonal fasteners  also function herein as spacers to keep shield device  axially remote from wheel  and tire  by a predetermined distance of engineering choice. Thereby, an insulating body of air occupies the gap between shield  and wheel assembly .","Referring now to , a frontal view of the skeletal framework  of our visual and thermal shield system  is depicted with the outer shell or cover  removed to show its basic form. It is comprised of an outer, substantially circular or annular structure  with a small segment  of that circle removed at the bottom along chord  to prevent dragging or ground contact. It is noted that the ground clearance so provided is necessary for travel in off-road conditions, such as snow, sand, mud, and like soft or even rough terrains that contain obstacles, barricades, and debris. Further, this clearance is essential to accommodate tire distortions or suspension travel as the vehicle jostles about.","The internal structure of skeletal framework  is formed by four circular (annular) elements which spatially fit therein as a reinforcing \u201cY\u201d-shaped structure that imparts appropriate strength and resiliency to the entire skeletal framework . Thus, two identical circles  are positioned within the upper reaches of the structure  to form branches of the \u201cY\u201d which are in turn supported by two smaller circles ,  of differing diameters that form the vertical stem of said \u201cY\u201d. These four interior circles are peripherally attached to each other, the bottom of said substantially circular form  at the midpoint of its chord , and to each other at the indicated points P by any convenient method of engineering choice, such as threaded fasteners, pop-rivets, adhesive bonds, spot welds, and the like. Also attached to the skeletal framework , but only on its exterior at point L, is a suitable breakaway lanyard  that attaches to vehicle  at point V. The purpose of this lanyard is to maintain our shield system in proper orientation and alignment at all times during any activities.","Since it is entirely possible that the structural framework  will come into direct contact with the ground, or objects thereon as it travels on a typical battlefield, it is desired herein to utilize a highly flexible and resilient structure within our shield. This will impart a greater resistance to damage and will extend the performance of its intended function. This design also permits our claimed visual and thermal shield system  to appear substantially the same in a distorted position as it would appear in a normal, relaxed position. For the uses contemplated herein, any thermal signature emitted by the exposed portion of the tire (at segment ) will likely be minimal and very difficult to interpret since said exposed portion will obviously be hidden within soft soils, vegetation, debris, and like features of battlefield terrains.","Our shield system  is conveniently constructed of any suitable material of engineering choice. However, we prefer the use of resilient spring steel and pliable, woven fabrics as the principal construction components. Preferably, the chosen fabrics for the cover  are of a tight fitting, interwoven elastomeric fabric that will assume and retain the basic shield form. Each shield system  is essentially positioned and held upright to the military vehicle  by the combined effect of the breakaway lanyard  and the special shield mounting bracket  that is attached to the wheel(s)  as shown in our . Since components of greatest concern on the vehicle are thereby completely masked or eclipsed by our shield system, an observer remote from the vehicle of  at an outboard position will be unable to readily identify a military purpose or mission for said vehicle.","Referring to , and continuing with our installation process, the mounting bracket  has a concentric collar  that axially extends outward from the approximate center of the planar surface of the aforementioned isosceles triangle. At the outboard end, said collar has an even smaller diameter neck  which is machined, stamped, or otherwise formed in said collar. Thusly, neck  is also concentric with the larger collar  and is efficiently designed to accept and receive thereon a concentric bearing assembly  and a pendulum or shield carrier . Thereby, a structural housing for the bearing assembly  is formed between the concentric collar  on the inboard side, the bearing retainer  on the outboard side, the smaller diameter neck  on the bottom, and a conformal bore or opening within the shield carrier  along the radial exterior of said bearing assembly. The combination of elements , , , and  provides an internal bearing race for the bearing assembly . Generally, the bearing assembly may be selected from the group consisting of ball, roller, or equivalent types of bearings. This assembly is conveniently secured in place by any suitable retention means, such as a threaded bore in the bearing retainer  that conforms to similar threads on neck , bolts, welds, or standard retaining clips and\/or cotter pins which pass through indentations or apertures in the neck , flange , or mounting bracket .","Referring to , the shield carrier  is essentially an isosceles triangle having a rounded apex . Said carrier is mounted upright to the wheel  and the military vehicle  when viewed from an outboard position. Positioned within this rounded apex is a conforming aperture  of sufficient diameter to axially receive and radially retain the bearing assembly . The carrier  is in turn held in position on the mounting bracket  by the bearing retainer . By design, said retainer has a somewhat larger diameter than said conforming aperture of the carrier to hold the carrier in position. As explicitly shown in , the shield carrier  also has a circular flange  that axially extends outboard from the planar surface of said carrier and beyond the bearing retainer . Essentially, this circular flange , the retainer , and the smaller diameter neck  are all concentric about one another.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIGS. 5 and 6","FIGS. 5 and 6"],"b":["22","21","22","22","18","38","41","54","52","54","41","55","41","54","55","54","39","39","41","43","36","38","52"]},"An alternate embodiment of the mounting bracket  of our invention would entail an integral structure incorporating bracket  and the three hexagonal fasteners  into a unitary structure. Then, the three studs  which formerly passed through the wheel  to receive the inboard side of the hexagonal fasteners  will be removed. Thereafter, the three bolts  will be replaced with longer, threaded shafts sufficient to extend from the outboard side of bracket  through said unitary structure to secure the wheel  and the drum  to hub .","We wish it understood that we do not intend to be limited to the exact details of construction or the method shown herein since obvious modifications will occur to those skilled in the relevant art without departing from the spirit and scope of the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
