---
title: Multi-resonant double-sided high-temperature superconductive magnetic dipole antenna
abstract: A group of Double-Sided High-TSuperconducting (HTS) Magnetic-Dipole Micro-Antennas is provided. The multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna are fabricated using thin-film (τ≈3000 Å) YBCO material (with T≈92 K). The substrate is a single LaAlOcrystal (with the loss-tangent of tan δ≈10, ε≈24) with the thickness of τ≈508 μm. Each antenna is comprised of a combination of co-centric loop and spiral structures, patterned on both sides of the substrate without ground plane. Due to their geometric structures, each antenna demonstrates a multi-resonant characteristic. The comparison between the overall dimensions of the device (22×22 mm) and variation of the wavelength at resonances indicate a typical ratio of D/λ≈10between the largest loop diameter and the longest wavelength. A multi-resonant double-sided spiral HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna, a multi-resonant double-sided folded log-periodic HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna and methods for reducing antenna length with a multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06914576&OS=06914576&RS=06914576
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 06914576
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031020
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, imported, sold, and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.","The invention generally relates to superconducting antennas. In particular, the invention relates to a double-sided high-temperature superconductive magnetic dipole antenna.","Several applications of High-Temperature Superconductivity to RF components and systems have been investigated. Currently available device applications and frequency ranges of High-Temperature Superconducting (\u201cHTS\u201d)-RF components also indicate a wide variation from the low HF frequencies of the electromagnetic spectrum to much higher satellite communication frequencies. But, those prior art devices suffer from a number of shortcomings, disadvantages and limitations.","Until now, it has not been possible to attain the advantages of low surface loss characteristics and reduced antenna size in available HTS-RF components. Accordingly, there has been a long-felt need for a reduced antenna size with the low surface loss characteristics found in superconducting materials. This invention's multi-resonant double-sided High-TSuperconducting (HTS) magnetic dipole micro-antenna advantageously provides low surface loss characteristics, reduced antenna size and a high Q value, without suffering from the shortcomings, disadvantages and limitations of prior art devices.","This invention's multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna comprises patterned thin-film YBCO layers placed around a LaAlOcrystal substrate that are shaped to produce strong magnetic coupling between loops on each side of the structure, low loss surface characteristics, circular polarization and multi-resonant characteristics that are not available in the prior art HTS antenna structures. Considering the extreme variations of wavelengths achieved at these frequencies, with \u03bb varying between a few centimeters and a few meters and a 10\u03bb diameter, the antenna provides significant low loss surface characteristics in a much-reduced size, without suffering from the shortcomings, disadvantages and limitations of prior art devices.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna with low surface loss characteristics, reduced antenna size and a high Q value.","It is another object of the present invention to provide a multi-resonant double-sided HTS spiraled magnetic dipole micro-antenna with low surface loss characteristics, reduced antenna size and a high Q value.","It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a multi-resonant double-sided HTS folded log-periodic magnetic dipole micro-antenna with low surface loss characteristics, reduced antenna size a high Q value.","These and other objects and advantages can now attained by this invention's multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna, without suffering from any of the disadvantages, shortcomings and limitations of prior art antenna structures. The present invention provides a multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna comprising two patterned thin-film YBCO layers positioned on both sides of an LaAlOcrystal substrate that are shaped into different rounded configurations to produce strong magnetic coupling between the loops on each side, low loss surface characteristics, circular polarization and multi-resonant characteristics with frequencies as low as 200 MHz and as high as a few GHz. This antenna's curvilinear shapes, loops or spirals advantageously provide a multi-resonant characteristic that is not available in the prior art HTS antenna structures and a much shorter antenna diameter of about 10\u03bb. In one embodiment, this invention's multi-resonant double-sided magnetic dipole micro-antenna comprises a number of Archimedean spirals patterned on both sides of the LAO substrate. In another embodiment, this invention's double-sided magnetic dipole micro-antenna comprises a folded log periodic structure patterned on both sides of the LAO substrate. The present invention also encompasses multi-resonant RF radiating elements with fundamental modes and methods for reducing antenna size and providing low loss surface characteristics, circular polarization and multi-resonant characteristics in HTS magnetic dipoles.","Referring now to the drawings,  is a top view of the multi-resonant double-sided spiral HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna  of the present invention, comprising a first YBCO thin-film  patterned on a top surface  of an LAO substrate . The first YBCO thin-film  is patterned in a curvilinear shape with a plurality of loops to form a first means for YBCO radiation  with a spiral pattern. The first YBCO radiating means  generates a first magnetic flux within the spiral loops and is configured so that at any half-cycle the current-flow in one side of the spiral is in phase with the other side of the spiral from another YBCO radiating means on a bottom surface of the LAO substrate , not shown in this drawing. The LAO substrate  does not have a ground plane. The first YBCO radiating means  is connected to a contact pad .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["20","26","25","23","27","27","25","23","27","24","24","23","24","28","26","28","27"]},"The unique YBCO spiral pattern  in this embodiment affords multi-resonant properties because of the lack of smooth transition between adjacent spiral loops and the discontinuity between the  first YBCO radiating means  and the  second YBCO radiation means . Further, both the  first YBCO radiating means  and the  second YBCO radiation means  also provide an advantageous circular polarization on each surface because of the circular current path created by the spiral pattern. The multi-resonant double-sided spiral HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna  of the present invention also provides the low ohmic loss that is characteristic of HTS devices. In a preferred embodiment, the LAO substrate  was a single LaAlOcrystal with a loss-tangent of tan \u03b4\u224810, \u03b5\u224824 and a thickness of about 508 \u03bcm. In the preferred embodiment, the YBCO thin film  was about 3000 \u212b thick with a Tof about 92\u00b0 K, a width of 100 \u03bcm and inner and outer radii of 450 \u03bcm and 5950 \u03bcm, respectively. In the preferred embodiment, the  first YBCO radiating means  and the  second YBCO radiation means  in the shape of an Archimedean spiral can be configured with 12 turns of the YBCO thin films  and , respectively.","To better appreciate the operation and features of this invention's multi-resonant double-sided spiral HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna , several theoretical concepts underlying its operation should be explained. These theoretical concepts are the loop theory for the magnetic-dipole antenna, inductive coupling between the top and bottom surfaces  and , respectively, propagation of electromagnetic waves in space and far-field and the effects of using HTS materials in the composition of these devices.","In magnetic-dipole antennas, for an n-turn loop carrying a time-varying current, I, one can derive a fictitious magnetic-dipole with current I, having a length of \u0394l, as follows:\n\n\u2003\u2003(1)\n\nwhere the \u03c9 is the angular frequency, Ais the loop area, and \u03bc is the permeability of the medium.\n","Three regions surrounding the magnetic-dipole are the near-field reactive region, near-field radiation region and the far-field radiation region. In most antenna analyses, the boundary between the near-field radiation region and the far-field radiation region is usually given as directly related to the wavelength as r\u02dc\u03bb\/2\u03c0, and the area beyond that point is considered the far-field radiation region, which is the region of interest here. The reactive region, however, shows strong magnetic coupling between the first YBCO radiation means  and the second YBCO radiation means . To show inductive coupling, one could utilize the magnetic dipole moment-m of an n-turn loop carrying the retarded current I, given by:\n\nSin[\u03c9()]\u2003\u2003(2)\n\n=\u03bc\u2003\u2003(3)\n\nIn the multi-resonant double-sided spiral HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna  of the present invention, the magnitude of the magnetic-dipole moment is directly related to the magnetic flux, where \u03c6=m\/l, with l being the length of the loop, which is generated by one spiral of the first YBCO radiation means  and is shared by the other spiral of the second YBCO radiation means . Further analysis shows that inductive coupling between the top  and bottom  surfaces, or vice versa, plays the most important role in the radiation of the double-sided antennae. Using the general far-field radiation equations of the loop antenna of any size, given as:\n\n={60( Sin(\u03b8))}\/\u2003\u2003(4)\n\n( Sin(\u03b8))}\/2\u2003\u2003(5)\n\nwhere Jis the Bessel function of first-kind, for n=1 in a general summation form of J(C Sin \u03b8)=\u03a3{(\u22121)\/[s!(s+n)!]}{(C Sin \u03b8)\/2}(s varying between 0-\u221e), and C is the circumference of the loop in terms of wavelength, where C=2\u03c0a\/\u03bb, for a being the radius of loop.\n","These general equations can further be simplified, by taking the Bessel function to its first-order approximation, when considering the specific case of small loop structure. For the loop area of A<\u03bb\/100, and C<1\/3 case these fields are:\n\n={120\u03c0Sin \u03b8}\/\u2003\u2003(6)\n\nSin \u03b8}\/\u2003\u2003(7)\n\nOne observed advantage of this invention's double-sided antenna structure is platform independence because coupling between the antenna and its surroundings has been greatly reduced, if not completely eliminated. Under resonance the top and bottom reactive components are strongly coupled with each other, instead of the typical coupling with the nearby structures, and this strong coupling could prove to be extremely useful when cross talk and co-site interference are of concern.\n","The HTS materials selected for this invention's multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna exhibit a number of significant advantages and these beneficial effects are more pronounced when the ohmic losses and the superconductive currents are considered in the operation of the antenna. The most remarkable effect is that small ohmic losses of the superconductive antenna that translate into an overall increase in the radiation efficiency, \u03b7, according to the equation:\n\n\u03b7\/()\u2003\u2003(8)\n\nwhere for a n-turn spiral, the R\u224831200 n[A\/\u03bb], and Rare the radiation and ohmic loss resistance values, respectively. HTS materials reduce the loss resistance, which results in higher values for radiation efficiency and significantly improved antenna performance.\n","As expected, the values of the loss resistance components cause the ohmic losses. Such losses are minimized, if not eliminated, by using an HTS conductor such as YBCO. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that a superconductor's surface impedance is a strong function of the penetration depth, frequency, and normal-state conductivity, \u03c3, of the materials, given by:\n\n\u03c3=\u03c3=\u03c3()[1\/(\u03bc\u03c9\u03bb)]\u2003\u2003(9)\n\n\u2003\u2003(10)\n\n=\u00bd{\u03c9\u03bc\u03bb\u03c3[Cot )+(\u03c4\/\u03bb)(1\/[Sin (\u03c4\/\u03bb)])}\u2003\u2003(11)\n\n=\u03c9\u03bc\u03bbCot (\u03c4\/\u03bb)\u2003\u2003(12)\n\nThus, using the two-fluid model, and considering full-wave analysis by using the propagation constant instead of quasi-static approach, the loss and phase constants are given as follows:\n\n\u03b3=\u03b1+\u2003\u2003(13)\n\n\n\u2003\u03b2={(\u03bc\u03b5\u03b5)}{\u03c9[\u03bc+(\u03bb)Cot (\u03c4\/\u03bb)]}\u03b5={[(\u03b5+1)\/2]+[(\u03b5\u22121)\/2][1\/(1+12)]+0.04[1}, for \u2003\u2003(15)\n\n\u03bc={2\u03bc\/(1+\u03bc)+(1\u2212\u03bc)\/[1+10}\u2003\u2003(16)\n\nwhere \u03c3 is the complex conductivity, \u03c4 is the line-thickness, w is the microstrip line-width, d is the substrate thickness, \u03b5and \u03bcare the relative permittivity and relative permeability constants, respectively. The inherent HTS parameter called the temperature-dependent London penetration-depth is:\n\n\u03bb()=\u03bb\/(\u221a[1\u2212()])\u2003\u2003(17)\n\nwhere is \u03bbthe same at zero degree Kelvin, and Rand Xare the surface resistance and reactance, respectively. Thus it is clear that surface resistance values determine the antenna's ohmic losses.\n","Another important advantage is platform independence between the antenna and the ground. Platform independence can be demonstrated by considering the equivalent lumped-element circuit diagram depicted in FIG.  and the  block diagrams. Referring now to , there is depicted an equivalent lumped-element circuit diagram at a specific frequency in which coupling inductance, which is the result of mutual inductance, is excited when mutual resonance occurs. It should be noted that this resonant frequency is different, and its value is smaller, than that of individual spiral inductors.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["24","27","24","27"],"sup":"th "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIGS. 4 and 5"],"b":["24","27","27","24","24","27","22","25"],"sup":["st ","2","2","2","2","2"],"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["v","A"]}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["i","A"]}}}]}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mi":"A"},{"mi":"B"}]},{"mtd":[{"mi":"C"},{"mi":"D"}]}]}},{"mo":["\uf603","\uf604"],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["v","B"]}}},{"mtd":{"msub":{"mi":["i","B"]}}}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2003"}}],"mo":"\u2261"}}},"i":["A=[Z","Z","+Z","Z","+Z","Z","+Z","Z","B","[Z","Z","Z","Z","Z","]\/[Z","Z","]}+{[Z","Z","Z","Z","Z","\/[Z","Z","Z","C","Z","Z","Z","D=Z","Z","+Z","Z","+Z","Z","+Z","Z","+Z","Z"],"sub":["S","rad.","S","G","G","S","G","G","S","rad.","G","rad.","G","rad.","G","S","rad.","G","rad.","G","G","rad.","G","rad.","G","G","S","rad.","rad.","G","G","S","G","S","G","G","S ","rad. ","G ","G"],"br":[{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{}]},"Referring back to  now, the equivalent values of the Z, Zare obtained as:\n\n]\/[1\u2212\u03c9]\u2003\u2003(19)\n\n(\u03c9\u22121])\u2003\u2003(20)\n\nwhere Ris the spiral ohmic loss, Lis the self inductance of each of the spirals and Cis the inter-turn self capacitance of the spiral. The numerical values of the above lumped-elements can be determined by using full-wave analysis and considering their geometric configurations given by these formulas:\n\n=(5.553\u00d710){+2()]\/[15\u22127]} (nH)\u2003\u2003(21)\n\n=7\u00d710(\/\u03c0)+0.06 (pF) (22)\n\n\/(4\u03c0)]\/(4\u03c0)]} (\u03a9)\u2003\u2003(23)\n\n, (mutual or coupling inductance in nH)\u2003\u2003(24)\n\n\u2248\u03b5\u03b5[()\/], (mutual or coupling capacitance in pF)\u2003\u2003(25)\n\nwhere, for an n-turn spiral, Aand Aare the outer and inner areas of the individual spiral, respectively, W is the line-width, \u03b5is the effective relative permittivity and dis the effective substrate thickness (d\u2248d+2\u03bb), with all dimensions given in micrometers (\u03bcm). Also the value of the coefficient of mutual inductance is found to be k\u22481.4946 for frequencies of less than about 500 MHz.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIGS. 6A and 6B","FIG. 6A","FIG. 6B"],"sub":"2 "},"The two basic observed modes of radiation are the axial and radial. In the case of axial mode, it radiates in the direction of the spiral axis in both directions and a narrow bandwidth is detectable. In the case of the radial mode, a typical donut-shaped radiation pattern was observed, except for the area of the feed terminal.","The present invention also includes a folded log-periodic structure embodiment. Referring now to the drawings,  is a top view of the multi-resonant double-sided folded log-periodic HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna  of the present invention, comprising a series of first YBCO thin-films  patterned on a top surface  of an LAO substrate . The first YBCO thin-films  are patterned to a form a first means for YBCO radiation  further comprising groups of triple concentric rings arranged in top ring clusters with a ring gap  separating the top concentric rings in each cluster, and the top ring clusters being separated from each other by a top cluster gap . The first YBCO radiating means  generates a first magnetic flux within the clusters' triple ring structure and is configured so that at any half-cycle the current-flow in one side of the triple ring structure is in phase with the other side of the triple ring structure from another YBCO radiating means on a bottom LAO substrate, not shown in this drawing. The LAO substrate  does not have a ground plane. The first YBCO radiation means  is connected to a contact pad .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7","FIG. 8"],"b":["40","48","45","43","49","49","45","43","49","44","49","45","50","49","47","49","47","49","45","49"]},"The unique YBCO triple ring cluster structure in this embodiment affords a multi-resonant characteristic because of the discontinuity between the  first YBCO radiating means  and the  second YBCO radiation means . Additionally, both the  first YBCO radiating means  and the  second YBCO radiation means  also provide an advantageous circular polarization on each surface because of the circular current path created by the triple ring cluster pattern. The multi-resonant double-sided folded log-periodic HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna  of the present invention also provides the low ohmic loss that is characteristic of HTS devices. The  first YBCO radiating means  and the  second YBCO radiation means  in this embodiment are configured with 12 turns of the YBCO thin films  and , respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIGS. 9A and 9B","FIG. 9A","FIG. 9B"],"b":"40"},"The present invention also contemplates numerous other variations, modifications and applications beside the double-sided spiral HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna and multi-resonant double-sided folded log-periodic HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna, as well as methods for reducing antenna length with a multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna.","Referring back to , the present invention also includes a method for reducing antenna length with a multi-resonant double-sided HTS magnetic dipole micro-antenna, comprising the steps of depositing a first YBCO thin-film  on a top surface  of an LAO substrate , depositing a second YBCO thin-film  on a bottom surface  of LAO substrate , forming a first means for YBCO radiation  by patterning the first YBCO thin-film  on the top surface  into a first curvilinear shape and forming a second means for YBCO radiation  by patterning the second YBCO thin-film  on the bottom surface  in a second curvilinear shape. The steps of the method further comprise generating a first magnetic flux within the first YBCO radiating means , generating a second magnetic flux within the second YBCO radiation means , generating an inductive coupling by a magnetic dipole moment from the first YBCO radiation means  and the second YBCO radiation means , configuring the first YBCO radiating means  so that at any one of a plurality half-cycles a first current flow is in phase with a second current flow in the second YBCO radiating means , generating a circular polarization radiation pattern in the first curvilinear shape and the second curvilinear shape, causing a plurality of multi-resonant properties by a discontinuity between the first YBCO radiation means  and the second YBCO radiation means , providing a decreased surface impedance due to the interaction of the first YBCO radiating means , the second YBCO radiating means  and the LAO substrate  and permitting a reduced antenna size with an increased antenna efficiency due to the inductive coupling, the first current flow and the second current flow being in phase, the decreased surface impedance, the circular polarization radiation pattern and the plurality of multi-resonant properties. The first curvilinear and second curvilinear shapes can be a plurality of spiral loops, a multiple turn Archimedean spiral or a series of concentric rings.","It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention, which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials, components, stacking arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein, without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly, the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description, but only by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 4","sup":"th "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 5","sup":"st "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 6A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
