---
title: Deployment apparatus for cameras and other hand-held devices and deployment method
abstract: A hand-held device has a body and a deployable component mounted to the body. The deployable component is movable, with a deployment method, between undeployed and deployed positions. A drive unit is disposed within the body and engages the deployable component. The drive unit is reversibly pivotable about a drive axis from a first end orientation, through first and second ranges of intermediate orientations, to a second end orientation. An actuator that is mounted to the body is manually switchable, in forward and rearward strokes, between primary and secondary positions. The actuator at the forward stroke pivots the drive unit from the first end orientation to a second range intermediate orientation and at the rearward stroke pivots the drive unit from the second end orientation to a first range intermediate orientation. A drive over-center mechanism biases the drive unit to pivot from the second range intermediate orientations toward the second end orientation and from the first range intermediate orientations toward the first end orientation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06856763&OS=06856763&RS=06856763
owner: Eastman Kodak Company
number: 06856763
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030529
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["Reference is made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. Pat. No. 6,711,349, entitled: CAMERA ASSEMBLY HAVING A TRAVELER AND PIVOTABLE TURRET DRIVEN BY AN OVER-CENTER MECHANISM, granted Mar. 23, 2004, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. Pat. No. 6,751,411, entitled: CAMERA ASSEMBLY HAVING TRAVEL STOP, granted Jun. 15, 2004, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. Pat. No. 6,757,490, entitled: CAMERA ASSEMBLY HAVING FORWARD AND RETURN CAM SURFACES FOR A TURRET ON DIFFERENT PARTS, granted Jun. 29, 2004, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/447,701, entitled: CAMERA ASSEMBLY HAVING COVERGLASS-LENS ADJUSTER, filed May 29, 2003, in the name of Wayne Stiehler.","Reference is made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/447,702, entitled: CAMERA ASSEMBLY HAVING OVER-CENTER BIASING OF TRAVELER AGAINST RESTS, filed May 29, 2003, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is also made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. Pat. No. 6,741,400, entitled: MULTIPLE POSITION LENS BARREL HAVING CAM CYLINDER WITH COMMONLY BIASED FIRST AND SECOND LENS CARRIERS, granted May 25, 2004, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is also made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. Pat. No. 6,687,457, entitled: CAMERA FRAME ASSEMBLY HAVING FOUR-BAR LINKAGE SHUTTER ACTUATOR, granted Feb. 3, 2004, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is also made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/324,966, entitled: CAMERA LENS MODULE HAVING RECYCLABLE LENS BARREL CAP, filed Dec. 20, 2002, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is also made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/327,503, entitled: EXTENDABLE LENS CAMERA HAVING MECHANICAL SHUTTER BLOCKING IN INTERMEDIATE LENS POSITION, filed Dec. 20, 2002, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is also made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. Pat. No. 6,738,568, entitled: CAMERA FRAME ASSEMBLY HAVING SHUTTER THAT SLIDES FORWARD AND BACK WITH ZOOM LENS, granted May 18, 2004, in the name of Anthony DiRisio, David J. Cornell.","Reference is also made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/325,553, entitled: CAMERA FRAME ASSEMBLY HAVING SHUTTER ACTUATOR WITH TELESCOPING STRIKER AND METHOD, filed Dec. 20, 2002, in the name of David J. Cornell.","Reference is also made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. Pat. No. 6,640,053, entitled: CAMERA FRONT SEAL ASSEMBLY, Granted Oct. 28, 2003, in the name of Anthony DiRisio.","Reference is also made to commonly assigned, co-pending U.S. Pat. No. 6,786,657, entitled: CAMERA FRAME ASSEMBLY HAVING INDEPENDENTLY BACK-PIVOTING DRIVE HUB FOR IMPACT SHUTTER, granted Sep. 7, 2004, in the name of Anthony DiRisio, David J. Cornell.","The invention relates to cameras and other hand-held devices having deployable components and more particularly relates to a deployment apparatus for cameras and other hand-held devices and a deployment method.","Cameras are known, in which a two position lens module is moved between positions by a slider and is biased toward one or the other position by an over-center mechanism. U.S. Pat. No. 6,449,430 discloses a one-time-use camera that switches between positions in this manner. U.S. Pat. No. 6,466,740 discloses a camera having a retracting-extending lens and a viewfinder mask. The mask and lens are moved in tandem by a slider. An over-center mechanism biases the lens and mask toward either of two opposed positions. U.S. Pat. No. 6,343,186 and U.S. Pat. No. 6,408,133 are similar. The available travel for the parts moved is a function of the distance moved by the slider. This constrains the functions of the parts moved by the slider.","It would thus be desirable to provide cameras and other hand-held devices having a deployment apparatusn and deployment methods, in which travel of deployed parts is not directly limited by the range of movement of a slider.","The invention is defined by the claims. The invention, in broader aspects, provides a hand-held device that has a body and a deployable component mounted to the body. The deployable component is movable, with a deployment method, between undeployed and deployed positions. A drive unit is disposed within the body and engages the deployable component. The drive unit is reversibly pivotable about a drive axis from a first end orientation, through first and second ranges of intermediate orientations, to a second end orientation. An actuator that is mounted to the body is manually switchable, in forward and rearward strokes, between primary and secondary positions. The actuator at the forward stroke pivots the drive unit from the first end orientation to a second range intermediate orientation and at the rearward stroke pivots the drive unit from the second end orientation to a first range intermediate orientation. A drive over-center mechanism biases the drive unit to pivot from the second range intermediate orientations toward the second end orientation and from the first range intermediate orientations toward the first end orientation.","It is an advantageous effect of the invention that improved cameras and other hand-held devices having a deployment apparatusn and deployment methods are provided, in which travel of deployed parts is not directly limited by the range of movement of a slider.","The cameras and other hand-held devices described here have a deployment apparatus  that is used to move a deployable member , such as a lens barrel or door . The camera or other hand-held device has a body . The deployable member  is mounted to the body  and movable between an undeployed position and a deployed position.","The nature of the positions is a function of the nature of the deployable member. The deployable member  may be exposed to the outside environment in one or both positions or may be fully internal to the body . For example, in the embodiment shown in , the undeployed position is a wide angle position of a taking lens of the camera . The deployed position is a telephoto position of the taking lens. The taking lens is located internal to the camera in both positions.","The deployment apparatus  has a snap-action that propels the deployable member into the deployed and undeployed positions, in alternation. With manual operation, this helps deter positioning between the deployed and undeployed positions. This is desirable with two-position lenses, lens covers, and the like. The snap-action also makes available a greater extent of travel of the deployable member than of an actuator  that is moved by the user. This is useful in cameras and other hand-held devices , in which compactness is important and available space for mechanical features is limited. In particular embodiments described herein, the operator of the deployment apparatus  also has a drive unit that decouples from the actuator , during the completion of the deployment of the deployable member into the deployed and undeployed positions. This feature can protect a relatively delicate deployable member from the effects of excessive travel.","The movement of the deployable member  can be a rotation or can be a translation along a longitudinal axis or can combine both types of movement. The invention is generally described herein in relation to embodiments, in which the deployable member  is a lens barrel that is rotated between two different positions by the deployment apparatus . Like considerations apply to other kinds of deployable members, such as lens covers, flash housings, and doors and covers; and to other hand-held devices such as a personal digital assistants, cellular telephones, music players, and the like.","In the embodiments described herein, the deployment apparatus  is powered by the user. This approach is particularly advantageous, but is not limiting. The deployment apparatus  can be powered by a motor (not shown).","Referring now to the embodiment of , body  includes separable front and rear covers , that enclose a frame assembly . The frame assembly  includes a frame  to which a number of other camera components are attached. One of those components is a lens module , which includes a support  that is joined to the frame .","The support  has a mount  and a guide  that is joined to the mount . The support  can be permanently attached to the frame  or can be reversibly removable. The latter is convenient for the recycling of one-use-time cameras. The manner of attachment is not critical. The support  can be hooked to the frame  by hooks  and matching holdfasts (not shown). Other types of fasteners can also be used. The support  can also be adhered to the frame , or held by friction fit, or by some other means. The frame  and support  or frame  and mount  can be made as a one-piece plastic casting, if desired, or can each be a one-piece plastic casting.","The camera  includes a capture unit  that captures and stores images. The type of capture unit  used is not critical. The capture unit  can capture images on photographic film. In that case, it is convenient if the frame  has a pair of opposed chambers (not separately identified in the figures). Film is wound from chamber to chamber across a capture plane (not shown). Film related features (not shown), such as a film transport, can be provided in a manner well known to those of skill in the art.","With an electronic capture unit, the photographic film is replaced by an electronic imager (not shown). The imager is controlled by a control system that includes electronic memory. Captured images are stored in memory and can be manipulated by the control system. Features of such electronic capture units are well known to those of skill in the art.","A flash unit  and other camera components, well known to those of skill in the art, can also be included in the camera . The flash unit  and other components are mounted to the frame  or held between the frame  and the covers ,.","The support  defines an optical axis . The guide  extends forward from the mount  along the optical axis  and encircles a central passage  aligned with the optical axis . The term \u201cencircles\u201d and like terms are used in a broad sense that does not imply and is not limited to circular shapes, nor to structures without gaps or openings. In the embodiments discussed herein, the central passage  is generally circular in cross-section. It will be understood that like considerations apply to embodiments having like features of other shapes.","The lens barrel is reversibly movable along the central passage , in alignment with the optical axis , from a retracted position, through a plurality of intermediate positions, to an extended position. The lens barrel can be disposed fully within the guide  in extended and retracted positions of the lens barrel can protrude from the guide  in the extended position or in both extended and retracted positions. The invention is generally described herein in relation to an embodiment in which the lens barrel is disposed completely within the guide , in the extended and retracted positions. The front cover  encloses the guide , except at a cover opening  aligned with the optical axis . The cover opening  can be covered by a transparent or filtering cover glass .","The lens barrel can, alternatively, protrude from the guide  in the extended position or in both extended and retracted positions. In this case, the margin of the opening  in the front cover , encircles the lens barrel (not shown).","A twist ring  is mounted on the guide . The twist ring  encircles the guide  or extends at least part of the way around the guide . The twist ring  mechanically engages the lens barrel , such that rotation of the twist ring  moves the lens barrel along the optical axis  between the extended and retracted positions. The twist ring  is trapped in place axially by the front cover  or other parts.","In , the mechanical coupling between the twist ring  and the lens barrel is a cam-type extension-retraction mechanism. The lens barrel includes a tracker  that has a pair or opposed track followers  that extend outward relative to a main portion  of the lens barrel . The twist ring  has a tracking portion  that receives the track followers  of the lens barrel and constrains the lens barrel , such that the lens barrel moves forward and backward along the optical axis  when the twist ring  is rotated between the rightward and leftward configurations.","The tracking portion  of the twist ring  is a set of internal tracks  that spiral about the optical axis . Each track  receives a respective one of the track followers . In the illustrated embodiments, the tracks  are spiral slots that extend toward the optical axis  from the circumferential wall of the twist ring . The track followers  are pins that extend through respective tracks . Alternatively, tracks  can be pairs of parallel fences that receive track followers  configured to ride between the fences. The extension-retraction mechanism features of the lens barrel  and twist ring  also can be interchanged, for example, the track followers  can be provided on the twist ring  rather than the lens barrel ","The track followers  extend to the tracks  through corresponding slots  in the guide . The slots  each extend parallel to the optical axis . In illustrated embodiments, there are two slots  and two tracks . The track followers  slide along the tracks  when the twist ring  is rotated. Since the track followers  are held by the slots  of the support , this results in the lens barrel traversing linearly inward or outward along the optical axis .","Other types of extension-retraction mechanism can be used. For example, the twist ring  and lens barrel  can be linked by a gear train, pins that ride in cam slots or grooves, or the like.","The lens barrel telescopes inward and outward with rotation of the twist ring . A taking lens system (not separately illustrated) in the lens barrel is set for a wide angle view when the twist ring and and lens barrel are in the undeployed position. The taking lens system is set for a telephoto view when the twist ring and lens barrel are in the deployed position. The lens barrel and twist ring are switchable between the two positions by manual movement of an actuator .","The actuator  of the deployment apparatus  has a grip  and a slide . The grip  is accessible from the outside of the body  and can include a raised handhold (as shown) and\/or one or more features for easier manipulation by the user, such as knurling or other texturing. The grip  is movable back and forth within a recess  in the front cover . The grip  has a connector  that protrudes through an opening  in the recess . In the embodiment of , the opening is centered within the recess  and is fully overlapped by the grip . This provides light locking and deters entry of dirt and debris. The travel of the grip  is limited by the length of the recess . Travel can be limited by the length of the opening within the recess , but this may be esthetically unappealing, in that the fit of the grip  in the cover may look sloppy to the user.","The actuator  is disposed against an actuator base  that adjoins the guide  of the lens module . The actuator base  can be part of the frame , or a separate piece, or integral with the guide  or mount  of the support . For example, the actuator base  and guide  can be parts of a one-piece plastic casting. This is convenient in that the alignment of the deployment apparatus  with the lens barrel is, to a large extent, a function of the physical positioning of the actuator base  alongside the guide . In particular embodiments, the guide  is hooked to the mount  and the actuator base  and mount  are both hooked to the frame  to reduce the risk of flexure of one part relative to another during use.","The slide  of the actuator  rests against the actuator base  and is movable reciprocally on the actuator base . The slide  can have a stepped shape (see FIG. ), in which a lower step  rides in a trough  in the actuator base . A rib  extends outward from the lower step . The rib  extends transverse to the direction of movement of the actuator . The rib  has a pair of opposed faces ,. A transition  adjoins the lower step  and slopes upward to an upper step . The upper step  rides against a shelf  of the actuator base . The shelf  and trough  are flat where the slide  is in contact, but could be modified to reduce friction. The region  of the actuator base  between the trough  and the shelf  is cut away to provide clearance for the transition.","The actuator base  includes a pair of flanges ,. (See .) The first flange  overlaps a groove  adjoining the trough  in the actuator base . A similar groove  adjoins the sloped region  of the actuator base . The second flange  overlaps the second groove . The lower step  of the slide  has a tang  that is shaped so as to fit in the first groove . The upper step  of the slide  has a similar tang  that fits in the second groove . The end of the trough  is open and the slide  can flex slightly. This allows the slide  to be slid under the flanges , during assembly of the camera .","A pawl-arm  has a flexible arm that terminates in a pawl. The pawl-arm  is joined to the upper step  of the slide . A detent rib  protrudes outward from the actuator base . The pawl-arm  rides against the detent rib  and resiliently biases the actuator  toward the primary and secondary positions and away from intermediate positions between the primary and secondary positions. The pawl-arm  and detent rib  together provide an actuator over-center mechanism . This over-center mechanism  acts in concert with a second or drive over-center mechanism .","The upper step  of the slide  has a fitting  that receives the connector  of the grip . In the embodiment shown, the grip  is snap fit into a hole in the upper step  of the slide . This is convenient, because the grip  is held in place without the use of additional parts and the camera  is easy to assemble. Alternative approaches for attaching parts are well-known to those of skill in the art.","The actuator base  has an outwardly extending post  and a drive unit seat . The drive unit seat  and post  are offset from each other. A drive unit  is seated in the drive unit seat  and is pivotable about a drive axis  (shown in ) that extends through the seat . The drive unit  and drive unit seat  can fit in the manner of a hub and axle; however, it is convenient to provide a snap fit, in which the drive unit seat  is a rimmed hole and the drive unit  has a snap connector , as shown in some of the figures.","The drive unit  has a gear wheel  having circumferential teeth. A post  extends upward near the periphery of the gear wheel . The drive unit  has a pair of downwardly extending stops , that extend downward from the gear wheel , near the periphery of the gear wheel . The post  and stops , can be radially positioned differently, but the peripheral position shown maximizes drive unit  movement, for a given gear wheel  size. The post  and stops , can be moved further out radially on extensions (not shown), but this may complicate assembly of the device. The gear wheel  overlaps the slide . This reduces space requirements of the deployment apparatus.","The stops , extend downward from the gear wheel , to an extent that the stops , can interfere with the rib  during movement of the actuator . The stops , are spaced apart from each other. This separation can be varied but is, desirably, greater than 180 degrees in the directions of travel of the drive unit . In the deployment apparatus shown in , this separation of the stops , is 270 degrees in the direction of movement of the drive unit . Angles of less than 180 degrees can be used, but for a given travel of a deployable component, require use of a larger gear wheel . This decreases the compactness that is a benefit of the deployment apparatus described here.","In use, the gear wheel  does not have to have a complete circle of teeth. For example, in the embodiment of , the teeth in the 90 degree arc between the two stops , are non-functional could be eliminated. A complete circle of teeth, although non-functional in the finished device, can be beneficial during assembly, since the drive unit  can be put in place in a random orientation and can then be rotated in either direction until a correct orientation is reached. The deployable component is then assembled with the drive unit  after the correct orientation has been reached.","The twist ring  is toothed to match the movement of the drive unit , that is, the teeth are complementary to the functional teeth of the drive unit .","In the embodiment of , the drive over-center mechanism  is mounted to the actuator base  and the drive unit . The drive over-center mechanism  has an over-center spring  having a loop , at the end of each of two opposed arms. The first loop  is fitted over the post  of the drive unit . A second loop  is fitted over the post  of the actuator base . The over-center spring  biases the drive unit  and enmeshed twist ring , toward the nearer of the retracted and extended orientations and away from in-between orientations.","Other types of over-center mechanisms can be used in place of those disclosed here. For example, the pawl-arm  and detent rib  can be replaced by an over-center spring like the one illustrated. (Posts can be added to the actuator base  and slider to hold respective loops of the over-center spring.)","Timing relationships of the actuator , drive unit , and over-center mechanisms , during forward movement of the deployable member  to the deployed position are illustrated in FIG. . An equivalent diagram could be provided for the reverse movement by interchanging directional terms and \u201cfirst\u201d and \u201csecond\u201d.  illustrates a generalized deployment apparatus, but can be related to the the embodiment of , by assigning the terms \u201cfirst end orientation\u201d and \u201cprimary position\u201d to the drive unit orientation and actuator position shown in FIG.  and the terms \u201csecond end orientation\u201d and \u201csecondary position\u201d to the drive unit orientation and actuator  position shown in FIG. . The \u201cforward\u201d direction is then from \u201cfirst\u201d toward \u201csecond\u201d and the \u201crearward\u201d direction from \u201csecond\u201d toward \u201cfirst\u201d.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00073","num":"00073"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["60","116","60","116","106","60","108","116"]},"The switching of the lens barrel between retracted and extended positions begins with the user pushing the grip  of the actuator . This moves the actuator  out of the primary position and toward the secondary position.","To initially move the actuator , the user must overcome the biasing by the over-center mechanisms ,. The amount of biasing provided decreases for each over-center mechanism at a trip point, after which biasing is provided in the opposite direction. The term \u201ceffectively non-biasing\u201d is used herein to refer to a level of biasing that is within a few multiples of the force required to overcome friction and more respective parts past each other. The over-center mechanisms discussed herein are effectively non-biasing at respective trip points, that is, when the force applied causes biasing by the over-center mechanism to reverse. An over-center spring, like the drive over-center mechanism shown in the drawings, abruptly transitions at the trip point. The pawl-arm  and detent rib  of the actuator over-center mechanism  transitions slowly.","While the actuator  moves away from the primary position, the first face  of the rib  of the actuator  pushes against the first stop  of the drive unit . This causes the drive unit  to pivot through the first range of intermediate orientations toward the middle orientation. This pivoting is opposed by the actuator over-center mechanism  and the drive over-center mechanism .","Movement of the actuator  continues until the middle range of conformations is reached. At this point, the biasing by the actuator over-center mechanism  changes over to biasing toward the secondary position. This forward biasing by the actuator over-center mechanism  is opposite in direction from the continuing biasing by the drive over-center mechanism .","When the middle orientation of the drive unit  is reached, the drive over-center mechanism  changes over and biases in a forward direction toward pivoting of the drive unit  to the second end orientation. At this point, biasing by both over-center mechanisms , is in the same direction. The actuator  continues to move until the secondary position is reached and the actuator  stops , moving. The drive unit  continues moving forward under the forward biasing of the drive over-center mechanism . The drive unit , in the illustrated embodiment, moves independently of the actuator  after the middle orientation is reached. This results in the first stop  of the drive unit  moving away from the first face  of the rib  of the actuator . The biasing of the drive over-center mechanism  pivots the drive unit  through the second range of intermediate orientations to the second end orientation. The actuator  remains in the secondary position. During the continued pivoting of the drive unit , the second stop  of the drive unit  comes around and reaches the second face  of the rib .","The movement of the actuator initially stores energy in the over-center mechanisms , and then releases that energy to pivot the drive unit  over a greater range than would be available with the actuator  simply pushing the drive unit . In the charging and discharging, the actuator over-center mechanism  levels off, to some extent, the effort required of the user in charging the drive over-center mechanism .","The over-center mechanisms , can be changed to modify timing and the effort required of the user at particular times. For example, the same kind of over-center spring  can be used in both over-center mechanisms. This would increase user effort during part of the initial range of conformations, but effort in the middle range would be reduced. The actuator over-center mechanism would, in effect, trip the drive over-center mechanism. The actuator over-center mechanism can also be modified to provide more biasing than the drive over-center mechanism. This would cause the actuator  to move with the drive unit  in middle conformations between the middle orientation of the drive unit  and the secondary position of the actuator .","The movement of the lens barrel between positions can be delimited by the stops or by both the stops and the support or other feature or by only the supporter other feature. In the first two cases, the stops engage the faces of the rib in limit positions. In the latter case, the stops are spaced from the rib in the limit positions.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00082","num":"00082"},"figref":"FIGS. 17-18","b":["10","14","132","136","132","14","12","134","14"],"i":["b ","b ","b ","b. "]},"The features of the invention can be modified to meet particular requirements. For example, a pivotable lens turret (not shown), located within the lens barrel can pivot between two positions in tandem with the movement of the lens barrel between retracted and extended positions.","The invention has been described in detail with particular reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof, but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The above-mentioned and other features and objects of this invention and the manner of attaining them will become more apparent and the invention itself will be better understood by reference to the following description of an embodiment of the invention taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00021","num":"00021"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00022","num":"00022"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00023","num":"00023"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00024","num":"00024"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00025","num":"00025"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00026","num":"00026"},"figref":"FIG. 6","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00027","num":"00027"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00028","num":"00028"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 7"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00029","num":"00029"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00030","num":"00030"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":"1"},"The outer subunit of the actuator is shown by dashed lines.",{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00032","num":"00032"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00033","num":"00033"},"figref":"FIG. 12","b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00034","num":"00034"},"figref":"FIG. 13","b":"12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00035","num":"00035"},"figref":"FIG. 14","b":"12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00036","num":"00036"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":"12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00037","num":"00037"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00038","num":"00038"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"P-00039","num":"00039"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 17"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
