---
title: Systems and methods for providing television signals using a network interface device
abstract: An isolation device isolates a transport medium internal to a customer premises from a transport medium external to the customer premises such that operational changes to one of the internal and external transport media do not affect the other of the internal and external transport media. A first interface communicates with the external transport medium and a second interface communicates with the internal transport medium. An addressable set-top box external to the customer premises receives encoded telecommunication information from the external transport medium and generates television signals from the encoded telecommunication information for transmission over the internal transport medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08713617&OS=08713617&RS=08713617
owner: Qwest Communications International Inc.
number: 08713617
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030522
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/367,597, entitled \u201cSYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING APPLICATION SERVICES VIA A NETWORK INTERFACE DEVICE,\u201d filed Feb. 14, 2003 by Steven M. Casey et al.; is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/356,364, entitled \u201cPACKET NETWORK INTERFACE DEVICE AND SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ITS USE,\u201d filed Jan. 31, 2003 by Bruce A. Phillips et al.; is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/356,688, entitled \u201cSYSTEMS, METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING A PLURALITY OF TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES,\u201d filed Jan. 31, 2003 by Bruce A. Phillips et al.; and is a continuation-in-part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/356,338, entitled \u201cCONFIGURABLE NETWORK INTERFACE DEVICE AND SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ITS USE,\u201d filed Jan. 31, 2003 by Bruce A. Phillips et al., the entire disclosure of each of which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes. These applications are sometimes referred to collectively herein as \u201cthe parent applications.\u201d","This application relates generally to telecommunication systems. More specifically, this application relates to methods and systems for providing television signals using a network interface device.","Currently, many television services are providing using set-top boxes, which are devices configured to decode incoming signals for transmission to the television, sometimes in accordance with terms of a user subscription. The use of such set-top boxes is especially dominant in applications providing digital television signals, but is also used in many applications providing analog television signals as well. For example, a user may have a subscription agreement with a cable-television provider to receive a premium television channel that is not accessible to customers who have not paid for the subscription agreement. The signal for that premium channel is transmitted uniformly to customers, but in an encoded form that may be decoded only by those set-top boxes that have been instructed to do so. In a similar manner, set-top boxes are often used to provide programming on a pay-per-view basis, with a signal for a particular program being decoded only when a user has agreed to pay the associated fee for viewing that program. In other applications, set-top boxes may be used to provide a user interface between a user's television and the Internet by incorporating a browser module within the set-top box. As their name implies, set-top boxes are typically provided as integrated devices adapted to rest on top of television sets, with connections between the set-top box and television allowing transmission of information between them.","While set-top boxes are thus useful because of the diverse range of services, including individualized services, that may be provided to users, the need for each user to have a set-top box is a significant deterrent to their use. Many users do not have set-top boxes because they are inconvenient to acquire from the programming provider. Usually, an individual needs to stay at home when the set-top box is delivered so that it can be installed by a technician. Sometimes, an individual may alternatively pick up a set-top box at an outlet of the programming provider, but must do so when the outlet is open and must perform the installation himself. This inconvenience is then repeated when the user moves or otherwise decides to discontinue the service. Furthermore, in some instances, individuals simply dislike the clutter of still another device peripheral to the operation of their television, in addition to a DVD player, VCR, and the like.","The inconvenience of having to use a set-top box is exacerbated further in locations where there are relatively high turnover rates of residents. For example, the length of an individual's stay in a hotel, apartment, or other large-turnover residence may be sufficiently short that the individual decides not to subscribe to services because of the inconveniences associated with the set-top box.","There is accordingly a general need in the art for improved methods and systems of providing television signals.","Embodiments of the invention thus provide a network interface device that improves providing television signals. An isolation device is adapted to isolate a transport medium internal to a customer premises from a transport medium external to the customer premises such that operational changes to one of the internal and external transport media do not affect the other of the internal and external transport media. A first interface is coupled with the isolation device and adapted to communicate with the external transport medium, which is in communication with a distribution point. A second interface is coupled with the isolation device and adapted to communicate with the internal transport medium. An addressable set-top box is disposed external to the customer premises and coupled with the first and second interfaces. The set-top box is adapted to receive encoded telecommunication information from the external transport medium and to generate television signals from the encoded telecommunication information for transmission over the internal transport medium. In some embodiments, the network interface device may be disposed on an exterior wall of the customer premises.","In certain embodiments, an addressable application device is also coupled with the first and second interfaces and adapted to implement a supplementary application over the internal transport medium with telecommunication information received from the external transport medium. In other embodiments, a third interface may be coupled with the isolation device and adapted to communicate with a second transport medium external to the customer premises. In such instances, an addressable application device may be coupled with the third and second interfaces and adapted to implement a supplementary application over the internal transport medium with telecommunication information received from the second external transport medium. In either of these sets of embodiments, the addressable set-top box and addressable application device may be disposed within a common housing.","Different types of telecommunication information may be accommodated in different embodiments. For example, in one embodiment, the encoded telecommunication information comprises encoded digital telecommunication information. In such an embodiment, the addressable set-top box comprises a digital decoder adapted to decode the encoded digital telecommunication information. In another embodiment, the encoded telecommunication information comprises encoded IP telecommunication information. In this embodiment, the addressable set-top box comprises an IP decoder adapted to decode the encoded IP telecommunication information. In some embodiments, the addressable set-top box may further comprise a buffer data store.","In some instances, a plurality of addressable set-top boxes may conveniently be used to accommodate multi-dwelling units such as apartment buildings or hotels. In one such embodiment, the internal transport medium thus comprises a plurality of transport media internal to a plurality of respective customer premises. The second interface comprises a plurality of second interfaces coupled with the isolation device, each of which may be adapted to communicate with a respective one of the internal transport media. The addressable set-top box comprises a plurality of addressable set-top boxes, each of which is coupled with the first interface and with a respective one of the second interfaces. Each addressable set-top box is adapted to receive encoded telecommunication information from the external transport medium and to generate television signals from the encoded telecommunication information for transmission over the respective one of the internal transport media. The plurality of customer premises may be located within a common physical structure, in which case the network interface may be disposed on an exterior wall of the common physical structure or within the common physical structure but external to each of the respective customer premises in different embodiments.","In other embodiments, a method provides television signals. A transport medium internal to a customer premises is isolated from a transport medium external to the customer premises such that operational changes to one of the internal and external transport media do not affect the other of the internal and external transport media. Encoded telecommunication information is received from the external transport medium. The encoded telecommunication information is decoded with an addressable set-top box disposed external to the customer premises. The television signals are generated from the decoded telecommunication information and transmitted to the internal transport medium for display on a television within the customer premises.","In some embodiments, an instruction is received to change a state of the addressable set-top box and the state is changed in accordance with the received instruction. In other embodiments, a supplementary application is implemented over the internal transport medium with telecommunication information received from the external transport medium. In further embodiments, telecommunication information is received from a second transport medium external to the customer premises and a supplementary application is implemented over the internal transport medium with the telecommunication information received from the second external transport medium. The encoded telecommunication information may include such information as encoded digital telecommunication information or encoded IP telecommunication information. In one embodiment the television signals may be stored with a buffer data store comprised by the set-top box. In still other embodiments, telecommunication information may be decoded with a plurality of set-top boxes and respective television signals transmitted to respective ones of a plurality of transport media internal to respective ones of a plurality of customer premises.","1. Introduction","Embodiments of the invention are directed to methods and systems for providing television signals using a network interface device that includes an external set-top box (\u201cESTB\u201d). As used herein, the terms \u201cexternal set-top box\u201d and \u201cESTB\u201d are intentionally analogized with a traditional set-top box because they may perform similar functionality to a traditional set-top box, although in some embodiments the functionality extends beyond what may be performed using a traditional set-top box. The term is not intended to connote that the \u201cexternal set-top box\u201d or \u201cESTB\u201d is to be disposed on top of a television set. Instead, according to embodiments of the invention, the \u201cexternal set-top box\u201d or \u201cESTB\u201d is disposed external to a customer premises as defined below, and may be specifically associated with a network interface device (\u201cNID\u201d), detailed descriptions of which are also provided below for specific embodiments. In some instances, the \u201cexternal set-top box\u201d or \u201cESTB\u201d may be embedded within the NID. Furthermore, the NID may be configured in some embodiments to provide additional application services supplementary to those provided with the \u201cexternal set-top box\u201d or \u201cESTB\u201d. The scope of such supplementary application services may be broad, and includes such examples as may be broadly classified as including communications application services, informational application services, diagnostic application services, monitoring application services, and data storage application services, among others. Several specific examples of supplementary application services that may be provided are discussed in greater detail below.","In embodiments of the invention, the NID is capable of interfacing between a customer premises and a telecommunication service provider's network. In some instances the interfacing capability of the NID may additionally include a \u201cdemarcation capability,\u201d which is described in further detail below with specific examples of how the demarcation capabilities arise in different embodiments. In some instances, the NID may additionally include other capabilities, including, for example, the capability to separate received telecommunication information into discrete sets; the capability to process certain of the separated sets independently from other sets; and\/or the capability to transmit different of the separated sets to different locations, perhaps through the use of different interfaces.","In describing embodiments of the invention, references to \u201ccustomer premises\u201d are intended to refer to physical structures under the control of a customer through ownership, leasehold, or any other property right. The term is not intended to encompass open real property external to the physical structures, even if such open real property is also under the control of the customer. Such a definition reflects differences in accessibility to the physical structures and surrounding open real property. Access to the physical structures generally requires the presence of the customer or a representative of the customer, while access to the surrounding open real property may be obtained by permission from customer, through an easement, or by other means that does not require the physical presence of the customer. Thus, for example, in the case of a residential customer, the customer premises may correspond to the customer's home, but does not include the yard surrounding the home. Access to the yard may be obtained even when the customer is not home, such as when the customer is at work, is shopping, or is otherwise unavailable to be physically present.","In the case of multiple-dwelling units (\u201cMDU\u201d), each dwelling unit may correspond to a distinct customer premises. In such cases, the MDU defines a plurality of customer premises, which may sometimes be located within a single physical structure, such as in the case of an apartment building or hotel MDU. There may be locations within the single physical structure that do not correspond to customer premises because they are not under the control of the customer, but are rather under the control of another party such as a landlord or hotel management. Similar to the yard example above, accessibility of such locations may be provided even when the customer is not present, such as through permission of the other party.","As used herein, the term \u201ctelecommunication information\u201d is broadly defined to include any information that can be transmitted or carried by a telecommunication service provider's network (e.g., the Public Switched Telephone Network or \u201cPSTN\u201d) or by any other telecommunication network, including but not limited to the Internet. Such information includes, for example, voice signals (e.g., Plain Old Telephone Service or \u201cPOTS,\u201d as the term is known to those skilled in the art), audio and video signals (encoded in any standard and\/or proprietary, digital and\/or analog format now known or hereafter developed, using any of a variety of means known to those skilled in the art, such as HDTV, NTSC, PAL, and SECAM formatting, as well as, for example any of the MPEG digital encoding and\/or compression algorithms), and data. Such data can be formatted according any of a variety of protocols familiar in the art, including in particular the Internet Protocol.","In this application, the term \u201ctelecommunication service provider\u201d refers to any entity that provides telecommunication service to a customer's premises, including, merely by way of example, incumbent local exchange carriers, competitive local exchange carriers, cable television carriers, and satellite providers, to name a few. In contrast, the term \u201ctelecommunication information provider,\u201d means any entity that is capable of serving as a source of telecommunication information. In many cases, a particular entity may be considered both a telecommunication service provider and a telecommunication information provider, for instance, when a local exchange carrier provides Internet service to a customer, as well as the external transport medium attached to that customer's premises. In other cases, the two may be separate entities. For instance, according to certain embodiments of the invention, a cable television provider could contract with a local exchange carrier to provide broadcast television signals to a customer premises using the local exchange carrier's network and\/or an external transport medium operated by the local exchange carrier.","The term \u201ctelecommunication information set\u201d is intended to describe a discrete subset of the telecommunication information transmitted across a particular transport medium and\/or received by a device having demarcation capabilities. Generally, the telecommunication information that is classified part of a particular information set shares a common characteristic. Merely by way of example, an information set can comprise telecommunication information of a particular type, such as voice, IP data, encoded video, and such; information associated with a particular application, such as information assigned to a specific IP port, as is known in the art; information addressed to or received from a particular device or network segment; information received within a particular reception window; and the like.","In certain embodiments, demarcation capabilities can support the one-way flow of telecommunication information, such as exemplified by the case of a simple set top box, which can receive data representing a video signal, decode that data, and transmit a video signal to an attached television. In other embodiments, demarcation capabilities can support bidirectional flow of telecommunication information. In still other embodiments, the demarcation capability can support both unidirectional and bidirectional information flows simultaneously, depending on the type of telecommunication information transmitted or the source of the information.","The demarcation capabilities may also function to isolate the telecommunication service provider's network from the network at the customer premises. As described in detail below, the service provider's network is one example of an \u201cexternal transport medium\u201d and the customer's network is one example of an \u201cinternal transport medium.\u201d The external transport medium and internal transport medium are each examples of a \u201ctransport medium,\u201d which is used herein to describe any cable, wire, or other medium capable of carrying telecommunication information, including, but not limited to, twisted pair copper wiring (shielded or unshielded, including, for example, unshielded cables complying with industry-standard categories 3, 5, 5e and 6), optical fiber, and coaxial cable. Other examples of transport media include universal serial bus (\u201cUSB\u201d) cable, cable complying with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers' (\u201cIEEE\u201d) 1394 standard, as well as any medium capable of complying with the many local-area networking standards known in the art. The preceding are examples of transport media that comprise physical media, but the invention is not limited to the use of physical media. In other embodiments, a transport medium may comprise any of a wide variety of wireless transmissions, including infra-red transmissions, radio frequency (\u201cRF\u201d) transmissions, and transmissions complying with standards developed by any of the IEEE's working groups governing wireless communication (e.g., the 802.11, 802.15, 802.16 and 802.20 working groups), as well as point-to-point microwave, satellite, cellular\/PCS, and\/or ultra wideband transmissions, among others.","In certain embodiments, demarcation capabilities can define an active demarcation point, serving to isolate the external transport medium from the internal transport medium (perhaps via an isolation device, discussed below), such that operational changes in one network do not affect the other network. \u201cOperational changes\u201d can include any changes in the structure, topology, format, protocol, bandwidth, media, and\/or other operational parameters of a network. This isolation feature can provide many benefits; for instance, the demarcation capability can be realized by a disclosed interface between a customer premises and a provider's network, allowing the provider to implement changes in its network without disrupting the service provided to the customer.","Likewise, the isolation of the internal transport medium from the external transport medium can allow for any variety of customer premises equipment (\u201cCPE\u201d) to be used at the customer premises without fear that the equipment might be incompatible with a particular telecommunication service provider's standards. \u201cCustomer premises equipment\u201d and \u201cCPE\u201d are intended to refer to any device that sends, receives, or otherwise utilizes telecommunication information. Moreover, the demarcation capabilities might serve to couple a plurality of external and\/or internal transport media, allowing interoperation among them all, and to provide the same isolation features among all of these media.","In this way, certain aspects of the demarcation capabilities can allow for sales of a wide variety of CPE on a consumer electronics model, instead of the proprietary model necessitated by many of today's telecommunication networks, where, for example, differing implementations of xDSL among providers virtually force consumers to purchase modems from the providers to ensure compatibility between the modem and the provider's xDSL implementation. By isolating the topologies of the external and internal transport media, embodiments of the present invention can create a disclosed interface between the provider's network and the customer's network, allowing much greater flexibility in both the provider's networking options and the customer's choice of telecommunication appliances. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and many other benefits result from embodiments of the invention.","In accordance with other embodiments, the isolation abilities also allow insulation between different transport media coupled to the internal and external transport media in order. This may permit, for example, preventing unwanted telecommunication information of one network from entering the other network. For instance, a demarcation capability of a network interface system in accordance with particular embodiments can serve to prevent propagation of certain telecommunication information from an internal network (including particular signals or frequencies) into one or more external transport media, preventing interference in the internal transport medium from interfering with the telecommunication service provider's network. In similar fashion, demarcation capabilities can prevent the contamination of the internal transport medium with unwanted information from the external medium, interference between two or more external transport media coupled, and unwanted interference or crosstalk between multiple internal media.","In some embodiments, the isolation of the internal transport medium from the external transport medium resulting from the demarcation capabilities also allows enhanced security to be provided for the customer and\/or to control customer access to certain features or services. For instance, those skilled in the art will recognize that demarcation capabilities can prevent unauthorized access to the customer's data network, such as by a telecommunication service provider and\/or a third party, or can screen or filter telecommunication information entering or leaving the customer's premises. This enables features such as parental controls to be placed on incoming and outgoing information, as well as filtering of outgoing sensitive information, such as credit card information and the like.","Further, according to certain embodiments, the demarcation capabilities may be used to define a consolidation point for all telecommunication information entering or leaving the customer premises. Definition of such a consolidation point permits a variety of enhanced features to be provided to the entire premises, including features such as caller identification, premises-wide telephone, video and data distribution, content on demand, including video, audio, and\/or data on demand, and the like. These and other features resulting from demarcation capabilities also allow for a variety of new and useful telecommunication applications to be provided to customers. Specific details of some exemplary applications are discussed below; given the disclosure herein, those skilled in the art can appreciate the wide variety of such applications that are possible using various embodiments of the invention.","In a number of embodiments, the demarcation capability is applied specifically to a customer premises, thereby separating a transport medium internal to the customer premises from a transport medium external to the customer premises. Moreover, the demarcation is exploited to provide the ESTB, perhaps with supplementary addressable application devices in a configuration that permits ESTB and perhaps other services to be provided to the entire premises. For example, the ESTB and other addressable application devices may be disposed external to the customer premises, as may be one or more processors. The ESTB and other addressable application devices may be adapted to interface with the transport medium internal to the customer premises, and the processors may be adapted to selectively process telecommunication information originating from the transport medium external to the customer premises. ESTB and other applications may be implemented through transmission of the processed telecommunication information from the processors to the ESTB and other addressable application devices. Not only does such a configuration permit applications to service the entire premises, disposing the ESTB and other addressable application devices external to the customer premises makes them easily accessible by technicians as need for service or to change their operational states.","2. Organizational Configurations","There are numerous organizational configurations that may be used- in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Several examples are shown schematically in , although such examples are not intended to be exhaustive. A relatively simple arrangement is shown in , which illustrates a configuration  for providing television signals using an ESTB. The configuration  includes a distribution point  in communication with a device  having demarcation capabilities via an external transport medium . In this example, the external transport medium  comprises a transport medium external to a customer premises . The device  is shown in  as including an ESTB  adapted to interface with an internal transport medium . In this example, the internal transport medium  comprises a transport medium internal to the customer premises . While the ESTB  is shown as part of the demarcation device , this is not a requirement. In other instances, the ESTB  may be distinct from, but coupled with, the demarcation device , such as by using a modular design with plug-and-play technology. Other examples discussed below illustrate different ways in which the demarcation and ESTB devices  and  may be configured as integrated or separate devices. For convenience, however, the combination of the demarcation  device and ESTB  is sometimes referred to in a particular embodiment as an \u201cset-top-box network interface device\u201d (\u201cSNID\u201d)  irrespective of whether they are integrated or separate.","In some embodiments discussed below, an SNID may correspond to one of a plurality of \u201capplication network interface devices\u201d (\u201cANIDs\u201d) that may be provided. An ANID corresponds generally to a combination of a network interface device and an application device, of which the ESTB  may be considered to be an example. As such, an SNID may be considered to correspond specifically to an ANID that includes an ESTB as one of its application devices.","In one sense, the distribution point  may be considered to be a source of telecommunication information transmitted to the customer premises and a recipient of telecommunication information transmitted from the customer premises; as described below, however, the distribution point  need not be either the ultimate source nor the ultimate recipient of telecommunication information. In certain embodiments, the distribution point  may correspond to a telecommunication service provider's local office. In other embodiments, the distribution point may correspond to another network element in the service provider's network, such as a remote termination cabinet and\/or a digital subscriber line access multiplier (\u201cDSLAM\u201d). More generally, the distribution point  may correspond to any facility operated by a telecommunication service provider that is capable of transmitting telecommunication information to, and\/or receiving telecommunication information from, a customer premises .","In general, distribution points can be classified, inter alia, as discrete distribution points or complex distribution points. With respect to a particular information set, a discrete distribution point often transmits only the necessary or desired information to the SNID . In contrast, a complex distribution point can transmit the entire information set to the SNID . The contrast may be illustrated with regard to video distribution: A discrete distribution point may perform channel switching (at the request of the demarcation device ), encoding and sending only the desired channel information to the demarcation device . In contrast, a complex distribution point might rely upon the demarcation device  to perform all channel switching. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that each scheme presents relative advantages and disadvantages.","Distribution point  can be capable of transmitting and\/or receiving any type of telecommunication information to\/from the SNID , and such telecommunication information can be organized into a plurality of telecommunication information sets, as necessary. For ease of description,  does not show any additional sources or recipients of telecommunication information in communication with distribution point , but, those skilled in the art will recognize that, in many embodiments, distribution point  can be coupled to multiple customer premises  (perhaps via an SNID  at each customer premises) and often is neither the ultimate source nor the ultimate recipient of telecommunication information. Instead, distribution point  usually serves as an intermediary between one or more customer premises  and one or more larger telecommunication networks and\/or telecommunication information providers, which, as discussed above, can include cable television networks, telephone networks, data networks, and the like. Further, many such networks (as well as, in some embodiments, distribution point ) can be coupled to the Internet, so that distribution point  can serve as a gateway between customer premises  and any source and\/or recipient of telecommunication information that has a connection to the Internet. The interconnection of telecommunication networks is well known in the art, although it is specifically noted that distribution point  can be configured to transmit telecommunication information to (and receive telecommunication information from) virtually any source or recipient of telecommunication information, through either direct or indirect (e.g., through the Internet) communication. Merely by way of example, a distribution point  can transmit video signals received from a television programming provider to customer premises equipment, as described in the applications referenced above. In other embodiments, distribution point  can be in communication with one or more other customer locations, allowing for private virtual circuits, vlan tags and wavelengths, or rf connections between customer premises  and those locations.","In configuration , the SNID  can serve as the interface between external transport medium  and customer premises . As shown in , usually both the demarcation device  and the  comprised by the SNID  are interfaced with the internal transport medium , with the demarcation device interfaced with the external transport medium , although other interfacing configurations are also within the scope of the invention. For example, the ESTB  may additionally be interfaced with the external transport medium . The ESTB  may also include a service interface  for addressing the ESTB . The service interface  may comprise a physical interface, such as a universal serial bus (\u201cUSB\u201d), FireWire (IEEE 1394), registered jack 11 (\u201cRJ-11\u201d), registered jack 13 (\u201cRJ-13\u201d), registered-jack 45 (\u201cRJ-45\u201d), serial, coax, or other physical interface known to those of skill in the art. In other embodiments, the service interface  may comprise a logical interface, such as may be provided through a logical connection with an IP address.","As conceptually illustrated in , demarcation device  and\/or ESTB  may be attached to an external wall of the customer premises . Such attachment may be performed of an integrated SNID  or may be performed with the components separately of a separated SNID . Such a configuration provides many advantages. For instance, if the telecommunication service provider desires to upgrade or otherwise change its network, including, perhaps, external transport medium , a technician can perform any necessary changes at demarcation device  and\/or ESTB  as appropriate without entering the customer premises. Coupled with the ability of some demarcation devices  to isolate the telecommunication service provider's network from the customer's premises, this can allow the telecommunication service provider to effect substantial changes in it network without impacting or inconveniencing the customer in any respect. This could, for example, allow the telecommunication service provider to upgrade external transmission medium  from a copper twisted pair to optical fiber, without requiring any topological changes inside the customer premises . In addition, disposing the set-top box in a secure fashion external to the customer premises precludes removal or tampering with the set-top box, and simplifies implementing changes of service such as may occur when tenants of the customer premises change. Of course, demarcation device  and\/or ESTB  may be located at a variety of alternative locations, and, as previously noted, an SNID  may also be divided, with different portions situated at different locations, according to the requirements of the implementation.","The ESTB  is configured so that it may communicate with CPE , which may include a television device and may be located interior to the customer premises through internal transport medium . Such communication is used to implement the ESTB  functionality with the CPE  in accordance with telecommunication information received from the distribution point . In addition, the demarcation device  may communicate directly with CPE  to implement other functions, including functions that may be defined by other applications comprised by the demarcation device . While the internal transport medium  may comprise any of the media discussed above, in one embodiment it comprises existing wiring in customer premises  and, in some embodiments, is capable of carrying voice, data, and video information. For instance, as described in Edward H. Frank and Jack Holloway, \u201cConnecting the Home with a Phone Line Network Chip Set,\u201d IEEE Micro (IEEE, March-April 2000), which is incorporated herein by reference, the Home Phoneline Networking Alliance (\u201cHPNA\u201d) standards allow for simultaneous transmission of both voice information and Ethernet frames across twisted-pair copper telephone wiring. In addition to the transmission of telecommunication information through the SNID , either directly from the demarcation device  or through the ESTB , telecommunication information may be transmitted via the reverse path to the distribution point . Such telecommunication information received at the distribution point  may be transmitted to an information recipient, such as a service provider. For example, such a transmission may be used to request a pay-per-view movie or the like. Alternatively, telecommunication information received at the distribution point  may be transmitted across the Internet, such as may be used in the case of sending an email message where the ESTB  supports Internet functionality.","In certain embodiments, the SNID  can receive state information from a control point , which is shown in the illustrated embodiment as associated with distribution point . In certain instances, control point  can be software and\/or hardware operated by a telecommunication service provider for controlling certain features of the operation of the SNID . For instance, control point  can instruct the SNID  to provide (or cease to provide) particular applications and\/or telecommunication services with the ESTB  to the customer premises . Control point  can also provide other directions to the SNID  through the demarcation device , including, for instance, instructions to save or record a particular information set (e.g., data representing a movie), such that the information set may quickly (and, in some cases), repeatedly be transmitted to customer premises , allowing the provision of voice, data, video, etc. on demand.","Often, it may be beneficial to allow the customer to provide state information to the SNID . Thus, in certain embodiments, control point  may have a web interface, such that the customer or any authorized person, such as an employee of the telecommunication service provider or telecommunication information provider, may log onto the web interface and configure options for the SNID , perhaps resulting in state commands being transmitted from the distribution point  to the SNID . In other embodiments, control point  can be a web interface to the SNID  itself, allowing the customer or other authorized person to configure the SNID  directly. In still other embodiments, control point  can communicate with the SNID  through an application programming interface (\u201cAPI\u201d). Hence, in some embodiments, control point  can interface with the SNID  through an API.","In many such embodiments, the API corresponds to the service interface  of the application device. In embodiments where the service interface  comprises a logical interface, the API can include a set of software, hardware, or firmware routines or libraries that may be invoked programmatically to configure or relay information to the ESTB . In that sense, then, control point  can be understood to be a program running on a computer, perhaps located at distribution point  or customer premises , among other locations, that provides state information to the ESTB  via a software API.","In other embodiments where the service interface  comprises a physical interface such as those described above, the APT may be accessed locally, such as by a service technician. For example, the service technician could visit property outside the customer premises  or a utility room in an MDU that is external to individual customer premises , attach a laptop computer or other device to the physical service interface , and upload information to the ESTB , including state information and perhaps other telecommunication information. In still other embodiments, the ESTB  can accept state information through other means, including, for example, through a web interface by receiving a specially formatted electronic message. This is especially the case in embodiments where the ESTB  is capable of acting as a web server, as discussed below.","The addressability of the ESTB  may be used in various embodiments to change the state of the ESTB . Such state information can include any set of data or other information that may be interpreted by the ESTB  as defining operational instructions. This includes, for example, commands to process certain information sets in certain ways, e.g., to provide protocol conversion, to allow transmission of the information set, to deny transmission of the information set, to direct transmission on a particular interface, and the like, as well as commands to provide or cease providing a particular service, such as to provide access to a pay-per-view movie. Thus, in certain aspects, a telecommunication service provider can control the services provided to a customer in several ways. First, the provider can only transmit a telecommunication information set to an SNID  if the user of that device is authorized to receive that information set. Alternatively, the service provider could send a plurality of information sets to a customer's SNID , and rely on the state of the component ESTB  to determine access to those information sets that are authorized.","Those skilled in the art will appreciate that certain control methods are more well-suited to certain services than to others. For instance, with respect to cable television services, the same set of information may be broadcast to many households, and the SNID  is well-suited to control access to those services, allowing for greater efficiency in the providing of such services. In contrast, video-on-demand services may instead be controlled at a distribution point  or elsewhere such that a particular SNID  only receives video-on-demand information if the customer already has requested and been authorized to receive that service. In such cases, the SNID  may not need to provide access control functions with respect to that service.","According to some embodiments, the SNID  can implement either of these access control schemes, or both in combination, as well as others. Moreover, the SNID  can, in some cases, be configured to support a plurality of schemes transparently. For instance, the customer could request a service from the SNID , perhaps using one of the methods discussed above, and the SNID  could relay that request to the appropriate telecommunication service provider and\/or telecommunication information provider, as well as reconfigure itself to allow access to that service, if necessary. Of course, the SNID  can also be configured to take any necessary validating or authenticating action, such as notifying the distribution point  and\/or control point  that the service has been requested, and, optionally, receiving a return confirmation that the service has been authorized.","In accordance with other embodiments, state information sent to the SNID  can include one or more commands to interface with a particular CPE in a certain way. State information can further include instructions to modify one or more security settings of the SNID . Merely by way of example, in certain embodiments, the SNID  can include a computer virus scanner, and state information can include updated virus definitions and\/or heuristics. Likewise, the SNID  often will be configured with access controls, such as to prevent unauthorized access through the SNID  by third parties. State information can include instructions on how to deal with particular third-party attempts to access the SNTD  or internal transport medium . Those skilled in the art will recognize as well that some security settings may specify the level of access the customer has to the functions of the SNID , such as to prevent unauthorized use of certain telecommunication services, and that these settings also may be modified by received state information.","There are a variety of ways in which the various access-control and security functionalities of the SNID  discussed above may be implemented. In different embodiments, these functionalities may be performed by the demarcation device , by the ESTB , by a combination of the demarcation and ESTB devices  and , and\/or by still other supplementary application devices that may additionally be comprised by the SNID . Moreover, the state information that manages such functionalities may sometimes be sent periodically to the SNID  to ensure that it is current. Those skilled in the art will also recognize that state information can be considered a subset of the broader category of telecommunication information.","Turning now to , configuration \u2032 is illustrative of certain embodiments that can provide multiple ANIDs at customer premises , at least of which may be an SNID A. In the illustrated embodiment, the SNID A comprises demarcation device A and ESTB A, and another ANID B comprises demarcation device B and application device B. In some embodiments, ANID B may specifically not include an ESTB, so that all set-top-box functions are performed by SNID A, although more generally ANID B could also include an ESTB. In this illustration, the both the ESTB device A and the other application device B are shown as separated from their respective demarcation devices , although one or more of the multiple SNID or ANID may alternatively comprise structures in which they are integrated. In instances where the components are separated, the separate components may both be affixed to an exterior wall of the customer premises . This has the same advantages discussed previously in connection with integrated SNIDs, namely ease of upgrading or otherwise changing the network by a telecommunication service provider. In other instances, the separate components may be provided in different locations, such as by providing the demarcation device A or B at a facility operated by the telecommunication service provider while keeping the ESTB A or other application device B on the exterior wall of the customer premises .","Similar to the configuration of , ESTB A may be in communication with CPE A through internal transport medium A and other application device B may be in communication with CPE B through internal transport medium B. Implementation of the applications provided by ESTB A and application device B can thus be achieved respectively with telecommunication information received and transmitted by demarcation devices A and B. In addition, demarcation device A can be in direct communication with CPE A through internal transport medium A, and demarcation device B can likewise be in direct communication with CPE B through internal transport medium B. Each of the SNID A and ANID B may be provided in communication with a common distribution point  through their respective demarcation devices . In particular, demarcation device B can communicate with distribution point  through external transport medium B which, as illustrated by , can simply be spliced into external transport medium A, such as by using an active or passive splitting device, which could be optical, as in a fiber environment, or electrical. If desired, demarcation devices  and\/or distribution point  can include control logic to prevent unauthorized access by demarcation device A to telecommunication information sent to or received from demarcation device B, and vice versa. In other embodiments, external transport medium B could run directly from demarcation device B to distribution point . In still other embodiments, external transport medium B could be omitted, with demarcation device B coupled to demarcation device A, which could then provide connectivity between demarcation device B and distribution point  through external transport medium A.","Configuration \u2032 can be used in a variety of implementations. For instance, if customer premises  is a multiple-dwelling unit (\u201cMDU\u201d), ANID B could comprise an SNID by including an ESTB as application device B, such that separate SNIDs are provided for each separate resident or family. Alternatively, a single demarcation device, perhaps with more interfaces, can service multiple dwelling or business units. In such implementations, especially when external transport medium B does not directly couple demarcation device B to distribution point , demarcation devices A, B can include security functionality, for example to prevent telecommunication signals intended for CPE A from reaching CPE B and vice versa. In some embodiments, demarcation devices  can provide a variety of such security, encryption, and authentication functions.","The description above provides a specific example of a more general class of embodiments in which multiple SNIDs are daisy-chained together, using any of the telecommunication media discussed herein. This allows a telecommunication service provider to provide service to additional customers without requiring any additional external transport media. Similarly, SNIDs at multiple premises can be coupled together, such that if the external transport medium coupled to one of the SNIDs fails, that device can maintain connectivity to the distribution point through its connection to another SNID. An SNID in accordance with specific embodiments thus may have an interface for securely connecting to one or more additional SNIDs, and thus forming a mesh network of SNIDs and\/or distribution points. This allows a particular SNID to serve as a conduit between another interface device and a distribution point without allowing any unauthorized reception of telecommunication information intended for the connected interface device. This secure interface can be included, for instance, in a portion of the SNID that is inaccessible to customers, as illustrated in  and described below.","In other embodiments, a single customer premises  might have connections to a plurality of telecommunication service providers. For example, turning now to , configuration \u2033 includes a distribution point A coupled to an SNID A via external transport medium A and also includes a second distribution point B coupled to an ANID B via external transport medium B. SNID A provides an example of an SNID that includes a supplementary application device C in addition to the ESTB A. Each of these devices A and C may have a respective service interface A and C, and may be connected with different internal transport media A or C to reflect the different application capabilities. Merely by way of example, distribution point A could, for example, be associated with a cable television provider, while distribution point B could be associated with a telephone company. In addition, configuration \u2033 illustrates that multiple CPE A and C may be coupled with a single SNID A. This may be done with multiple internal transport media A and C as illustrated by , or may alternatively be done through a common internal transport medium as discussed below. In some embodiments, the other application devices B and C do not comprise an ESTB, but in other embodiments they may. In embodiments where application device B comprises an ESTB, ANID B thus corresponds to a second SNID provided to customer premises . In embodiments where application device C comprises an ESTB, SNID A thus corresponds to a multi-ESTB SNID that may provide separate set-top-box capabilities to different CPE A and C. Each of these configurations provides a mechanism for providing separate set-top-box capabilities to different CPE within the customer premises, as may be desirable, for example, where different individuals wish to watch different pay-per-view programming on different televisions.","In another alternative embodiment, such as configuration \u2032\u2033 illustrated in , an SNID  can provide connectivity to a plurality of distribution points A and B, as well to a plurality of CPE A, B, and C. In the illustrated configuration \u2032\u2033, the SNID  is provided in a separated form with an ESTB A and two other application devices B and C for providing supplementary application services. The ESTB A and one of the other application devices B are provided external to the customer premises  and have service interfaces A and B. The second other application device C is provided interior to the customer premises, illustrating that it is not a requirement that all of the supplementary application devices comprised by the SNID  be disposed external to the customer premises . In embodiments where one or more of the other application devices, say application device B, comprises an ESTB, the SNID  corresponds to a multi-ESTB SNID that may provide separate set-top-box capabilities to different CPE A and B. Furthermore, in some embodiments application device C could comprise an ESTB, whereby the overall arrangement comprises set-top-box capabilities not only in the external SNID , but also comprises one or more set-top boxes interior to the premises. The connectivity of a single SNID  to a plurality of distribution points A and B and to a plurality of CPE A, B, and C may be effected through attachments for multiple internal transport media A, B, and C and for multiple external transport media A and B. Moreover, as illustrated by , each distribution point A and B may be associated with a different control point A and B, respectively. In alternative embodiments, a single control point  could provide configuration information to the SNID  with respect to both distribution points A and B.","Turning now to , another exemplary configuration \u2033\u2033 is presented in accordance with certain embodiments of the invention. In exemplary system \u2033\u2033, the SNID  is shown having a configuration similar to that of , with a structure in which the demarcation-, ESTB-, and other application-device components are separated, including one of the other application devices C in the interior of the customer premises . Instead of communication of the SNID  with a plurality of control points  being effected through a plurality of distribution points ,  shows an embodiment in which such communication is achieved with a common distribution point . This distribution point , which may be operated by a telecommunication service provider, can be in communication with one or more telecommunication information providers A and B. Each telecommunication information provider A and B can be the source or recipient of one or more telecommunication information sets, each of which may be associated with a particular telecommunication service. Each of the telecommunication information sets may thus be transmitted to, or received from, the distribution point . Distribution point  can also transmit these information sets to, or received them from, the SNID  through demarcation device , via external transport medium . Such an configuration \u2033\u2033 thus exploits a capability of the SNID  to process a plurality of such information sets in a variety of ways, as discussed below.","In certain embodiments, each telecommunication information provider A or B may have an individual control point B or C. In some such embodiments, control points B and C can be in communication with the SNID  via distribution point  or, alternatively, could have a separate means of communication with the SNID , such as via a modem and telephone line. Thus, in some embodiments, the SNID  can receive state information from each control point B, and C through the demarcation device . As discussed above, state information can direct the behavior of the demarcation device , ESTB IA, and\/or other application devices B and C comprised by the SNID , in particular with respect to how to handle telecommunication information to implement various applications on the CPE A, B, and\/or C. Such state information may be received by the SNID  over the external transport medium  or through the service interfaces A and B of the ESTB A and other application device B. In some embodiments, the SNID  can be configured to accept state information related only to the telecommunication information and\/or services provided by the telecommunication information provider sending the state information. In this way, the SNID  can be protected against inadvertent or malicious misconfiguration, which could interrupt a telecommunication service provided by another telecommunication information provider. Likewise, the SNID  could be configured to automatically request updated state information from control point A associated with distribution point  in the case of misconfiguration, and control point A could maintain a master set of configuration information to be able to accommodate such a request.","In other embodiments, telecommunication information providers A and B may not have an associated control point. In such embodiments, telecommunication information providers A and B can send state information to control point A, perhaps via distribution point A, and control point A can relay that state information to the demarcation device  (again, perhaps through distribution point ). In this way the telecommunication service provider can control which state information is transmitted to the SNID .","In certain embodiments, the demarcation device  can submit a request for state information to one or more control points A, B, and\/or C, perhaps via distribution point . Such a request might be made if, for instance, the customer would like to watch a pay-per-view movie. The appropriate control point, e.g., B, could then provide the proper state information to the SNID  as described above, allowing transmission of the movie to customer premises .","As exemplified by configuration  in , embodiments of the invention enable a single SNID  to serve multiple CPE A-F, each of which can comprise a different appliance, at a single customer premises . The flexibility provided by the SNID  may be exemplified in an embodiment where the SNID  includes other application devices B and C in addition to the ESTB A for providing a variety of supplementary application services. For instance, CPE A can be a television, CPE B can be a telephone, CPE C can be a video game system, CPE D can be a computer with an Ethernet interface, CPE E can be a computer with an HPNA interface, and CPE F can be a laptop computer equipped with a wireless network card. The user functionality of each of these CPE examples may be enhanced with the ESTB A and other application devices B and C comprised by the SNID .","Also as illustrated by configuration , the single SNID  can support multiple network topologies. For instance, the SNID  can serve as a hub for a point-to-point network topology, with multiple point-to-point connections to CPE A and B via internal transport media A and B, respectively. In addition, the SNID  can support a bus topology, as illustrated by internal transport medium , which can connect the SNID  to CPE C, D, and E. The SNID  can also be equipped with a wireless transmitter  for communication with wireless-capable CPE F. In this way, the SNID  can support a wide variety of networking media in customer premises , including the existing telephone, satellite, cable, and network wiring. For instance, the existing telephone wiring in most homes is arranged in a bus topology, as is most coaxial cable (for instance RG or RG) installed by cable television providers, although each may, in some implementations, be wired using a star topology. In contrast, many homes also have 10Base-T Ethernet networks, which sometimes require a central hub. As used herein, the term \u201c10Base-T\u201d can be understood to include newer implementations of Ethernet over unshielded twisted pair wiring, including, for instance, 100 megabit Ethernet (100Base-T, 100VG-AnyLAN, etc.) and gigabit Ethernet (1000Base-T) standards. The SNID  can support these and other network topologies, serving as the hub in a 10Base-T network if necessary.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":"FIG. 1G","b":["150","151","154","156","158","160","160","156","158"]},"In accordance with some embodiments, distribution point  also comprises a central office shelf  in communication with the PSTN , as well with an asynchronous transfer mode (\u201cATM\u201d) network , either of which can provide connectivity to any of the variety of data sources and\/or recipients discussed above. In certain embodiments, shelf  is, in turn, coupled to fiber distribution panel , which is connected by transport medium  to a digital loop carrier remote termination cabinet . Remote termination cabinet  can also be coupled to DSLAM  by transport medium , which may be routed through serving area interface . In effect, transport medium  can carry one or more POTS information sets, and transport medium  can carry one or more non-POTS (in this case xDSL) information sets.","As illustrated, these two information sets can be combined at DSLAM , which is in communication with serving area interface  through transport medium . Serving area interface  can be coupled to demarcation device  of SNID  with transport medium . In addition to the demarcation device , the SNID  comprises an ESTB  and a plurality of other application devices , the combination being adapted to provide set-top-box and other application functions to various equipment within the customer premises . In the illustrated embodiment, the SNID  is fixedly attached to an exterior wall at the customer premises . The ESTB  and other application devices  of the SNID  may then be coupled via one or more internal transport media A-G to a variety of CPE, including without limitation a television set , a video phone , an analog (POTS) telephone , an IP-compatible phone , and a personal computer . In this way, an SNID  can be used to provide a plurality of telecommunication services to a customer premises, including set-top-box functions.","2. Structure of an Set-Top-Box Network Interface Device","One exemplary embodiment of an SNID  is illustrated in . For purposes of illustration,  provides a top view that explicitly shows components within the SNID , while  provides a side view that shows the logical organization of the SNID  without the components. In the illustrated embodiment, SNID  comprises a clamshell design, with a lid portion  and a body portion  connected by hinges A and B. The body portion  comprises a network area  and a customer area . Generally, network area  is adapted to receive a cover and is designed generally to be accessible only to personnel authorized by the telecommunication service provider. In contrast, when SNID  is open, the customer can access customer area  to add or remove components as desired. In this and other ways, the SNID  serves to isolate the telecommunication service provider's network from the customer's network, as described above.","The SNID  can include a first interface  for communicating with the provider's external transport medium. Those skilled in the art will recognize that, in some embodiments, as described above, the external transport medium may comprise the twisted-pair copper \u201clocal loop\u201d running from the customer's premises to the telecommunication service provider's local office, and interface  will allow for the attachment of the local loop to the SNID . As discussed above, in other embodiments, the external transport medium can be any of a variety of other media, including satellite transmissions, wireless transmissions, coaxial cable, and the like. In fact, in certain embodiments, the external transport medium can comprise multiple transport media (of the same or different types), for which the SNID  could include multiple interfaces. In some such embodiments, the SNID  can function to couple a plurality of external transport media to one another, seamlessly increasing the bandwidth available to the customer premises. For instance, a customer premises might have a satellite link to one telecommunication service provider and an ADSL link to another provider, and the SNID  could combine or multiplex these two links to provide an apparent single, higher-bandwidth to the customer premises. Similarly, those skilled in the art will recognize that in certain of these embodiments, a particular external transport medium, such as a satellite link, may be more Well-suited to one way transmission of telecommunication information; in such cases, the SNID  could use a second external transport medium, such as an ADSL link, to allow transmission in the other direction.","Interface  can be coupled to a discrimination device , which can be operative to separate information sets received on interface , and, conversely, aggregate information sets for transmission on interface ). Merely by way of example, in particular embodiments, discrimination device  can separate POTS information from other telecommunication information and\/or isolate signals on the internal transport medium from the external transport medium and vice versa. In some embodiments, for instance xDSL implementations, discrimination device  can comprise one or more filters. Such filters can include, but are not limited to, high-pass, low-pass, and\/or band-pass filters. For instance, in an xDSL implementation, discrimination device  might include a high-pass and\/or low-pass filter for separating high-frequency (e.g., data) from low frequency (e.g., POTS) information. In other embodiments, discrimination device  can comprise many other types of filters, including both digital and analog filters. Discrimination device  can be operable to separate information sets through a variety of criteria, including for example, by frequency, by destination device, information type, and\/or frequency. Further, in certain embodiments, information sets can be multiplexed (for instance, using various time-division multiplexing or wave-division multiplexing schemes known in the art) for transmission over an external transport medium, and discrimination device  can comprise a demultiplexer capable of separating multiplexed signals and, optionally, routing each signal to the necessary destination.","In the illustrated embodiment, discrimination device  is in communication with a second interface , which can interface with the telephone wires at the customer premises to provide traditional analog telephone service. In some embodiments, an aggregator  can be situated between discrimination device  and interface  to allow additional, perhaps non-POTS, information sets to be sent and received through interface  simultaneously with the POTS information. This can include, for example, aggregating information sets for transmission of an HPNA signal over an internal transport medium.","The discrimination device can also be coupled to a processing system , which in the illustrated embodiment is located in the lid portion , and all non-POTS information sets can be routed to processing system  for additional processing. Processing system  is described in detail below, but can, in general, comprise one or microprocessors, including digital signal processor (\u201cDSP\u201d) chips, memory devices, including both volatile and nonvolatile memories, and storage devices, including hard disk drives, optical drives and other media. In fact, processing system  can comprise the equivalent of one or more personal computers, running any of a variety of operating systems, including variants of Microsoft's Windows\u2122 operating system, as well as various flavors of the UNIXT\u2122 operating system, including open source implementations such as the several Linux\u2122 and FreeBSD\u2122 operating systems.","Telecommunication information or information sets can be processed by processing system  in a variety of ways, including, for example, routing a given information set to a particular interface, transforming information such as by encoding and\/or decoding information and converting between different transport protocols, storing information, filtering information, and any of the other functions described herein with respect to processing systems. In certain embodiments, processing system  can serve as the termination point for an external transport medium; for instance processing system  can incorporate the functionality of an xDSL modem. In other embodiments, processing system  can serve to identify quality-of-service requirements (for instance, latency requirements for voice transmissions and bandwidth requirements for streaming media transmissions, to name a few) and enforce those requirements, ensuring that sufficient bandwidth is provided to a particular device, network segment or application to maintain the quality of service required.","In certain embodiments, such as those described above with respect to , an SNID may comprise another interface in communication with a second distribution point B through an additional external transport medium A, perhaps operated by a different telecommunication service provider. In such a case, the additional external interface could be coupled to discrimination device , or it could be coupled to another discrimination device, which could also be in communication with processing system , interface  and\/or aggregator . Thus, certain embodiments allow a single SNID to serve as a communication gateway between the customer premises and multiple telecommunication service providers, including combining or multiplexing multiple external transport media (each of which may be in communication with a different telecommunication service provider and\/or telecommunication information provider) as discussed above.","In the illustrated example, processing system  is in communication with aggregator , which, as discussed above, can aggregate non-POTS information sets received from processing system  and POTS information sets received directly from discrimination device  for consolidated transmission via interface . In effect, discrimination device  and aggregator , perhaps in conjunction with processing system , can function to separate telecommunication information received on interface  into a set of POTS telecommunication information and a set of non-POTS telecommunication information. POTS information can be understood to include ordinary telephone signals, and non-POTS information can be understood to include all other telecommunication information). The non-POTS information is routed via transport medium  to processing system  for processing, and the POTS information is routed to interface  for transmission to the internal transport medium. In certain embodiments, one or more sets of non-POTS information can be routed to interface  using transport medium  for transmission through interface , perhaps in combination with one or more sets of POTS information.","Of course, discrimination device  and aggregator  can perform the same function in reverse, i.e., to separate and recombine different sets of telecommunication information received on interface  from the customer's premises. Thus, in some embodiments, both discrimination device  and aggregator  each can perform a combined discrimination-device-aggregator function, depending on the direction of information flow. In fact, while termed \u201cdiscrimination device\u201d and \u201caggregator\u201d for ease of description, those two devices can actually be identical, and further, their functionality can, in some embodiments, be incorporated into a single device, which could be coupled to interface , interface , and processing system , and could route information sets among any of those three components as necessary. Moreover, as described below, the functionality of discrimination device  and\/or aggregator  can be incorporated into processing system ; likewise discrimination device  can incorporate interface  and\/or aggregator  can incorporate interface , such that discrimination device  and\/or aggregator  comprise the necessary components to be coupled directly to the external and internal transport media, respectively.","Discrimination device  and\/or aggregator  can also serve another function in certain embodiments: Since the external transport medium is coupled to first interface  and the internal transport medium can be coupled to, inter alia, second interface , the discrimination device  and\/or aggregator  can serve as an isolation device for intermediating between the two media, such that when a topological change occurs in one of the media, only the SNID interface need be changed, and the other transport medium is not affected. In some such embodiments, discrimination device  and\/or aggregator  can serve to intermediate (including protocol translation and the like) between interfaces , , allowing either the internal or the external transport medium to be upgraded or changed without impacting the other transport medium. Of course, in certain embodiments, this isolation function also could be performed by processing system . In yet other embodiments, the isolation device might comprise a separate piece of hardware in communication with discrimination device , aggregator  and\/or processing system .","In order to effect the set-top-box functionality, the SNID  comprises an ESTB A, and may also comprise one or more other application devices B and C to implement supplementary applications. The ESTB A and other application devices are usually disposed in the network area , but as illustrated for other application device B, they may sometimes be disposed in the customer area  to permit access by the customer. The ESTB A is provided in communication with the processing system  by transport medium . The other application devices B and C may also be provided in communication with the processing system  by transport media  and . The ESTB A is also in communication with interface  over transport medium , which allows communication with the transport media internal to the customer premises. For example, interface  could be a coaxial interface for connection to RG6 and\/or RG59 cable. Similar communication with the transport media internal to the customer premises may also be provided in some embodiments for application devices providing supplementary services. Such an example is illustrated with other application device B in communication with interface  over transport medium . Merely by way of example, interface  could be an RJ45 and\/or RJ11 interface for connection to unshielded twisted pair cable, which can, for instance, form a 10Base-T Ethernet network.","To illustrate, if interface  receives telecommunication information that includes digitally encoded video signals, such as MPEG-2 data, the information set that includes the encoded video signals can be routed by discrimination device  to processing system . After transmission from the processing system to the ESTB A over transport medium , the signals can be decoded into RF-modulated NTSC, HDTV, PAL and\/or SECAM format for transmission via transport medium  to coaxial interface , where it can be transmitted via coaxial cable to one or more televisions at the customer premises.","For other supplementary applications, such as illustrated with other application device C, information might be routed from the application device C through the aggregator . Such an arrangement may be suitable for supplementary applications that use IP data, such as a VoIP application. For example, the SNID  might receive IP data combined with television information and perhaps also other types of telecommunication information, on interface . The information sets can be routed by the discrimination device  via medium  to processing system , where they can be processed. Television information could then be routed via transport medium  to the ESTB A for subsequent delivery of that information through interface  in accordance with the level of service subscribed for by the customer. For example, premium television channels may or may not be decoded by the ESTB A and pay-per-view programming may or may not be transmitted by the ESTB A depending on the service level.","Similar types of routing and processing may be performed for supplementary applications as well. It will be appreciated that it many instances the supplementary applications act to enhance the functionality provided by the ESTB A. In other instances, the supplementary applications provide functionality in the customer premises that is not directly related to the ESTB A functions, but which is conveniently coordinated by the SNID . For instance, if other application device C comprises a VoIP application device, the corresponding IP data information set received at the processing system  could be extracted and routed to other application device C over transport medium . It may then be provided to the customer's existing telephone wiring using interface , optionally in conjunction with aggregator  and\/or one or more line drivers. In this way, the SNID can allow virtually unlimited connectivity options for each CPE at the customer premises, in addition to providing the set-top-box functionality. Adding to the flexibility of SNID , the processing system  could include components to serve, for example, as a cable or xDSL modem, as well as components to serve as an Ethernet hub, switch, router, or gateway, the functions of each of which are familiar to those of skill in the art.","There are a variety of different other application devices B and C that may be incorporated within the SNID  in order to provide a versatile range of supplementary functionality. The following examples are provided merely by way of illustration and still other application devices that may additionally or alternatively be used will be evident to those of skill in the art after reading this description. One supplementary application device B or C that may be included is a digital-recorder application device, which could provide a mechanism for digital recording of all forms of information incoming to the SNID  and make them accessible to a user at the customer premises. The information that could be recorded includes video, data, voice, among other types of information. Another supplementary application device B or C that may be included is a digital storage application device, which could provide a supplementary mechanism for storing information presented to user applications. The information that could be stored also includes video, data, voice, and other types of information. The combination of a digital-recorder application device and a digital-storage application device in an SNID  may be used conveniently to provide primary and secondary information-storage capabilities. For example, a digital-recorder application could be used to provide a primary, on-line, video storage capability while a digital-storage application could be used to provide a secondary, off-line, video storage capability. Still other supplementary application devices could be included to enhance such functionality further, such as a hard-drive application device to permit expandable storage capabilities.","Other examples of supplementary application devices B or C whose functions may be conveniently coordinated include digital-asset application devices. For example, one of the other application devices B or C in the SNID  could comprise a digital-asset sharing application device to permit sharing of information among equipment within the customer premises. Such an asset-sharing capability may be used within the customer premises to share video, data, electronic books, games, music, and the like. Another of the other application devices B or C could comprise a digital-asset caching application device to permit storage and distribution of digital assets. The combination of digital-asset sharing application devices and digital-asset caching application devices among a plurality of SNIDs  in a service are could then be used to permit exchange of video, data, electronic books, games, music, and the like among customer premises throughout a defined service area. In some instances, a further supplementary application device B or C could comprise a digital-asset protection application device to control the distribution of digital assets in accordance with legal restrictions, such as those derived from copyright ownership.","In some embodiments, the other application devices B or C may comprise application devices for effecting various voice-related applications within a customer premises. For example, a voice application device could include functionality to provide such functions as telephone caller identification, call logs, voice mail-storage, voice-mail retrieval, call waiting, solicitation barriers, and the like. In addition, a VoIP application device could provide support for VoIP functions within the customer premises.","Still further supplementary application devices B or C that may be used include various types of informational applications. For example, an online digital guide application device could be used to provide a digital data guide for television, music, and other types of programming. Such a data guide could be provided alternatively in real time or in non-real-time. A further example of an informational application could be realized with a home-utilities application device adapted to provide monitoring and\/or billing tracking functions for utilities used within the customer premises. In this way, the use and\/or cost of electricity, gas, water, and other utilities may be monitored by the customer. In addition, a diagnostic-interface application device may be provided to permit diagnostic functions of equipment within the customer premises, thereby permitting the customer to obtain information on the functioning of such equipment.","Other application devices  may provide security functions. For example, a data security application device may be used to provide hacker protection for the home, responding to identified attempts to breach the security of the customer premises. In addition, a home-security application device could be provided to monitor the physical security of the customer premises. Such a home-security application device would typically be provided with an interface to door and window monitors to determine whether they are open or shut, and with an interface to motion detectors, glass-breaking detectors, and other physical security equipment known to those of skill in the art.","The ESTB A and each of the supplementary application devices B or C in the SNID may include a service interface  to permit their states to be changed and\/or updated. As previously noted, such interfaces may comprise physical interfaces such as USB, FireWire (IEEE 1394), RJ-11, RJ-45, serial, coaxial, or other physical interfaces, to permit a service technician to interact with the ESTB A or supplementary application devices B or C while at the site of the SNID . Alternatively, the service interfaces may comprise logical interfaces to permit IP addressing to be used in changing the state of the application devices. In many instances, the SNID  may also include a future-application device with open architecture to support new applications. The architecture may be configured by use of the service interfaces  when the new application is implemented.","In certain embodiments, SNID  can comprise a line driver (not shown on  or B), coupled to processing system  and aggregator . The line driver can function to allow conversion between various network formats and media, allowing a variety of different media types, e.g., twisted pair and\/or coaxial cable, in accordance with the HPNA and HPNA+ standards, as well, perhaps, as the customer premises' A\/C wiring, in accordance, for example, with the HomePlug\u2122 standard, to transport combined POTS and non-POTS information sets.","In certain embodiments, SNID  can comprise a power supply  for providing electrical power to the components in SNID . Power supply  can be powered through electrical current carried on the external transport medium and received on interface . Alternatively, power supply can receive electrical current from a coaxial interface, such as interface , or through a dedicated transformer plugged into an AC outlet at customer premises, e.g., through 12V connection . Processing system  can be powered by a connection  to power supply , or through one or more separate power sources, including perhaps the A\/C power of the customer premises. In some embodiments, processing system  might have its own power supply.","As mentioned above, processing system  can comprise a plurality of processing devices, and each processing device can comprise multiple components, including microservers, memory devices, storage devices and the like. As used herein, a \u201cmicroserver\u201d is intended to refer to any device programmed to perform a specified limited set of functions, such as an EPROM. Merely by way of example,  provides a detailed illustration of an exemplary processing system , which comprises multiple processing devices . In accordance with the exemplified embodiment, transport medium  links processing system  with an external transport medium, perhaps via a discrimination device and\/or interface, as described above.","Transport medium  can be coupled to a plurality of microservers  such that any information received by the processing system  via transport medium  may be routed to any of the microservers . Each microserver can, in some embodiments, be the equivalent of a server computer, complete with memory devices, storage devices, and the like, each of which is known in the art. In , storage devices  associated with each of the microservers  are shown. One of the microservers A may be associated with the ESTB A and each of the other microservers B and C may be associated with a respective one of the supplementary application devices B or C. The supplementary microservers B and C may individually be adapted to function as, for example, HTML microservers, authentication microservers, FTP microservers, TFTP microservers, DHCP microservers, WebServer microservers, email microservers, critical alert microservers, home-security microservers, VPN microservers, advertising microservers, instant-messaging microservers, wireless microservers, rf microservers, test-access microservers, data-security microservers, and the like.","In addition to these functions, microservers  can be configured to route information sets received via transport medium , according to the type of telecommunication information in the set (e.g., encoded video, IP data, etc.) as well as any addressing information associated with either the set or the information it comprises (e.g., a specified destination port or network address for a particular subset of telecommunication information). In this way, microservers  can serve switching functions somewhat similar to that described with respect to discrimination device  described in relation to . For instance, if television-signal data is received by microserver A, such data can be routed to the ESTB A for decoding and transmission as appropriate according to subscription service levels. As an example of a supplementary application, if IP data is received by microserver B, such data can be routed to an Ethernet connection, to the existing telephone wiring, e.g., in an HPNA implementation, or to any other appropriate medium, perhaps via an appropriate line driver. In fact, in certain embodiments, processing system , and in particular one or more of microservers , can incorporate the functionality of discrimination device  and\/or aggregator , rendering those components optional. In some embodiments, one or more of the microservers may be adapted to function as a controller for the SNID , overseeing the SNID's state and monitoring performance. In some embodiments, the controller functions can be accessed using a web browser.","Processing system  can have multiple means of input and output. Merely by way of example, microservers  can communicate with one or more external transport media (perhaps, as discussed above, via intermediary devices) using one or more transport media (e.g., ). Processing system  also can communicate with one or more internal transport media via a variety of information conduits, such as category 5, 5e and\/or 6 unshielded twisted pair wire , RG6 and\/or RG59 coaxial cable , and category 3 unshielded twisted pair copper (telephone) wire , again possibly via intermediary devices, as discussed with reference to . Notably, some embodiments of processing system  can include interfaces for multiple transport media of a particular type, for instance, if processing system  serves as a networking hub, switch or router. Processing system  can also have infra-red and radio-frequency receivers and transmitters, for instance to allow use of a remote control device, as well as wireless transceivers, for instance to allow wireless (e.g., IEEE 802.11) networking.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIG. 2D","FIG. 2D"],"b":["246","246","268","281","282","283","281","282","283","246","284","281","282","283","286","286","269","286","246","285","246"]},"Notably, different embodiments of the SNID can provide several benefits, including simultaneous video, data and voice transmission, while maintaining required Quality of Service levels for each particular information set. Further, some embodiments of the SNID can comprise a router that is capable of multi-protocol label switching (\u201cMPLS\u201d), which, those skilled in the art will recognize, allows the telecommunication service provider tremendous flexibility in designing the architecture of the external transport medium, including options, such as \u201cEthernet in the last mile\u201d and tag switching, that provide enhanced features and performance across the provider's network. Various embodiments of the SNID also allow for a plurality of virtual private networks to be established through the SNID, allowing one or more secure data connections from the customer premises to other locations.","There are, furthermore, a number of different features that may be supported by the ESTB using the organizational descriptions described above. Merely by way of example, the ESTB may be used to provide middleware support, programming guides, pay-per-view functionality, video-on-demand functionality, encryption and decryption support for video signals and authentication functions, billing interfaces, closed-captioning functionality, macrovision functionality, and the like. In addition the ESTB may provide various forms of management support, including fault monitoring, internal ESTB monitoring, remote reboot support, remote shutdown, and the like.","3. Implementation","Methods for providing television signals in accordance with embodiments of the invention may be implemented using one or more of the SNID structures described above.  provides a summary of several such embodiments. Since specific details of how each of the steps shown in  may be implemented have been provided in detail above, these steps are described relatively briefly in connection with . At block , a transport medium internal to a customer premises is isolated from transport media external to the customer premises. Such isolation permits a flow of telecommunication information between the internal and external transport media to be mediated by the SNID. Thus, at block , telecommunication information is received from a first transport medium external to the customer premises, such as by the SNID. At block , this telecommunication information is provided to the ESTB, which is located external to the customer premises so that the ESTB may decode it according to the format in which it is received at block . A television signal is generated by subsequently encoding the information at block  according to NTSC, PAL, SECAM, or similar formats.","Subsequent actions taken by the ESTB may depend on a level of service that the ESTB is configured to provide to a particular customer premises, as checked at block . For example, if the service level includes providing access to regular television programming and the received telecommunication information includes such regular programming, the corresponding television signal is provided to the internal transport medium at block . Similarly, if the service level includes providing access to certain premium television programming and the received telecommunication information includes that premium programming, the corresponding television signal is provided to the internal transport medium at block . In other embodiments, the service level may include providing access to a certain pay-per-view program; usually such a service level is of short duration and in response to a specific request transmitted to the ESTB in accordance with the nature of pay-per-view programming. In such instances, and where the received telecommunication information includes the requested program, the corresponding television signal is provided to the internal transport medium at block .","The ESTB may also provide PVR functionality in some embodiments, as indicated at block . Such functionality may make use of a buffer data-storage facility included within the ESTB and is implemented by responding to interactivity between the ESTB and the internal transport medium. Provided that the service level permits such functionality, instructions from a user transmitted over the internal transport medium to the ESTB may cause the ESTB to change the manner in which television signals are transmitted. For example, the ESTB may write information to the buffer data-storage facility, may transmit information from the buffer at normal speed, increased speed, or in reverse order, and may pause transmission. In this way, the user is provided with the ability to control transmission of the television signals by pausing, fast-forwarding, rewinding, and the like. Furthermore, this functionality may be provided in concert with a remote-controlled signalling in which the ESTB is equipped with the capacity to be controlled with a remote transmitter. In some instances, multiple remote transmitters within the customer premises may be equipped to control the ESTB, with addressibility of the remote transmitters being used by the ESTB to distinguish them. In particular, infrared-over-coax signalling could be used with an addressable controller that receives infrared signals from the transmitters, converts the signals, and transmits them back to the SNID.","Such interactivity may also be used in providing web-browsing functionality, as indicated at block . Such functionality may be provided in those embodiments where the ESTB includes an IP decoder with which the web-browsing capability may be implemented. The ESTB acts as an interface between the internal transport medium, onto which a user puts instructions for accessing particular web sites, transmitting information to those web sites, downloading information from those web sites, and the like, and the external transport media, from which corresponding information is retrieved or onto which corresponding information is transmitted. In this way, users who want web access but who do not wish to pay for the cost of a personal computer because they do not want or need its other capabilities, are provided with an economical way to use web-browsing functionality. This functionality permits, for example, such users to engage in electronic commerce and other applications.","In a manner similar to the interactive functionality, the ESTB may be configured to provide data-caching functionality in some embodiments. For example, the ESTB could be configured automatically to receive certain subscription data, such as news, shopping catalogs, brochures, premium programming, web pages, magazines, and the like, and to write such data to a data-storage facility comprised by the SNID. The user could then access such information at her convenience. In the case of subscriptions, such as to news or to magazines, the ESTB could be configured automatically to overwrite old information with new information as it is received so that the user always has access to the most recent \u201cissue\u201d of her subscription.","While the left column of  indicates these various functions of the ESTB and\/or SNID, the right column indicates that this functionality may be enhanced and\/or integrated with supplementary functionality in various embodiments. Thus, at block , it is possible to change a state of the ESTB. Such a change in state may be used, for example, to change service levels so that more or fewer of the functions described in connection with the left column become accessible to a specific customer premises. Such changes in state may be made for indefinite periods of time or may be more transient, such as in the case of providing a pay-per-view program, in which case the change in state may be effected only for approximately the length of the program.","Blocks - indicate the supplementary functionality may also be provided using a second external transport medium. In many instances, such supplementary functionality is provided with an integrated SNID that comprises one or more supplementary application devices in addition to the ESTB and as described above. Thus, at block , telecommunication information is received from the second external transport medium and provided to the supplementary application device at block . The supplementary application device implements the supplementary application, for which several examples have been described above, at block . The state of the second application device may be changed, as indicated at block , to effect a change in its functionality.","Those of skill in the art will appreciate that while the blocks in  are provided in an exemplary order, there is no requirement that respective steps be performed in the order shown. In some embodiments, the respective steps may be performed in a different order. Also, there is no requirement that all of the steps shown in  be performed in a given embodiment since the telecommunication information may be provided to the internal transport medium in accordance with embodiments of the invention by performing a subset of the recited steps.","Thus, having described several embodiments, it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that various modifications, alternative constructions, and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. Accordingly, the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention, which is defined in the following claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used throughout the several drawings to refer to similar components. In some instances, a capital-letter sublabel is associated with a reference numeral to denote one of multiple similar components. When reference is made to a reference numeral without specification to an existing sublabel, it is intended to refer to all such multiple similar components.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A-1G"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A-2D"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 3"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
