---
title: Blast pressure gauge
abstract: An apparatus for measuring pressure includes a cylindrical tube having an open end and a closed end; a piston disposed in the cylindrical tube at the open end; an accelerometer attached to a side of the piston that faces the closed end of the tube, the accelerometer for measuring the acceleration of the piston after a blast event; and a pressure sensor located inside the tube for measuring pressure in the tube between the piston and the closed end of the tube. The apparatus also includes a data processor and computer connected by wires to the accelerometer and pressure sensor for receiving signals generated by the accelerometer and pressure sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06925887&OS=06925887&RS=06925887
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 06925887
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030417
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefor.","The invention relates in general to an apparatus for measuring pressure generated from the detonation of explosives and in particular to an apparatus that can measure such pressure for an extended time after the initial peak pressure.","In the development of new non-ideal explosives, a measurement of the late time conditions is required to understand the explosive performance. Therefore, a pressure gauge that will survive the interior pressure of the blast (i.e., the area of high temperatures, turbulence and debris) and measure the performance of a complex blast wave is required. Many known gauges for measuring pressure generated by explosives become saturated by the initial pressure pulse and are not able to continue measuring the pressure after the initial pressure pulse. The present invention is not saturated by the initial pressure pulse, thereby allowing measurement and evaluation of the late time phenomenon of the explosive. In addition, the present invention can survive the hostile environment of the blast.","The invention will be better understood, and further objects, features, and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","10","12","22","20","14","12","22","16","14","20","12","16","14","18","12","12","14","20","24","22","12"]},"A data processor\/computer  receives signals from accelerometer  and pressure sensor  via electric wires , . The data processor\/computer  converts signals produced by accelerometer  and pressure sensor  into appropriate signal voltages and then computes the exterior pressure, as discussed in detail below.","Exterior pressure Pis the pressure outside tube  and is the quantity desired to be known. Fis the force exerted by the exterior pressure Pon piston ; Piston  has a mass M, a cross-sectional area A and an acceleration a. Interior volume  has a pressure Pthat produces a force Fon piston . Balancing the forces on piston  results in:\n\n, but\n\n,and,so that\n\nP=()+P.\n\nA and M are known, a and Pare measured, therefore, one can solve for P.\n","Tube  and piston  are made of, for example, steel or a steel alloy. The length of tube  may vary, depending on how close the apparatus  is to the blast. The closer to the blast, the longer the tube  needs to be to allow for travel of the piston  in the tube . If the apparatus  is located within the immediate blast area, for example, about six inches from the detonation point, then the tube  should be from about two to three feet long. If the apparatus  is outside the immediate blast area, then the tube  may need to be only about six inches long. It is important that the open end  of tube  is directed toward the detonation point. Multiple apparatus  may be used around the detonation area, at different ranges from the detonation point.","The wall thickness of tube  is, for example, about 0.5 inches. The tube  must be able to withstand the effects of the explosion. An exemplary inside diameter of tube  is about two inches. An exemplary mass M for piston  is about one kilogram. It is important that the tube  and piston  are precisely machined. The clearance between the tube  and piston  should be on the order of about one mil. The clearance is important so that passage of any gas around the piston  is minimized or completely eliminated. Pressure sensor  is preferably mounted on the internal surface of the closed end  of tube . Pressure sensor  may be a standard commercially available sensor such as the brand \u201cEndevco.\u201d",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["12","32","32","12","12","32","34","22","12","32","36","36","38","40","36","20","12","26","28","16","18","26","28","36","30"]},"While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, numerous changes, alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, and equivalents thereof."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["In the drawings, which are not necessarily to scale, like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
