---
title: Spread spectrum transceiver module utilizing multiple mode transmission
abstract: A data transceiver module for digital data communications in a portable hand-held data terminal has multiple data spread spectrum modes which include direct sequence and frequency function modulation algorithms. The transceiver module has multiple user or program configurable data rates, modulation, channelization and process gain in order to maximize the performance of radio data transmissions and to maximize interference immunity. Various module housings, which may be PCMCIA type, are able to be mated with a suitably designed data terminal. Media access control protocols and interfaces of multiple nominal operational frequencies are utilized. Wireless access devices in a cell based network each consider a variety of factors when choosing one of a plurality of modes of wireless operation and associated operating parameters. Such selection defines a communication channel to support wireless data, message and communication exchanges. In further embodiments, the wireless access devices also support a second channel, a busy/control channel, for managing communication on the main communication channel and to overcome roaming and hidden terminal problems. Roaming terminal devices are also configured to support the dual channel design. Such configuration in both circumstances may involve the use of a multimode radio that is timeshared between the two channels or two radios, one dedicated to each channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07676198&OS=07676198&RS=07676198
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 07676198
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031014
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/973,195, filed Mar. 6, 2000, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,697,415. This application is also the National Stage of International Application No. PCT\/US96\/09474 filed Jun. 3, 1996, which claims priority from U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/645,348 filed May 13, 1996, U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/544,815 filed Oct. 18, 1995, U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/513,658 filed Aug. 11, 1995, and U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/457,697 filed June, 1995.","1. Technical Field","The present invention relates generally to communication networks utilizing spread spectrum radio transceivers, and, more specifically, to multi-hop RF networks wherein participating devices utilize spread spectrum transceivers that are capable of operating in any of a variety of spread spectrum modes. The spread spectrum modes include, for example, direct sequence transmission across a spreading bandwidth or channelized across the spreading bandwidth, frequency hopping transmission across all or a part of the spreading bandwidth, a hybrid combination of direct sequence transmissions and frequency hopping transmissions, and transmissions on a portion of the spreading bandwidth. The selection of a spread spectrum mode of operation depends upon signal conditions and characteristics of members capable of communication within the RF communication network.","2. Description of Related Art","Communication devices within a wireless local area network employ wireless communication links to transfer data and commands within the local area network. Typical units within a wireless local area network include stationary wireless access devices, mobile radio units, mobile image capture units, printing units, and other units operative with the data and commands. These units often link to a wired local area network through a wireless access device to transfer data and commands to devices located on the wired network. The wireless local area networks typically employ cellular communication techniques to provide the wireless communication links within the local area network.","One common installation of a wireless local area network serves factory automation functions. Because hard-wiring a local area network within a large, dynamic facility is both expensive and difficult, the wireless local are network provides traditional network functions as well as additional functions germane to the wireless attributes of the network. However, due to difficult transmission and interference conditions within a factory, establishing and maintaining sufficient wireless communication ties oftentimes proves difficult. Attenuation or transmitted signals, multi-path fading, ambient noise, and interference by adjacent cells often disrupts communication within the wireless local area network.","Spread spectrum transmissions are often used in attempts to overcome communication problems. With spread spectrum transmissions, the bandwidth over which information is broadcast is deliberately made wide relative to the information bandwidth of the source information. Spread spectrum transmission techniques include direct sequence transmission, frequency hopping transmission, a combination of direct sequence transmission and frequency hopping transmission, and may include other techniques that deliberately transmit over a wide spectrum.","Direct sequence spread spectrum transmitters typically spread by first modulating a data signal with a pseudo random chipping sequence at a multiple of the source data clocking rate. Once constructed, the composite modulation is coupled to a carrier via modulation techniques and then transmitted. Phase modulation is typically employed, but frequency modulation or other types of modulation may also be used. Circuitry in a receiving units receives the signal, decodes the signal at the multiple of the source data clocking rate using a particular chipping sequence, and produces received data. In a typical direct sequence system, the pseudo random chipping sequence applied by the receiving unit corresponds to all, or respective portions, of the transmitted signal. In this fashion, the receiving unit receives only intended data and avoids receiving data from adjacent cells operating on the same frequency. Direct sequence spread spectrum modes also provide significant noise rejection characteristics since each component of the source data is essentially transmitted multiple times. The received signal is therefore a composite that may be averaged or weighted to avoid receiving improper data or falsing based upon noise.","A frequency hopping system commonly uses conventional narrowband modulation but varies the modulation frequency over time in accordance with a known pattern or algorithm, effectively moving the modulated signal over the intended spreading bandwidth. The spread spectrum signal is only discernible to a receiver that has prior knowledge of the spreading function employed and which has obtained synchronization with the spreading operation at the transmitter. By spreading transmissions over the spreading bandwidth, particular portions of the spreading bandwidth within which transmission is difficult may be substantially avoided.","In the United States and many other countries, spread spectrum communications is used commercially within designated Industrial, Scientific and Medical (ISM) bands. These bands are structured as multi-use bands containing non-communications equipment such as industrial and commercial microwave ovens as well as low power consumer grade transmitters, vehicle location and telemetry systems and other spread spectrum devices of differing characteristics. Operation in ISM bands is unlicensed and uncoordinated, so equipment operating in these bands must be designed to operate successfully without knowledge of the types of devices that may be used in close proximity. The spread spectrum system design must also take into consideration the occupants of the spectrum adjacent to the ISM bands which may be both potential sources of interference to, and susceptible to interference from, various types of spread spectrum products.","Various forms of modulation across the spreading band may be utilized in commercial spread spectrum packet data communication systems. Full band direct sequence systems occupy the entire width of an ISM band. The spreading ratio, the ratio of the bandwidth of the spread spectrum modulated signal to the information bandwidth of the source modulation, determines the process gain of the system. Regulations within the United States mandate a minimum process gain of 10 dB, which is determined from ten times the logarithm of the spreading ratio. Process gain is a measure of the ability of a spread spectrum system to resist interference. The larger the spreading ratio, the more resistant the system is to interference within the receiver bandwidth. Wide bandwidth modulation is reasonably resistant to low or moderate levels of interference, but even systems with relatively high process gains experience difficulties when subject to strong interference.","When system throughout requirements dictate high data rates, the minimum process gain requirements in the regulations necessitate using wide bandwidth transmissions. For example, a well-known system NCR Wavelan uses Quadrature PSK modulation at 1 million symbols per second to achieve 2 megabits per second (MBPS) data rates with a source information bandwidth available in the US ISM band at 902 MHz band. In practice, implementation constraints dictate that this system uses the full 26 MHz band. Systems operating at other data rates, including the original Norand system, utilize the full bandwidth at lower source data rates, e.g., 200 kilobits per second (KBPS). Utilization of a wider spreading bandwidth in this case provides greater rejection of multipath fading typical of the indoor RF signal propagation environment.","When it is anticipated the direct sequence systems may be used in environments with strong in-band interference, a design choice is to employ channelization to reject interference. In the case of channelized direct sequence (DS) modulation, the spreading bandwidth is reduced to a fraction of the total available bandwidth, and a frequency-agile frequency generation systems is employed. By selecting the carrier frequency of operation, communications can be established in a portion of the band where interference is not present. This technique requires the use of selective filters in the receiver intermediate frequency (IF) section to provide the necessary interference rejection. These channelized DS systems utilize interference avoidance rather than relying on process gain to reject interference.","Utilization of frequency hopping spread spectrum systems is appropriate in environments where interference within the band of operation is not confined to particular portions of the band, but may periodically arise in various parts of the entire band. Frequently hopping is also useful as a multiple access technique. Use of multiple hopping sequences concurrently within a given location allows many simultaneous communication sessions to be supported. Occasionally, devices operating on different hopping sequences will simultaneously occupy the same channel within the band for short periods of time. For moderate numbers of simultaneous hopping sequences, this occurs infrequently.","Frequency hopping also provides similar multipath rejection capabilities to wideband direct sequence modulation. If a particular channel of operation is in a fade temporarily preventing communication, a jump to a frequency sufficiently removed from the faded frequency will often allow communications to resume.","Frequency hopping systems require more protocol overhead to aid in establishing and maintaining synchronization between units sharing a given hopping sequence. Additionally, the initial acquisition of the hopping sequence may require that an unsynchronized device scan the band for a period equivalent to may hop times. The overhead for direct sequence systems is lower, with several bit-times usually allocated to receiver acquisition at the beginning of each transmission.","Spread spectrum communications may not be appropriate for some applications. For example, short hop communications such as communications between a portable hand-held terminal and a peripheral device such as a scanner or printer over a short distance is a very cost sensitive application. Spread spectrum operation requires more circuit complexity and power consumption than is tolerable for this application. Simpler FM or AM techniques such as ON-OFF-Keying (OOK) may be desirable.","Conventionally, the particular spread spectrum modulation technique is chosen according to the particular applications in which the data transceiver is to be utilized. For example, in a small warehouse having few RF barriers, minimal interference from cellular and wireless phones, and minimal amounts of communication traffic, radio transceivers used therein might only employ direct sequence spread spectrum transmission techniques. Thus, conventionally, such transceivers would be specifically designed, constructed and installed. However, after installation, if communication traffic or local noise increases, the communication might fail to function as required. Likewise, after installation, if RF barriers are installed or if the network is moved to an urban environment with a great deal of noise from neighboring installations, cellular and mobile phones, etc., the network may fail to meet the needs of the customer.","Similarly, a design might be based on a customer's needs for a small store in a downtown urban area. Because of the greater likelihood of a great amount of radio frequency traffic in the vicinity, the customer requires a radio which is free from interference from nearby radio transmissions with little concern for operating range. Consequently, a different specific type of radio would be designed to meet the needs of the corporation based upon the operating conditions in which the radio is to be used, for example using frequency hopping modulation.","In the exemplary installations mentioned above, each of the radios would be optimized to meet the needs of the customer. However, a customer's needs continually change, and, if the particular application or environment were to change justifying a different spread spectrum modulation technique, the customer is either forced to change all of their radio transceivers or live with the under-performance they currently receive.","Moreover, in a typical network installation, a client may have diverse operational requirements. For example, the particular applications of the radio unit may change several times within the same day. The site may also have areas which are relatively noise and barrier free and those which encounter heavy noise and barriers. Some areas may have high traffic volume, while others experience only occasional traffic. In such networks, a single radio transceiver design can never provide optimal performance in all areas. Sacrifices are made in the design characteristics of the transceivers in an attempt to provide best performance overall.","Similarly, in mobile contexts, a worker may require mobile communications to a vehicle based information system or forwarding to a central communication facility through a vehicle based radio WAN transceiver. The characteristics of the communications medium for this class of operation vary greatly. Interference will vary from location to location. Additionally, it is necessary to allow operation if the worker moves away from the vehicle or inside a building structure. Because each wireless local area network may have been designed for a particular set of criteria with particular spread spectrum operational abilities, mobile units may be non-functional within particular wireless local area networks.","Thus, there is a need in the art for a communication network that operates dynamically to optimize communication utilizing various spread spectrum transmission techniques, considering the characteristics of RF noise, neighboring interference, RF barriers, participating transceiver unit capabilities and applications to be performed in such dynamic optimization.","It is another object of the present invention to provide a spread spectrum RF transceiver module, for use in wireless network devices, which utilizes multiple spread spectrum modulation techniques providing multiple configurable modes of data transmission, whereby modes may be selected to attain optimal transmission performance.","A further object of the present invention is to provide an RF data transceiver module which combines frequency hopping and direct sequence transmission techniques within a single design.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a spread spectrum RF transceiver module which utilizes common media access protocols and interfaces for multiple nominal carrier frequencies and modulation parameters.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a spread spectrum RF transceiver utilizing 900 MHz transmission and having a standard interface with common 2.4 GHz transmission.","It is a further object of the invention to provide a spread spectrum RF transceiver which may be utilized in several different types of multi-layered data communications networks.","Another object of the present invention is to produce a wireless local area network and packet wireless data communication system that is flexible to operate reliably in varied and unpredictable RF propagation and interference environments.","A further object of the present invention is to provide a wireless RF transceiver module capable of utilizing a variety of operational modes thereby allowing large business operation to purchase a single product meeting a multiple usage needs maximizing operational flexibility and minimizing sparing and service concerns.","It is another object of the present invention to provide a modular wireless LAN modem capable of supporting multiple modes of operation under a single media access protocol with a standardized interface to a hand-held portable data terminal such that the wireless LAN modem may dynamically change modes of operation transparently to the host device, not requiring that the host device be aware of changes in the modes of operation, or that operation of higher protocol layers be impacted.","Yet another object of the present invention is to produce a modular wireless LAN modem that may be utilized for both in-premise and worker to vehicle application, and for short range communications to peripheral devices.","These and other objects of the invention will be apparent from examination of the drawings and remainder of the specification which follows.","The system and radio of the present invention to overcome the limitations of the prior devices as well as other limitations therefore may operate in any of a plurality of spread spectrum modes. A selected spread spectrum mode, or set of spread spectrum modes, is based upon system characteristics as well as transmission characteristics within an operating environment.","One particular operating environment relates to multi-hop wireless networks that are subject to in-band interference and multi-path fading. However, in these systems, members (hereinafter \u201ctransceiver devices\u201d) of the network may have different operating capabilities. Therefore, the system and radio of the present invention provide a mechanism for selecting spread spectrum modes of operation to satisfy network member limitations, data transmission throughput requirements, neighboring system non-interference requirements, as well as noise tolerance requirements.","By providing a dynamic mechanism for selecting spread spectrum modes of operation, the present invention provides many import objects and advantages that will become apparent with reference to the entire specification and drawings. In particular, in one embodiment, a communication network for collecting and communicating data is disclosed. The network comprises a wireless access device and at least one mobile terminal. The wireless access device comprises a control circuit and a first RF transceiver that selectively operates in one of a plurality of spread spectrum modes. The at least one mobile terminal comprises a second RF transceiver that operates in at least one of a plurality of spread spectrum modes. The control circuit responds to transmissions received from the first RF transceiver to evaluate communication performance and dynamically selects one of the plurality of spread spectrum modes of the first RF transceiver. Such selection also takes into consideration the at least one of the plurality of spread spectrum modes of the second RF transceiver.","Further, the plurality of spread spectrum modes of the first RF transceiver may comprise direct sequence transmission, frequency hopping, channelized direct sequence and\/or hybrid frequency hopping (direct sequence) modes. The control circuitry may evaluate communication performance through reference to received signal strength indications, transmission success rate and neighboring cell operating characteristics.","Other aspects may be found in a communication system for collecting and communicating data using wireless data signal transmission. Therein a wireless access device capable of communicating with a plurality of radios comprises a radio capable or operating in a plurality of spread spectrum modes. The wireless access device also comprises a spread spectrum mode controller responsive to transmissions and data received for evaluating the data communication system and for controlling the radio to selectively operate in a spread spectrum mode among a plurality of spread spectrum modes.","The wireless access device may further comprise circuitry for evaluating the plurality of spread spectrum modes to select a spread spectrum mode of operation. Such selection may take involve the identification of a common spread spectrum mode.","Yet other aspects can be found in a data communication system having spread spectrum capability for collecting and communicating data using wireless data signal transmission. Therein, an RF transceiver comprises an modulator having a spreader, a demodulator having a despreader, a controllable oscillator attached to the modulator and demodulator, and control circuitry that both selectively enables the spreader and despreader and selectively controls the controllable oscillator to cause operation in one of a plurality of modes of spread spectrum operation.","The data communication system may further comprising a host controller that directs the control circuitry in the selection of the one of the plurality of modes of spread spectrum operation. The host controller may comprise wireless access device control circuitry. In addition, the control circuitry may wirelessly receive instruction regarding selection of the one of the plurality of modes of spread spectrum operation. Many other aspects of the present invention will be appreciated with full reference to the specification, drawings and claims.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":"FIG. 1A","b":["1","2","2","2","4","4","4","5","6","2","2","3","2","3","2","2"]},"The wireless access A-C may comprise wireless access points or wireless access servers to provide an interface among the portable transceiver units A-C, the code reader , the peripheral device  and devices on the wired network. Each of these wireless access devices A-C has associated with it a range or cell of communication. For example, the portable transceiver units A-C may wander in and out of range of the wireless access device A. Similarly, they may wander in and out of range of the wireless access devices B-C, i.e., they may wander from cell to cell. Each access device A-C, and many more as may prove necessary, are located to provide coverage of a customer's premises. Cell areas typically overlap somewhat to support ubiquitous coverage.","Because cells typically overlap slightly with one another, at any time, a hand-held radio unit may communicate with at least two wireless access devices. To avoid conflicts with transmissions in such overlap areas, it is desirable to configure neighboring cells operate with different spreading codes, different hopping sequences or different modes, for example. However, when the portable transceiver unit B for example passes from one cell to another, it cannot communicate with a neighboring wireless access device without changing its operating characteristics. Thus, the present invention provides several techniques for accommodating devices wishing to communicate in a new cell.","Moreover, the wireless access devices A-C, peripheral device  and code reader  may be capable of only some modes of wireless operation. Thus, the present invention provides a mechanism for each of the wireless access devices A-C to dynamically attempt to select a common mode of appropriation for each participating device within its cell. Moreover, if a given mode of operation proves dissatisfactory, a wireless access device may dynamically switch modes to attempt to achieve superior performance.","In particular, data throughput concerns and requirements, ambient noise, power consumption of portable units, previously recorded success rates, received signal strength indications, neighboring cell operating modes and success rates, and mode capabilities of participating devices are all considered in determining the mode in which to operate. Each wireless access device engages in such consideration when initially establishing communication in its cell, when attaching or detaching a participating device and as channel conditions are evaluated. In other embodiments, less than all of such considerations need be made. For example, where all transceivers are known to operate in all available modes, consideration of this factor is not necessary. Similarly, if only one cell exists or if problems in overlap regions prove minimal, consideration of neighboring cell operation need not be engaged. Likewise, received signal strength alone may be used as a mode performance indication.","Using lower power transmissions, a benefit to battery powered portable transceiver units, requires the use of more wireless access devices to cover a premises. Lower power transmissions might also or alternately require a mode having a wider spreading bandwidth or slower data transfer rate to overcome the lower received signal strength. In other cells that have minimal battery power concerns and little or no noise, a spread spectrum mode may be chosen that provides higher data transmission rates. In yet other cells experiencing significant background noise, a direct sequence spreading mode may be employed that provides greater noise tolerance.","In addition to changing modes, the wireless access devices A-C also support changes to various mode parameters such as data segment sizes, chipping rates, spreading code lengths, etc. By supporting dynamic changes in operating modes and mode parameters, the communication network  attempts to accommodate any transceiving device that enters any cell. This flexibility allows for expansion without replacing existing equipment. An older radio transceiver may be able to participate with newer transceivers that may support newer modes of operation. The network  would attempt to accommodate such communication in a common, older mode of operation.","RF signals are inherently subject to what is termed \u201cmultipath fading\u201d. A signal received by a receiver is a composite of all signals that have reached that receiver by taking all available paths from the transmitter. The received signal is therefore often referred to as a \u201ccomposite signal\u201d which has a power envelope equal to the vector sum of the individual components of the multipath signals received. If the signals making up the composite signal are of amplitudes that add \u201cout of phase\u201d the desired data signal decreases in amplitude. If the signal amplitudes are approximately equal, an effective null (no detectable signal at the receiver) results. This condition is termed \u201cfading\u201d.","Normally changes in the propagation environment occur relatively slowly, i.e., over periods of time ranging from several tenths ( 1\/10's) of seconds to several seconds. However, in a mobile RF environment, receivers (or the corresponding transmitters) often travel over some distance in the course of receiving a message. Because the signal energy at each receiver is determined by the paths that the signal components take to reach that receiver, the relative motion between the receiver and the transmitter causes the receiver to experience rapid fluctuations in signal energy. Such rapid fluctuations can result in the loss of data if the amplitude of the received signal falls below the sensitivity of the receiver.","Over small distances, the signal components that determine the composite signal are well correlated, i.e., there is a small probability that a significant change in the signal power envelope will occur over the distance. If a transmission of a data packet can be initiated and completed before the relative movement between the receiver and transmitter exceeds the \u201csmall distance\u201d data loss to fading is unlikely to occur. The maximum \u201csmall distance\u201d wherein a high degree of correlation exists is referred to hereafter as the \u201ccorrelation distance\u201d.","As expressed in wavelengths of the carrier frequency, the correlation distance is on half (\u00bd) of the wavelength, while a more conservative value is one quarter (\u00bc) of the wavelength. Taking this correlation distance into consideration, the size of the data packet for segmentation purposes can be calculated. For example, at 915 MHz (a preferred RF transmission frequency), a quarter wavelength is about 8.2 centimeters. A mobile radio moving a ten (10) miles per hour, or 447 centimeters per second, travels the quarter wavelength in about 18.3 milliseconds. In such an environment, as long as the segment packet size remains well under 18.3 milliseconds, significant signal fluctuations during the duration of a packet transmission is unlikely. In such an preferred embodiment, five (5) millisecond data packet segments are chosen which provides a quasi-static multipath communication environment.","The faster the relative movement between a transmitter and a receiver the greater the effect of fading. Similarly, if the relative movement is slower, fading is less pronounced. In many communication environments, the degree of fading effects varies dramatically both from time to time and from installation to installation.","One example of a receiver making such a measurement of fading can be found in the abandoned patent application of Ronald L. Mahany, U.S. Ser. No. 07\/485,313, filed Feb. 26, 1990, which is incorporated herein by reference. Specifically, in that reference, a received signal strength indicator (RSSI) circuit is found in the receiver. The RSSI circuit sample the signal strength of a transmission. If the signal strength samples are evaluated in sequence and the trend analyzed, the degree of fading can be measured. If the signal strength samples decrease in value, it is likely that fading is present in the network.","A transceiver using direct-sequence spread spectrum transmission uses a spreading-code of a higher frequency than that of the data rate to encode the data to be sent. This higher frequency is achieved by increasing the chip clock rate (wherein each chip constitutes an element of the spreading-code). Using the same spreading code, the receiver decodes the received signal while ignoring minor faults which occurred in transmission, providing noise immunity and multi-path signal rejection. The frequency and length of the spreading-code can be varied to offer more or less multi-path signal rejection or noise immunity. Although it may result in improved communication, increasing the frequency or length of the spreading-code requires additional overhead which may not be justifiable unless necessary.","Frequency-hopping is the switching of transmission frequencies according to a sequence that is fixed or pseudo-random and that is available to both the transmitter and receiver. Adaptation to the communication environment via an exchange in frequency-hopping operating parameters is possible, for example, via selective control of the hopping rate or through the use of coding or interleaving. The greater the degree of frequency selectivity of the fading envelope (i.e., when fading is significant only over a portion of the spectrum of hopping frequencies), the greater the benefit of such adaptation.","Particularly, a parameter indicating the hopping rate can be varied to minimize the probability that the channel characteristics will detrimentally change during the course of a communication exchange. To vary the hopping rate is to vary the length of a hopping frame. Although multiple data (or message) exchanges per hopping frame is contemplated, the preferred hopping frame consists of a single exchange of data, For example, in a polling environment, the hopping frame might consist of: 1) a base station transmitting a polling packet to a roaming terminal; 2) the roaming terminal transmitting data in response; and 3) the base station responding in turn by transmitting an acknowledge packet. Each hopping frame exchange occurs at a different pseudo-randomly chosen frequency.","For optimization, the hop frame length is adjusted to be as long as possible, while remaining shorter than the coherence time of the channel by some safety margin. Although such adjustment does not eliminate the effects of fading, it increases the probability that the characteristics of the channel will remain consistent during each hopping frame. Thus, in the preferred embodiment, if the polling packet transmission is successfully received, the probability of successful receipt of the data (or message) and acknowledge is high.","Another parameter for changing frequency-hopping performance is that of coding. Coding on the channel for error correction purposes can be selectively used whenever the probability of data or message loss due to fading is high. In particular, coding methods which provide burst error correction, e.g., Reed-Solomon coding, can be applied if the hop length is likely to exceed the coherence time of the channel. Such coding methods allow some portion of the data to be lost and reconstructed at the expense of a 30-50% reduction in throughput. The operating parameter for coding indicates whether coding should be used and, if so, the type of coding to be used.","An operating parameter indicating whether interleaving should be used also help to optimize the communication channel. Interleaving involves breaking down the data into segments which are redundantly transmitted in different hopping frames. For example, in a three segment exchange, the first and second segments are sequentially combined and sent during a first hopping frame. In a subsequent hopping frame, the second and third segments are sequentially combined and transmitted in a third hopping frame. The receiving transceiver compares each segment received with the redundantly received segment to verify that the transmission was successful. I errors are detected, further transmissions must be made until verification is achieved. Once achieved, the transceiver reconstructs the data from the segments.","Other methods of interleaving are also contemplated. For example, a simpler form of interleaving would be to sequentially send the data twice without segmentation on two different frequencies (i.e., on two successive hops).","As can be appreciated, interleaving provides for a redundancy check but at the expense of data or message throughput. The interleaving parameter determines whether interleaving is to be used and, if so, the specific method of interleaving.","In addition, any combination of the above frequency-hopping parameters might interact to define an overall operating configuration, different from what might be expected from the sum of the individual operating parameters. For example, selecting interleaving and coding, through their respective parameters, might result in a more complex combination scheme which combines segmentation and error correction in some alternate fashion.","In the United States, data communication equipment operating in the ultra-high frequency (UHF) range under conditions of frequency modulation (FM) is subject to the following limitations.\n\n","For non-return to zero (NRZ) data modulation, the highest modulating frequency is equal to one half the data rate in a baud. Maximum deviation of five kilohertz may be utilized for a highest modulation frequency which is less than three kilohertz, but lower deviations are generally required for higher modulation frequencies. Thus, at a rate of ten thousand baud, and an occupied bandwidth of sixteen kilohertz, the peak FM deviation which can be utilized for NRZ data may be three kilohertz or less.","Considerations of cost versus performance tradeoffs are the major reason for the selection of the frequency modulation approach used in the system. The approach utilizes shaped non-return-to-zero (NRZ) data for bandwidth efficiency and non-coherent demodulation using a limited-discriminator detector for reasonable performance at weak RF signal levels. However, the channel bandwidth constraints limit the maximum data \u201chigh\u201d data rate that can be utilized for transmitting NRZ coded data. Significant improvements in system throughput potential can be realized within the allotted bandwidth by extending the concept of adaptively selecting data rate to include switching between source encoding methods. The preferred approach is to continue to use NRZ coding for the lower system data rate and substitute partial response (PR) encoding for the higher rate. The throughput improvements of NRZ\/PR scheme over an HRZ\/NRZ implementation are obtained at the expense of additional complexity in the baseband processing circuitry. An example of a transceiver using such an approach can be found in the previously incorporated patent application of Ronald L. Mahany, U.S. Ser. No. 07\/485,313, filed Feb. 26, 1990.","Partial response encoding methods are line coding techniques which allow a potential doubling of the data rate over NRZ encoding using the same baseband bandwidth. Examples of PR encoding methods include duobinary and modified duobinary encoding. Bandwidth efficiency is improved by converting binary data into three level, or pseudo-ternary signals. Because the receiver decision circuitry must distinguish between three instead of two levels, there is a signal to noise (range) penalty for using PR encoding. In an adaptive baud rate switching system, the effects of this degradation are eliminated by appropriate selection of the baud rate switching threshold.","Since PR encoding offers a doubling of the data rate of NRZ encoded data in the same bandwidth, one possible implementation of a NRZ\/PR baud rate switching system would be a 4800\/9600 bit\/sec system in which the low-pass filter bandwidth is not switched. This might be desirable for example if complex low-pass filters constructed of discrete components had to be used. Use of a single filter could reduce circuit costs and printed circuit board area requirements. This approach might also be desirable if the channel bandwidth were reduced below what is currently available.","The implementation with bandwidth available is to use PR encoding to increase the high data rate well beyond the 9600 bit\/sec implementation previously described. An approach using 4800 bit\/sec NRZ encoded data for the low rate thereby providing high reliability and backward compatibility with existing products, and 16 K bit\/sec PR encoded transmission for the high rate may be utilized. The PR encoding techniques is a hybrid form similar to duobinary and several of its variants which has been devised to aid decoding, minimize the increase in hardware complexity, and provide similar performance characteristics to that of the previously described 4800\/9600 bit\/sec implementation. While PR encoding could potentially provide a high data rate of up to 20 K bit\/sec in the available channel bandwidth, 16 K bit\/sec is preferable because of the practical constraints imposed by oscillator temperature stability and the distortion characteristics of IF bandpass filters.","All of the above referenced parameters must be maintained in local memory at both the transmitter and the receiver so that successful communication can occur. To change the communication environment by changing an operating parameter requires both synchronization between the transceivers and a method for recovering in case synchronization fails.","In one embodiment, if a transceiver receiving a transmission (hereinafter referred to as the \u201cdestination\u201d) determines that an operating parameter needs to be changed, it must transmit a request for change to the transceiver sending the transmission (hereinafter the \u201csource\u201d). If received, the source may send an first acknowledge to the destination based on the current operating parameter. Thereafter, the source modifies its currently stored operating parameter, stores the modification, and awaits a transmission from the destination based on the newly stored operating parameter. The source may also send a \u201cno acknowledge\u201d message, rejecting the requested modification.","If the first acknowledge message is received, the destination modifies its currently stored operating parameter, stores the modification, sends a verification message based on the newly stored operating parameter, and awaits a second acknowledge message from the source. If the destination does not receive the first acknowledge is not received, the destination modifies the currently stored parameter, stores the modification as the new operating parameter, and, based on the new parameter, transmits a request for acknowledge. If the source has already made the operating parameter modification (i.e., the destination did not properly receive the first acknowledge message), the destination receives the request based on the new parameters and response with a second acknowledge. After the second acknowledge is received, communication between the source and destination based on the newly stored operating parameter begins.","If the destination does not receive either the first or the second acknowledge messages from the source after repeated requests, the destination replaces the current operating parameter with a factory preset system-default (which is also loaded upon power-up). Thereafter, using the system-default, the destination transmits repeated requests for acknowledge until receiving a response from the source. The system-default parameters preferably define the most robust configuration for communication.","If after a time-out period the second request for acknowledge based on the newly stored operating parameters is not received, the source restores the previously modified operating parameters and listens for a request for acknowledge. If after a further time-out period a request for acknowledge is not received, the source replaces the current operating parameter with the factory preset system-default (which is the same as that stored in the destination, and which is also loaded upon power-up). Thereafter, using the common system-default, the source listens for an acknowledge request from the destination. Once received, communication is re-established.","Other synchronization and recovery methods are also contemplated. For example, instead of acknowledge requests originating solely from the destination, the source might also participate in such requests. Similarly, although a polling protocol is used to carry out the communication exchanges described above, carrier-sense multiple-access (CSMA) or busy tone protocols might alternately be used.","In the embodiment illustrated in , various modes of operation are dynamically controlled by the wireless access devices A-C. Such control involves the consideration by each wireless access device of many factors such as: 1) received signal strength; 2) success\/fail rates; 3) mode capabilities of participating devices; 4) neighboring access device operation and performance; 5) application support required; and 6) power concerns. In addition to modifying the parameters of a particular mode (as previously mentioned), the wireless access devices may also select from a plurality of modes (as described in more detail below in reference to ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0116","num":"0118"},"figref":"FIG. 1B","b":["401","403","403","405","407"]},"If the requesting device is capable of operating in the currently selected mode, as determined at a block , the wireless access device communicates mode information and parameters to the requesting transceiver at a block . Thereafter, the wireless access device returns to the block  and services all participating devices including the requesting device in the current mode with current parameters.","Alternatively, if the requesting device has a limited number of operating modes, at the block  the current mode may not be a possibility. If the requesting device is not capable of operating in the current mode, the wireless access device attempts to select a new mode at a block . If at least one common mode can be found, e.g., if all the participating devices and the requesting device have at least one common mode, the wireless access device chooses the common mode that it believes will offer optimal performance. Thereafter, at a block , the wireless access device communicates the selected mode and parameter information to the requesting transceiver at the block  and returns to the block . At the block , because a new mode has been selected, the wireless access device vectors to service the event at a block . At a block , the wireless access device broadcasts the mode and parameter information, and, at a block , changes its own mode. Thereafter, the wireless access device returns to service ongoing communication in that mode at the block .","If however a common mode cannot be found for a requesting transceiver at the block , the requesting transceiver is rejected from participating. In such a case, the customer must identify the radios causing the limitations and upgrade them. In another embodiment, the wireless access device operates in a time shared configurations, switching between two or more modes in a sequential fashion. In this embodiment, however, the overall delays in the system may still justify upgrading the radio transceiver(s) causing the limitations.","During the course of ongoing operation at the block , the wireless access device monitors channel performance (a variety of factors described in more detail above), and compares such performance to available other common modes of operation and considers potential parameter modifications: In particular, as represented by the block , if channel conditions degrade below a predefined threshold, the wireless access device vectors to consider changing modes. At a block , the wireless access device consults the mode table. If a new mode is available and warranted, per a determination at a block , the wireless access device responds by selecting an alternate common mode at the block , resets the conditions that caused the vectoring and returns to the block  to complete the mode change via the blocks ,  and . Similarly, each time a participating transceiver detaches from the cell (through either active detachment or aging) as represented by an event block , the wireless access device removes that transceiving device's mode information from active status in the mode table and attempts to choose a better common mode via the blocks , ,  and . Although not shown, the wireless access device might also periodically attempt to choose a better common mode, without requiring channel conditions to change or degrade or participants to detach.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0121","num":"0123"},"figref":"FIG. 1C","b":["501","503","505","507","509","511","513"]},"The control circuitry  manages the operation of the other components of the transceiver module . The control circuitry  receives instructions and data to be transmitted from a host unit (not shown) via a wired communication link . The control circuitry  deliver such data to the modulator  for modulation (and possibly spreading). Thereafter, the data is delivered to the antenna  via the switch . Data and control signals received by the antenna  passes through the switch  to the demodulator  for demodulation (and possibly despreading). The control circuitry  receives the demodulated data or control signals for processing and\/or delivery to the host unit through the link .","The control circuitry  causes the selection of operating parameters and modes as described previously and in reference to . Specifically, the control circuitry  sets the configuration of the modulator , demodulator  and oscillator . For example, to operate in a direct sequence spread spectrum mode, the control circuitry : 1) sets the base frequency of the oscillator ; 2) sets related mode parameters such as the chipping rate; and 3) delivers enable signals and a spreading code to a spreader circuit  and despreader circuit  of the modulator  and demodulator , respectively. To operate in a frequency hopping mode, the control circuitry : 1) establishes related parameter settings; 2) disables the spreading and despreading circuits  and ; 3) selects a hopping sequence of frequencies; and 4) directs the oscillator  through the sequence. To operate in a hybrid, direct sequence, frequency hopping mode, the control circuitry : 1) establishes related parameter settings; 2) delivers enable signals and a spreading code to a spreader circuit  and despreader circuit ; 3) selects a hopping sequence of frequencies; and 4) directs the oscillator  through the sequence. Similarly, the control circuitry  may select any modes, e.g., the modes identified in reference to  below, and set all parameters related thereto.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0124","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIG. 1D","FIG. 1C","FIG. 1C","FIG. 1B"],"b":["501","523","523","525","527","529","525","523","501","525","525","525","501"]},"When installed in a portable\/mobile or stationary transceiver unit (e.g., peripheral device, code reader, hand-held terminal, etc.), a transceiver module responds to communication control through commands received from the wireless access device while attempting to attach. Such commands direct the mode and parameters of operation of the transceiver module in the transceiver unit. In addition, the control circuitry of the transceiver module  directs entry of a default mode and default parameters prior to receiving direction from a wireless access device. Although the transceiver module  may receive additional mode and parameter commands from the host controller within the transceiver unit, it need not do so. Such local control by a transceiver unit, however, may prove advantageous in other wireless network embodiments or in specific applications. For example, other network embodiments might involve only two transceiver units without a wireless access device. As such, the transceiver units may negotiate a mode and related parameters amongst themselves, controlling such changes via host processors within the transceiver units. Negotiation of mode and parameter changes might also involve channel condition monitoring or other factors currently assigned to the wireless access device.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0126","num":"0128"},"figref":["FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["10","10","10"]},"The data terminal  includes an antenna  is disposed at the top end  of the data terminal for radio frequency transmission and reception. The data terminal may include a display screen  for displaying program information and for interfacing the operator with the data terminal . The display screen  may be a reflective super-twist liquid crystal display (LCD), for example. The data terminal  may include a keypad  having a plurality of keys for entering data into the data terminal  and for control of the data terminal  by the operator.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0128","num":"0130"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A","FIG. 2A"],"b":["10","10","20","12","20","20","24","26","20","20","20","28","20"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0131"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2B","FIG. 2B"],"b":["10","30","20","30","20","30","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0130","num":"0132"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2B"],"b":["10","20","20","10","32","20","10","34","20","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0131","num":"0133"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A","FIG. 3"],"b":["4","4","30","340","342","344","340","30","346","340","346","30","348","30","10","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0132","num":"0134"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["36","36","38","40"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0133","num":"0135"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["36","38","38","42"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0134","num":"0136"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"],"b":["30","30","30","30","44","44"]},"In embodiment of , the radio module CCA  is contained within a metallic radio cover  to provide electromagnetic shielding of the radio CCA . The radio CCA  and radio cover  may be attached to a mounting frame  which provides supporting structure for the internal components of the radio module . Radio cover  and mounting frame  may be fabricated of ABS type plastic or of a conductive metal to provide electromagnetic shielding. The radio CCA  and the radio cover  may be attached to the mounting frame  by a plurality of fasteners  which may be four #2 screws in a preferred embodiment.","An internal antenna  may be connected to the radio circuitry of the radio CCA  in lieu of the external linear antenna  shown in  and completely contained within the radio module . The radio module  may utilize the antenna means of U.S. Pat. No. 5,322,991 issued Jun. 21, 1994 and assigned to NORAND Corporation of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, the assignee of the present application, Said U.S. Pat. No. 5,322,991 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The antenna  may comprise a quarter-wavelength single loop of wire of approximately 83 mm for transmissions near 900 MHz. When the loop antenna  is driven by the output of the radio module , a uniform circulatory current flowing through the antenna  results in a radiation pattern similar to that of a magnetic dipole. The antenna  preferably has a nominal impedance of 50 S.","An internal shield  may be utilized and inserted between the radio circuit card assembly (CCA)  and the radio interface card (RIC)  which contains the electronic circuitry necessary6 to interface the electronics of the radio CCA  with the electronics of the data terminal  of . The radio interface card  may be a type used for a 2.4 GHz radio since the interface to the radio CCA  is baseband. The 900 MHz radio  of the present invention may be designed to appear as a 2.4 GHz radio accepting the same frequency control inputs and employing the same media access control protocols as a 2.4 GHz radio.","Electrical connectors  may be mounted at an end of the radio interface card  for providing electrical connection to the CPU board (not shown) of the portable data terminal with which the radio module  is utilized, such as terminal  of . A mounting fastener , which may be a screw, fastens the radio interface card to the radio module assembly . An acoustic-electric transducer such as buzzer  may be included with the radio module  and electronically connected to the radio CCA  5to provide the operator with audio information and cues, for example a beep or buzz when the radio module  is powered on. Frame mounting screws  may be utilized to fasten the assembly to the outer shell  via mounting frame . The entire module assembly may be wrapped in a metallic foil to provide electromagnetic shielding to the radio module . The outer shell  is preferably a type of ABS plastic and is formed to modularly and contiguously fit the recession  of the data terminal  as shown in .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0141"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 2B and 4","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"b":["20","20","30","20","20","58","60","48","56","44","52","46","64"]},"In addition to the above components, the radio\/scanner module  includes a scanner printed circuit board  on which the scanner electronic circuitry are mounted. A flex circuit connection assembly  may be utilized to interconnect the electronic circuitry, such as the circuitry of scanner card  and interface card . The outer shell  of the radio scanner module is substantially similar to the outer shell  of radio module  as shown in , modified to accommodate the additional components of the radio\/scanner module .","A rubber nose end cap  may be attached to the forward end of the outer shell  for providing impact shock absorption and protection. A seal label  may be used to provide an adhesive seal between rubber nose end cap  and outer shell . A lens  mounted with a lens seal support  may be disposed in the rubber end cap  to provide a sealed light aperture for the scanner circuitry. Scanning of an optically readable data file may be controlled with a scam button  which covers am input keyboard and elastomer  and is supported by a scan button bezel  mounted in a button aperture  on a side of the outer shell . The radio\/scanner may have a plurality of scan or input buttons . For example, an additional button may be provided on the side of the outer shell  opposite the button  shown in .","Frame mounting screws  are provided to mount the mounting frame  containing the module assembly to the outer shell . The outer shell  and radio\/scanner module are formed to modularly and contiguously attach to the data terminal  as illustrated in  in a manner substantially similar the attachment of radio module  to data terminal . The entire module assembly  may be wrapped in a metallic foil to provide electromagnetic shielding to the radio module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0143","num":"0145"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 6","FIGS. 7 and 8"],"b":["42","42","58","44","44","44","58","58","42","44","68","94","58","44","20","30","42"]},"Standoffs  may be soldered directly to the radio interface card  and are provided to separate the radio CCA  from the radio interface card  and to provide attachment thereto with fasteners  (preferably #2-56 screws). The screws  preferably attach the radio CCA  to a custom PCMCIA Type III frame  which provides structural support and protection of the circuit boards  and . A PCMCIA electrical receptacle  may be provided to electrically connect the radio module to standard PCMCIA connectors in the electronic equipment in which the module  is to be utilized, such as the data terminal  of .","An antenna connector  may be mounted on the radio CCA  for connection of the module to an antenna which may be, for example, the antenna  of , the antenna  of  of the antenna means of U.S. Pat. No. 5,322,991 issued Jun. 21, 1994 incorporated herein. Alternate antenna clips  may be utilized for adapting the radio module  to various antenna connection configurations.","The PCMCIA radio module  may be contained within top and bottom covers  and  respectively which are preferably comprised of tin plated cold rolled steel. The module covers  and  may provide two way electromagnetic shielding of the radio frequency circuitry. When the radio module  is assembled and contained within top cover  and bottom cover  the module preferably conforms to PCMCIA Type III dimensions. The module  may also be adapted to conform to PCMCIA Type II or Type I dimensions as well.","The transceiver module as shown in  may be utilized in a standard desktop or portable computer such as a laptop computer which is designed to utilize standard PCMCIA computer modules. The portable computer may be implemented as part of a multilayered communication network such as a communications node to communicate, for example, with several data terminal in a connected wired network, as well as with nodes in the wireless network. In this fashion, the computer could serve as a wireless access point, a wireless access server, or another type of wireless device providing access to the wireless network. A preferred embodiment of the present invention implements Layer 1 (the physical layer) and the medium access control (MAC) sub-layer of Layer 2 (the data link layer) of the International Standards Organization Reference Model (ISORM) operating under an ODI or NDIS driver. A driver interface to the MAC sub-layer allows the utilization of industry standard multi-layer communications protocol above the MAC sub-layer.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0148","num":"0150"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["20","30","42"]},"The antenna section includes an antenna  for transmitting and receiving radio frequency energy. The antenna  may be one of the antennas described in the discussion of ,  and . The radio circuitry corresponds to the radio circuitry of the radio CCA  of ,  and  and contains the receiver circuitry , the transmitter circuitry  and the frequency generator (\u201cFREQ. GENERATOR\u201d) .","The radio frequency (RF) transceiver  of the present invention comprises a receiver  and a transmitter . The transmitter  preferably comprises a data formatter and spreader (\u201cBASE BAND FORMATTER\/SPREADER\u201d) , a selectable transversal filter  comprising programmable transversal filters (\u201cPROGRAMMABLE TRANSVERSAL FILTER\u201d)  and  (See ), a binary phase shift keying (BPSK) modulator (\u201cBPSK MODULATOR\u201d) , and a transmitter up converter and linear transmit power amplifier (\u201cTX UP CONVERTER & AMP\u201d) . The receiver  preferably comprises a receiver down converter , a selectable bandwidth intermediate frequency (IF) stage (\u201cSELECTABLE BW IF\u201d) at a fixed IF center frequency, a non coherent I\/Q base band converter (\u201cBASEBAND CONVERTER\u201d), and a demodulator\/despreader (\u201cDEMOD. DESPREAD.\u201d).","A common radio frequency bandpass filter (\u201cBPF\u201d)  is shared by both the transmitter  and the receiver . The transceiver  is coupled to an antenna  through an antenna switch circuit . A frequency generator  is common to both the receiver  and the transmitter , producing a frequency agile main VCO output (\u201cMAIN VCO\u201d) , and an auxiliary output (\u201cAUX VCO\u201d)  at twice the IF frequency. A divide by 2 circuit ( and ) in the transmit path of the auxiliary VCO signal  is activated when the transceiver  is switched to the transmit mode.","The transmit operation the media access control (MAC) microprocessor (\u201cMAC \u03bcP\u201d)  enables the various transmit circuits through the control bus (see CONTROL of ). In particular, however, the MAC \u03bcP  controls the various components illustrated in  as illustrated. However, in other embodiments of the present invention, the MAC \u03bcP  may control only a portion of the components or even more of the components. To implement the teachings of the present invention, the MAC \u03bcP  controls the various elements illustrated in  so as to perform transmission and reception in any of the various spread spectrum modes. In order to accomplish such various modes, the MAC \u03bcP  must control the frequency generator  to cause modulation over all of a spreading bandwidth via variations in the MAIN VCO frequency. In addition, the MAC \u03bcP  provides control to the modulator , RECEIVER DOWN CONVERTER , TX UP CONVERTER & AMP , the SELECTABLE BW IF , the MODULATOR , the SELECTABLE TRANSVERSAL FILTER , the DEMODULATOR DESPREADER , and the FORMATTER\/SPREADER  in order to cause the circuitry to perform in the various spread spectrum modes.","As is known, each of the various spread spectrum modes requires packaging, modulating, transmitting, and receiving data in particular formats and frequencies. Thus, the MAC \u03bcP  provides control over the elements illustrated in  in a fashion so as to enable each of the various spread spectrum modes. Techniques known in the art may be employed to cause the components illustrated in  to perform in particular spread spectrum modes.","The functions of the baseband formatter\/spreader  may be contained in a digital application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, (not shown) with circuitry configurable to the desired transmission mode by the control microprocessor . The ASIC preferably produces a clock at the correct data rate for the selected mode which is used to time serial transfer of a data frame from the transmit data output of the MAC \u03bcP  (see TXD of ).","In the direct sequence (DS) modes, the data is mapped into I\/Q symbols for either BPSK or QPSK modulation. The ASIC generates a synchronous chip clock at a multiple of the symbol rate that is applied to the pseudo-random number (PN) generator of  to produce a chipping sequence at the selected spreading ratio. The exact chipping sequence is selected by programming the feedback select of . The chipping sequence is multiplied with the I\/Q data symbols by use of exclusive OR gates. The selected data rate and spreading ratio determine the main lobe bandwidth of the transmitted signal. The bandwidth of the main lobe and side lobes are reduced by applying the transversal filters ( and  of ), which comprise circuitry of the transversal filter  of  with the shift registers operating at the chipping rate rather than the symbol rate. The main lobe bandwidth is limited to approximately 1.6 times the chip clock frequency.","The remainder of the Transmitter  is a standard I\/Q modem. The I\/Q waveforms are applied to a quadrature PSK modulator operating at \u00bd the Auxiliary VCO frequency. The modulated signal is filtered to reduce harmonic content, then undergoes a second conversion with the Main VCO output  to produce a final output frequency. This signal is filtered to reduce the image of the mix product from this second conversion, and then amplified by the antenna  through the antenna switch  and RF bandpass filter .","In the receive mode, the receiver circuitry  is switched on and the transmitter circuitry switched off through the control interface. Incoming signals present at the antenna are amplified and converted to the IF frequency by mixing with the main VCO output . The output of the receiver down converter  is applied to the selectable bandwidth IF filter , which is programmed to the correct bandwidth for the selected mode of operation by the MAC \u03bcP . The filters ,  and  provide rejection of out of band signals for the selected signal bandwidth.","The filtered output is applied to a limiting amplifier, then to the I\/Q baseband converter . The limiter  produces a received signal strength indication that is proportional to log of the signal energy in the IF. This is applied to an A\/D converter  then to the control \u03bcP . This function is useful for detecting proximity to the transmitting unit, or to an interferor, and is also useful as an OOK detector.","The baseband converter  contains an internal divide-by-two circuit which produces a carrier at \u00bd the Auxiliary VCO frequency which is also at the nominal IF frequency. This is mixed with the limited IF signal to produce baseband I\/Q waveforms. These in turn are applied to comparators that serve as hard decision circuits, then to the correlator  (see ) within the ASIC.","The frequency generation system  must be programmed to produce the Main VCO output. A serial interface within the control bus provides this capability. In the DS modes the Main VCO is programmed to the correct channel frequency and remains there until a mode change or the need to avoid interference is detected. For wideband DS operation, The Main VCO is programmed to the center of the frequency range.","For FH or hybrid operation, i.e., frequency hopping combined with direct sequence operation, the Main VCO is periodically reprogrammed to provide the hopping function. The MAC \u03bcP  maintains a timer, and table of channels representing the hop sequence. When the timer expires, the MAC \u03bcP initiates the hop to the next frequency in the sequence. Frames passed between the various devices within the WLAN establish shared timing references so that all units hop in synchronism.","The MAC \u03bcP  provides mode control, host interface, transmit frame generation, channel access control, receive frame processing, retries of erred packets, power management of radio circuitry, and frequency hopping control. The frequency hopping control is a superset of the remaining functions, allowing common programming of the remaining functions for both DS and FH.","The host interface for the PCMCIA version is compliant with the PCMCIA physical interface. The software interface is structured to comply with the factory industry standards NDIS and ODI formats.","Data to be transmitted is sent via a bus  to the MAC circuitry  from a host unit. The data to be transmitted is be modulated by the modulator  and frequency controlled by the spreader  according to the particular spread spectrum transmission mode to be utilized. The spreader  receives a chipping clock input that is at a frequency multiple of the source data frequency. The output of the spreader  is sent to the transmitter up converter and amplifier  to transmit the RF data signal through the antenna .","The radio modules of the present invention may utilize several modes of spread spectrum RF data transmission. In one embodiment of the present invention, the various modes can be user selectable depending upon the particular application in which the radio modules are to be utilized. In another embodiment, the modes of operation are be automatically and dynamically selected, e.g., by the MAC \u03bcP  based upon criteria previously described. Such selection might also be performed by or with the assistance of the terminal unit or a digital signal processor provided for such task.","In a particular example, a microprocessor in the host terminal may retrieve stored modes of operation utilized on the previous day to which a higher logical multiplier is used to determine which transmission mode or modes are to be selected for that day's data transmissions. Additionally, data such as the average signal strength, most frequently utilizes transmission mode, the average level of interference and noise for a particular mode or transmission success rate (e.g. percentages of transmissions) may be saved in nonvolatile memory and factored into the mode selection routine.","A description of particular spread spectrum modes follows in Table 1. The modulation techniques as described in Table 1 may be direct sequencing (DS), frequency hopping (FH) or on-off-keying (OOK) or a combination thereof. The rate at which data may be transmitted is given is kilobits per second (kb\/s) and the channel bandwidth is given for each mode for the operation frequency range of 902 to 928 MHz. The full bandwidth of an embodiment of the radio is 26 MHz Table 1.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0168","num":"0170"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Spread Spectrum Transmission Modes"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"MODULATION","DATA",{}]},{"entry":["MODE","TECHNIQUE","RATE","BANDWIDTH"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":["1","DS","\u2009250 kb\/s","full band"]},{"entry":["2","CHANNELIZED DS","\u2009250 kb\/s","5 channel"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"5 MHz"]},{"entry":["3","DS","500 kb\/s","full band"]},{"entry":["4","FH","250 kb\/s","50 channels"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"500 kHz"]},{"entry":["5","FH\/DS","\u2009\u200210 kb\/s","50 channels"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"\u2009500 kHz"]},{"entry":["6","OOK","19.2 kb\/s","50 channels"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"500 kHz"]},{"entry":["7","DS","\u2009\u200210 kb\/s","50 channels"]},{"entry":[{},{},{},"500 kHz"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"4","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"The various spread spectrum modes are utilized to obtain optimum performance for particular modes of operation of the data terminal. The radio of the present invention preferably has a transmission range of up to 300 feet for closely spaced interior surfaces and up to 1300 feet in open spaces resulting in an operational coverage area from 280,000 to 5,300,000 square feet.","Utilization of the various transmissions modes results in variable immunity of the data signals from RF interference. The data terminal in which the radio is utilized thereby has the ability to extract the best system performance in every application regardless of multipath signal levels, interference levels and the sources thereof. The data terminal also thereby has the ability to dynamically trade data rate in return for coverage range (coverage range being a function of process gain) without the need to change radio hardware. Although not shown, capable of operating in the 2.4 GHz circuitry of  or other frequency ranges. Multiple intermediate frequency filter topology may be implemented to achieve interference rejection via varying filter selectivity.","MODES  and  are full band direct sequence and provide no inband interference protection other than high process gains of 18.7 dB and 15.7 dB respectively. Out-of-band protection from cellular transmissions operating in the vicinity is provided. MODE  provides good coverage area and rejection of multipath signal. MODE  provides shorter coverage are in return for a high speed data rate.","MODE  is a channelized direct sequence mode having a process gain of 17 dB. A single direct sequence cordless telephone operating in the vicinity will not degrade performance on at least four of the channels. MODE  provides a reasonable coverage area and jammer avoidance with channelization.","MODE  utilizes full band frequency hopping having a process gain of 17.1 dB. A single direct sequence cordless telephone will not degrade average throughput by more than 10 percent. MODE  provides moderate coverage area and high system capacity with dynamic jammer immunity with frequency hoping.","MODE  is a direct sequence mode which is frequency hopped having a process gain of 37 dB. A single direct sequence cordless telephone operating in the vicinity will not degrade average throughput by more than 10 percent. MODE  provides a long and high coverage area and dynamic jammer immunity with frequency hopping in return for a low data rate.","MODE  is an on-off-keying (OOK) modulation mode having a process gain of 0 dB. MODE  may be utilized as a low speed, low power link to a nearby scanner or printer for example.","MODE  the transceiver module is intended to communicator with peripheral devices containing simple AM transceivers. The Main VCO is set to the center frequency of the peripheral AM receiver. For OOK transmission, the data formatter is configured to produce a CW output signal. OOK signaling is providing by strobing the enable line on the transmitter, shown in .","For OOK reception, the Main VCO is set to receive at the AM transmitter center frequency. The RSSI output from the limiting amplifier is used for AM detection. The signaling rate is limited by the speed at which the A\/D can quantize the RSSI (preferably sampling several times per symbol), and at which the MAC \u03bcP can process the sampled data to extract the modulation.","MODE  is a channelized direct sequence mode having a process gain of 20 dB. A single cordless telephone operating in the vicinity will not degrade performance on more than nine of the channels.","Other modes may also be included other than those listed above. Other possibly included modes may be variations or new combinations of the above modes or modes utilizing different modulation techniques and frequencies such as other standard RF transmission techniques which may be contemplated by the present invention. For example, an additional mode in an alternative embodiment may include voice communications transmissions utilizing standard audio modulation techniques achieved by switching channels or transmissions modes. Using voice communications the transceiver module may allow data terminal operators of a multi-level radio-frequency communications network to verbally communicate with one another or their supervisors throughout the entire network. Voice and data communications may be utilized with a single portable battery powered electronic device rather than having a data terminal for data communications and a separate mobile radio for voice communications, for example. Similarly, the process gains, sampling rates, etc., are exemplary value which may be modified as proves desirable.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0180","num":"0182"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"],"b":["128","150","146","148","136","138","140","320","142"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0181","num":"0183"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"],"b":["112","152","158","154","158","154","128","158","160","162"],"sup":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0182","num":"0184"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIGS. 7"],"b":["114","114","44","8","9","170","164","112","164","164","164"]},"The output of the preselector filter  is fed into two low noise RF amplifiers (LNA)  and  each of which preferably has a gain of 10 and a noise figure of 2.2 dB. The gain of the RF amplifies  and  is sufficient to overcome any noise which may be present on the input RF data signal. The amplified signal may be sent to a bandpass filter (BPF)  for additional preselection filtering. Bandpass filter  is preferably designed to have four poles to provide high stop band rejection of possible signal images present in the data signal, having design values of 915 MHz center frequency, bandwidth of 26 MHz and an insertion loss of 3.5 dB. Bandpass filter  could also be controlled to provide desired filtering characteristics.","The output of filter  is sent to the input of a mixer (\u201cMIXER\u201d)  which mixes the data signal with the output  from the main voltage controlled oscillator of the frequency generator circuitry  of  which preferably has an output frequency of 844 MHz. The output of the mixer  is passed through an additional bandpass filter  having a center frequency of 71 MHz, a 26 MHz bandwidth and insertion loss of 2.0.","The data signal is passed through an intermediate frequency selectable bandwidth filter  comprising filters ,  and  for signal path , which varies the filtering of the data signal according to the various modes of operation. Bandpass filter  is utilized for MODE  operation and has a bandwidth of 5 MHz and an insertion loss of 8 dB. MODES  and  utilize a direct signal path  with an overall bandwidth of 26 MHz from the output of filter . MODES , ,  and  utilize bandpass filter  which has a bandwidth of 500 kHz and an insertion loss of 8 dB. Multiple intermediate frequency filter topologies may be implemented to achieve interference rejection via varying filter selectivity.","The data signal is fed into an intermediate frequency amplifier (IF)  to overcome the losses from the filters. The IF amplifier  is a high gain amplifier having a gain and a noise factor of 7 dB. The output of the IF amplifier  drives the demodulator  which also receives the output from the auxiliary voltage controlled oscillator of the frequency generator circuitry  of  which may operate at a frequency of 142 MHz. The demodulator  may have data signal products I and Q which are fed into the inputs of the despreader circuitry  of . The receiver  may have a noise figure of less than 7 dB, an image rejection figure of 60 dB and adjacent channel rejection of 40 dB.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0187","num":"0189"},"figref":["FIGS. 14A and 14B","FIG. 10","FIGS. 7","FIG. 10"],"b":["122","150","122","58","8","9","122","122","186","188","190","122","128"]},"In the frequency hop (FH) mode, data is converted to an I\/Q format for minimum shift keying (MSK) modulation. Narrowband modulation is preferably employed so the spreader function may disabled. The power spectral density of MSK modulation exhibits a main lobe bandwidth of approximately 1.5 times the symbol rate, but also contains substantial energy in the side lobes. This energy might create interference to other in-band or out of band systems and may also degrade operation if several frequency hopping sequences are used for increased throughput or multiple access. To reduce side lobe energy, transversal filtering is employed in the I\/Q modulation paths. These consist of shift registers clocked at the symbol rate or a multiple thereof. The digital outputs from the shift registers are summed using a weighted resistor ladder ( and ) is external to the ASIC and constitutes the interface between digital and analog processing.","In the direct sequence (DS) modes, the data is mapped into I\/Q symbols for either BPSK or QPSK modulation. The ASIC generates a synchronous chip clock at a multiple of the symbol rate that is applied to the pseudo-random number generator  to produce a chipping sequence at the selected spreading ratio. The exact chipping sequence is selected by programming the feedback select . The chipping sequence is multiplied with the I\/Q data symbols by use of exclusive OR gates ( and ). The selected data rate and spreading ration determine the main lobe bandwidth of the transmitted signal. The bandwidths of the main lobe and side lobes are reduced by applying the transversal filters ( and ) with the shift registers operating at the chipping rate rather than the symbol rate. The main lobe bandwidth is preferably limited to approximately 1.6 times the chip clock frequency.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0190","num":"0192"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 10","FIGS. 7","FIGS. 7"],"b":["116","116","44","8","9","58","8","9","190","192","194","194","196","198","194"]},"The main VCO  preferably operates at a nominal frequency of 844 MHz while the auxiliary VCO  preferably operates at a nominal frequency of 142 MHz. The synthesizer  has loop filter feedback paths  and  to oscillators  and  respectively for control of the frequency of the outputs of the oscillators  and . The main VCO  supplies a signal to the down converter mixer  of the receiver  of  and provide a signal to the modulator  of the transmitter  of  after being fed through a divide by 2 circuit (\u201cDIVIDE BY 2\u201d) .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0192","num":"0194"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 10","FIGS. 7","FIG. 10","FIG. 15","FIG. 15"],"b":["118","118","44","8","9","118","124","130","198","196","206"]},"The output of the transmitter modulator  is preferably fed into a high pass filter (HPF)  having the data signal below the nominal carrier frequency of 900 MHz for single side band (SSB) transmission. The output of the high pass filter (BPF)  which preferably has a counter frequency of 915 MHz and a band width of 26 MHz. The output of bandpass filter  is fed into two amplifier (AMP)  preferably having a gain of 20 and a second amplifier (AMP)  preferably having a gain 30 to provide the necessary transmission output power. The power of the data signal at the output of amplifier  is nominally at least 1 watt which is fed through a lowpass filter (LPF)  and a bandpass filter (BPF) . Because of the insertion losses of the filters  and  of 0.7 dB and 3.3 dB respectively, the transmitter  has a nominal output power of at least 250 mW which is transmitted via antenna  of .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0194","num":"0196"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["330","332"]},"In DS modes the correlator  preferably extracts the data symbols from the chipping sequence. The decision and timing recovery block  outputs send the recovered data (\u201cDATA\u201d) and a clock signal (\u201cCLOCK\u201d) to the MAC \u03bcP  for frame processing.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0196","num":"0198"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 10","FIGS. 7"],"b":["128","128","58","8","9","128","128"]},"The media access protocol may be controlled by a MAC microprocessor (\u201cMAC \u03bcP\u201d)  which receives a timing control signal from a crystal oscillator (\u201cXTAL\u201d) . The MAC microprocessor  may communicate with the electronic device in which the radio of the present invention is to be utilized via a host communications bus (\u201cHOST\u201d). The MAC microprocessor  may further have input and output signals  from an analog-to-digital converter (\u201cA\/D\u201d), digital-to-analog converter (\u201cD\/A\u201d), an electrically erasable read only memory (EROM\u201d) or a reset control circuit (\u201cRESET\u201d) for example. The MAC microprocessor  may utilize random access memory (\u201cRAM\u201d)  which may be either volatile or nonvolatile memory. The MAC microprocessor  may also receive an input from OTP . A control bus (\u201cCONTROL\u201d) is utilized to control the circuitry of the radio card  of ,  and .","The MAC microprocessor  may have registers to read the status of and control the functions of the radio interface card . Registers may also be provided to control the transmission power state of the radio of the present invention. The MAC microprocessor  may provide a parallel-to serial converter for control and programming of the synthesizer  of . Additionally, the MAC microprocessor  may provide a programmable periodic timer, clock control of the CPU of the data terminal  and PCMCIA programmable clock generation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0199","num":"0201"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 10","FIG. 7","FIG. 8","FIGS. 7 and 8","FIG. 10","FIGS. 7 and 8","FIGS. 7 and 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["132","30","20","132","58","254","134","58","128","60","58","256","64","20","258"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0200","num":"0202"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 10","FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 10","FIG. 9","FIG. 2B","FIG. 9"],"b":["132","42","132","58","260","134","58","262","128","102"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0201","num":"0203"},"figref":"FIG. 21","b":["1450","1454","1451","1452","1453","1452","1454","1455","1455"]},"A dock  and a portable data terminal  according to the present invention may be connected to the wired backbone , and may serve a function similar to an access point . The dock  may provide power to the terminal , or alternatively the dock may be absent and the terminal  may run for a limited time under the power of its battery. The terminal  connects directly to the wired backbone , and also communicates with another terminal  through a wireless link . The terminal  may, for example, be equipped with protocol converter circuitry to convert communication on the wire backbone  into wireless communication on the link , and also to convert wireless communication on the link  to a format for communication on the wire backbone . The communication module associated with terminal  thus improves the versatility of the terminal .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0203","num":"0205"},"figref":["FIG. 22A","FIG. 22A"],"b":["1500","1502","1504","1502","1506","1508","1510","1504","1512","1514","1516","1502","1504","1500","1502","1510","1502","1504","1504"]},"In operation, the processing and interface circuitry  of the communication module  is programmed with the network configuration to route communication through either the wired transceiver  or the wireless transceiver . An incoming message on the wired transceiver  may be routed and processed to a terminal display portion, or may be routed to a host computer, a dock, or another portable data terminal  through the wired transceiver  or through the wireless transceiver , whichever is appropriate. Similarly, an incoming message on the wireless transceiver  may be routed to display or through the wireless transceiver  or through the wired transceiver , whichever is appropriate for the destination. By provided for the routing functions to be done in the communication module , the power used in the base module  can be minimized. Specifically, the interface with the control processor  and the application processor  need not be used, which allows the main terminal in the base module  to remain dormant while communications are routed in the communication module .","The choice of which transceiver to use in routing communication is based on a \u201cleast cost\u201d analysis, considering factors such as the power required to send the message through a particular transceiver, the speed at which the message will be received from a particular transceiver, the possibility of error associated with each transceiver, etc. A wired connection is usually selected when available, but routing decisions may vary with the different characteristics of each message and the mobility of the terminal. The processing and interface circuitry  in the communication module  is preferably capable of performing the least cost routing analysis for all communication messages, without activating any processing power from the base module .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0206","num":"0208"},"figref":["FIG. 22B","FIG. 22A"],"b":["1520","1522","1526","1528","1530","1530","1522"]},"Via the interface circuitry , the portable terminal  accepts PCMCIA cards. As illustrated, the PCMCIA card inserted constitutes a communication module  which provides both wired and wireless access. Specifically, the communication module  comprises processing circuitry , a multi-mode wireless transceiver  (such as set forth previously), a wired modem transceiver  and interface circuitry . When in use, the wired modem transceiver  interfaces via a jack  to a telephone line (not shown). Similarly, the wireless multi-mode transceiver  communicates via an antenna .","Whether the modem transceiver  or multi-mode transceiver  is being used, the processing circuitry  always delivers and receives data and messages via the interface circuitry  in the same manner and format, i.e., the interface circuitry  supports a common communication interface and protocol. The processing circuitry  of the communication module  receives data and messages via the interface circuitry . If the modem transceiver  is being used, the processing circuitry  appropriately (de)segments and (de)compresses the data\/messages utilizing a digital signal processor (DSP) . Otherwise, the processing circuitry , including the DSP , participate to assist in wireless communication via the multi-mode transceiver . Thus, the module  not only saves on PCMCIA slots (as required when a conventional radio card and a conventional modem card are both being used), but also saves costs and increases reliability by sharing common circuitry resources. In particular, the modem and multi-mode transceivers  and  share the interface circuitry  and processing circuitry  which includes the DSP .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0209","num":"0211"},"figref":"FIG. 23","b":["1515","1554","1552","1552","1554","1552","1554","1556"]},"The network involving the server , the communication link , and the MCDs  represents a primary communication network, that is preferable to use when there are no interference or disconnection problems in the network. The network between MCDs  involving wireless links  represents an auxiliary or backup network, which is used where there are problems with the primary network, or to run diagnostics on the primary network. The MCDs  are equipped to automatically switch from the primary network to the auxiliary network when a problem arises on the primary network. This network redundancy allows the MCDs  to remain in constant communication with each other and with server .","For example, a wired network on a communication link  does not recognize connection well, and may not immediately detect a loss of connectivity. MCDs  utilize wireless links  to diagnose a lack of connection on the wired network . For example, an MCD  may activate its radio to send a test message to another component of the network, either another MCD  or the server , to test communication on the wired link  by sending a reply test message back to the inquiring MCD . The test routine is preferably implemented and controlled by the processing\/interface circuitry  in the communication module  (see ) of the MCD . If the reply communication test is not received, the MCD  will know that there is a problem on the primary network, and will inform other MCDs  to switch to the auxiliary network. The MCDs  can continue to check the primary network via wireless links  until the primary network is back in service.","Some MCDs  may be out of range to effect wireless communication with server  by a wireless link . An out-of-range condition is determined according to the particular communication and connection protocol implemented by MCDs  and other network components such as server . In this situation, the out-of-range MCD  sends its message, along with an out-of-range condition indicator, to another MCD  that is in communication with the server , and the in-range MCD  forwards the message on to the server. Similarly, the server  sends its messages intended for the out-of-range MCD  to an in-range MCD  to be forwarded over a wireless link . The MCDs  are capable of automatically switching from the wired network to the wireless network and vice versa for each communication attempt.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0213","num":"0215"},"figref":"FIG. 24","b":["1600","1606","1604","1606","1602","1602","1608","1608","1608","1600","1604","1608","1606","1606","1606","1606"]},"Some MCDs  may be out of range to effect wireless communication with wireless server  by a wireless link . An out-of-range condition is determined according to the particular communication and connection protocol implemented by MCDs  and other network components such as wireless server . In this situation, the out-of-range MCD  sends its message, along with an out-of-range condition indicator, to another MCD  that is in communication with the wireless server , either over a wireless link  or alternatively over a wired link  if both MCDs  are constituents of a wired network. The in-range MCD  then forwards the message on to the wireless server  over wireless link . Similarly, the wireless server  sends its messages intended for the out-of-range MCD  to an in-range MCD  to be forwarded over a wireless link  or a wired link , if both MCDs are constituents of a wired network.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0215","num":"0217"},"figref":"FIG. 25","i":"a ","b":["1701","1703","1705"]},"The wireless access device  comprises control circuitry , a multimode transceiver , an Ethernet transceiver  and an antenna . The Ethernet transceiver  supports communication between the backbone LAN  and the control circuitry . Similarly, the multimode transceiver  supports communication into a wireless network cell to wireless devices within range such as the wireless terminal  via the antenna . The multimode transceiver  is more fully described below in reference, for example, to .","A wireless terminal  also comprises a multimode transceiver, a multimode transceiver , as well as an associated antenna  and conventional terminal circuitry . Using the multimode transceiver  and associated antenna , the wireless terminal  communicates with the wireless access device  when it is within transmission\/reception range.","The wireless access device  selects (and may periodically reselect) one of a plurality of communication modes and associated parameters of operation based on a variety of factors mentioned previously such as recent success rate, RSSI, neighboring cell operation, etc. However, when the wireless terminal  roams within range of the wireless access device , the roaming terminal must identify the currently selected mode and associated parameters being used by the wireless access device  to maintain the cell's communication. Although the wireless terminal  could be configured to scan each available mode to identify the currently selected mode and parameters, such efforts often prove time consuming.","Instead, the wireless terminal  and wireless access device  are preconfigured with mode and parameter information that defines a default, busy\/control channel. Thus, upon roaming into range of the wireless access device , the wireless terminal  first switches to the busy\/control channel by operating the multimode transceiver  according to the preconfigured mode and parameters, and then begins listening. Within a predefined maximum time period thereafter, the wireless terminal  will receive transmissions from the wireless access device  identifying the currently selected communication channel mode and associated parameters. The wireless access device  periodically broadcasts such information on the busy\/control channel to capture terminal that happens to need communication channel definitions (e.g., selected mode and parameters) to participate. The wireless terminal  utilizes identified mode and associated parameter information to switch the multimode transceiver  over to the selected communication channel and begins participation thereon.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0220","num":"0222"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 25"],"i":["b ","a "],"b":["1751","1753","1755","1751","1753","1755","1751","1753","1755","1755"]},"To fully appreciate this process, first assume that the wireless terminals  and  are not within range of the wireless access device . Upon wandering within range of the wireless access device , the wireless terminal  utilizing the predefined mode and parameters begins listening for transmissions on a busy\/control channel. Within some time period thereafter, the wireless access device  participates on the busy\/control channel to transmit: 1) the currently selected communication channel definition (i.e., mode and parameters); 2) pending message and communication request indicators; and 3) current channel conditions. After identifying a need to participate, the wireless terminal  awaits a transmission from wireless access device  (on the busy\/control channel) that the selected communication channel is clear (not in use). When the channel is clear, the wireless terminal  adopts the selected communication channel definition and begins participating thereon.","Second, assume that, while the wireless terminal  is engaged in ongoing communication with a computing device  on a backbone LAN  via the wireless access device , the wireless terminal  comes within range of the wireless access device  and desires to participate on the currently selected communication channel. The wireless terminal  adapts itself to participates on the busy\/control channel and identifies, in periodic transmissions from the wireless access device , that the communication channel is busy. Thus, the wireless terminal  must monitor the busy\/control channel to identify when the communication channel is clear before adapting to the communication channel to participate.","This operation works whether or not the terminals  and  are within range of each other. In particular, the terminal , terminal  and access device  have transmission ranges illustrated by dashed circles ,  and , respectively. Although both terminals  and  are within range of the access device , neither are in range of each other and, thus, are referred to as \u201chidden\u201d from each other. The access device  is within range of both of the terminals  and . If the wireless terminal  attempted to transmit on the communication channel while the terminal  was transmitting, a collision would occur at the wireless access device . However, this is not the case because both of the terminals  and  must receive a communication channel clear indication on the busy\/control channel from the wireless access device  that is in range of both, avoiding the hidden terminal problem. When participation is completed on the communication channel, the terminals  and  readopt the busy\/control channel definition (i.e., mode and associated parameters).","Participation by the wireless access device  on the busy\/control channel need only be by transmitting, although receiving might also be employed in case the busy\/control channel is to be shared. Similarly, participation by the wireless terminals  and  need only be by receiving transmissions, although transmitting might also be employed. In particular, transmission might be employed by a wireless terminal on the busy\/control channel if the wireless terminal does not support the currently selected communication channel, i.e., does not support the mode and associated parameters.","In addition, should the two terminals  and  be within range of each other and desire to intercommunicate, the wireless access device  will allocate an unused, non-competing mode in which the two terminals can exchange information or data. In particular, one of the wireless terminals  and  first attempts to establish an exchange by gaining access to the communication channel (via busy\/control channel monitoring). Once access has been established, the wireless terminal, e.g., the terminal  delivers a request for poll message (RFP) to the wireless access device  which identifies the amount of data or information to be exchanged if known, the recipient or target (e.g., the terminal ), and characteristics of the data or information such as whether real time dedicated bandwidth is not needed, desired or required. If the amount of data or information to be exchanged is minimal and requires no dedicated bandwidth, the wireless access device  will not bother attempting to dedicate a mode to the transceivers  and . Instead, the wireless access device  will merely relay the information or data received from the terminal  to the terminal  and vice versa. Otherwise, the wireless access device  will examine its lookup table to see if the terminal  currently participates within the network cell (i.e., within range) of the wireless access device . If the terminal  doesn't participate, the wireless access device  will inform the terminal  and only proceed with relaying functionality (or spanning tree wireless routing, for example) per confirmation by the terminal . However, if the terminal  does participate, the wireless access device  concludes that there is a good chance that the terminals  and  are within range of each other. Thus, the wireless access device  attempts to identify an available and appropriate mode and associated parameters that may be temporarily assigned to the terminals  and  for their communication exchange. The wireless access device  attempts to communicate such channel information to both of the terminals  and . Thereafter, as soon as either of the terminals  and  receive the information, the terminal will immediately set their multimode radio to the dedicated mode and parameters, listen for polling messages from the other terminal, and, if no poll messages are detected, begin transmitting polling messages to the other terminal. If a polling message is received, the communication exchange, such as dedicated voice bandwidth, will take place. Afterwards, the terminals  and  inform the wireless access device  that the allocated channel is no longer needed and may be reallocated. Similarly, if a terminal polls for the other for a predefined period of time on the allocated channel without receiving any response, that terminal will inform the wireless access device  of the failure, and the wireless access device will free the allocated mode for reallocation or communication channel use.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0226","num":"0228"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 25"],"i":["c ","b "],"b":["1781","1782","1783","1784","1785","1786","1781"]},"If, while participating on the selected communication channel at the block , a request for poll (RFP) transmission is received from a wireless terminal as indicated at an event block , the wireless access device responds by switching to the busy\/control channel at a block  to deliver communication channel definition, channel \u201cbusy\u201d indications and any pending message\/communication request indications at a block . Although the busy indication may only indicate that the selected communication channel is not available, it also indicates an estimated amount of time during which the channel will be busy. The wireless access device derives this estimate from the overall data size to be transferred as determined from the data itself or from a field in the RFP transmission, if known. This way, a waiting wireless transceiver may go to sleep while an ongoing exchange is taking place and wake up when the exchange is scheduled to have finished.","Thereafter, at a block , the wireless access device switches back to the selected communication channel mode and parameters, resets the B\/C service time period (at a block ), transmits a Poll or Data message (whichever is appropriate under the circumstances) on the communication channel at a block , and returns to the block  to await a Data or Ack (acknowledge) message from a participating wireless transceiver. In particular, in response to an RFP from a participating wireless device that has Data to deliver via the wireless access device, the wireless access device delivers a Poll message at the block  to the participant, prompting for the Data. Otherwise, if the RFP indicates a desire by the participating wireless terminal to receive Data, the wireless access device sends the Data at the block . The Data sent at the block  may be of any length including dedicated bandwidth for an unknown duration. Thus, if a wireless terminal listens for a period of time greater than the B\/C service time period and detects no transmission from the access device on the busy\/control channel, the wireless terminal concludes that the selected communication channel is busy.","Alternately, data may be segmented into Data packets for transmission one packet at a time via the blocks  and -. In this way, a listening wireless terminal will can be sure that it will receive a communication channel broadcast via the blocks - between each Data packet transmission. Upon receipt, wireless terminals may place their transceivers in a sleep mode until each of the Data packets of the data have been exchanged, and the communication channel is clear.","Upon receiving the data (or Data packet) or an acknowledge (ACK) message indicating successful receipt of data (or a Data packet) as indicated at an event block , the wireless access device broadcasts a Poll, Ack or Clear message or sends data (or packets thereof) as proves appropriate at a block . The access device then switches to the busy\/channel at a block  to transmit the currently selected communication channel definition, busy or clear indications and pending messages\/requests at a block . Afterwards, the wireless access device switches back to the communication channel at a block , resets the B\/C service time period at a block  and returns to the block  to continue communication exchanges or enter an idle state if the exchange is complete.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0231","num":"0233"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25","FIGS. 25"],"i":["a ","a ","a","c"],"b":["1801","1803","1805"]},"In particular, a wireless access device  comprises control circuitry , an Ethernet transceiver , a busy\/control transmitter  and corresponding antenna , and a multimode transceiver  and corresponding antenna . Having separate radio units and antennas, the wireless access device  participates on: 1) a selected communication channel defined by mode and parameter information, servicing data exchanges in the communication network cell; and 2) the busy\/control channel defined by predetermined mode and parameter information known to all wireless transmitters, controlling access to the selected communication channel. Such participation is often simultaneous, preventing a wireless terminal from having to wait long on the busy\/control channel for a transmission.","In one configuration, where hidden terminals prove to be of little concern, the wireless terminals  and  are only forced to wait on the busy\/control channel until they receive the selected communication channel definition. In another configuration, as better exemplified in which follows, all wireless terminals participate on the busy\/control channel except when they have a need and gain access to the selected communication channel. In this latter configuration, when the wireless access device  is participating on the selected communication channel with the wireless terminal , for example, the wireless access device  concurrently delivers communication channel definition, busy\/clear status and message\/request indications on the busy\/control channel. Such information can be repeatedly transmitted at any time interval desired or may be transmitted continuously.","Similarly, although a wireless transceiver may operate with a single multimode radio as described previously, it may also take advantage of multiple radios. Specifically, the wireless transceiver  comprises terminal circuitry  and only one radio, a multimode transceiver . Thus, the wireless transceiver  is forced to time share participation on the busy\/control channel and the selected communication channel\u2014often all that is needed. However, the wireless terminal  comprises terminal circuitry  and two radios, a busy\/control channel receiver  and a multimode transceiver . As such, the wireless terminal  may place the multimode transceiver  in a low power state, and only powering up its busy\/control channel receiver  to check in. Characteristics of the busy\/control channel may be chosen to permit significant overall power savings and simplicity in the design of the receiver .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0235","num":"0237"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 26","FIG. 25"],"i":["b ","a ","b"],"b":["1911","1913","1915","1919","1917","1921","1915","1919","1911","1915","1919"]},"Unlike the wireless access device  (of ), the wireless access device  participates on both a busy\/control channel and a selected communication channel simultaneously. The wireless access device  delivers all communication channel information either continuously or periodically on the busy\/control channel, while idle or servicing any wireless terminal on the communication channel. By doing so, the wireless access device  is free to set any length data segments or none at all on a selected communication channel, while delivering communication channel information as often as desired on the busy\/control channel. Thus, the busy\/control channel and communication channel can be designed for optimized performance without having to consider time sharing of a single channel or time sharing a transceiver.","Thus, the busy\/control channel can be designed to minimize the listening time of the wireless terminals  and  to gain status information. Sleep periods of the wireless (and often hand-held and portable) terminals  and  increased saving critical battery power. Similarly, data segmentation can be set based solely on the conditions of the selected communication channel, and not merely to guarantee the wireless access device  a maximum interleaving time period during which the wireless access device  will participate on the busy\/control channel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0238","num":"0240"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 26"],"i":["c ","b "],"b":["1951","1953","1955","1957","1951"]},"Although the B\/C time interval may prove sufficient to communicate updates to the selected communication channel information, the wireless access device is also configured to immediately identify any mode or parameter changes of the selected communication channel. In particular, at a block , if for any of a variety of reasons the wireless access device decides to switch the mode and\/or parameters of the communication channel, the wireless access device vectors to immediately deliver such information on the busy\/control channel via the blocks  and . Similarly, the wireless access device may also be configured (as indicated by the dashed lines) to respond to immediately report status changes such as whether a message or a request for dedicated bandwidth has been received as indicated at a block  and the blocks  and . Other immediate event servicing may also be added and similarly serviced.","Unlike the single radio (shared) embodiments previously mentioned, the wireless access device services the block  and  no matter what the wireless access device is currently engaged in on the selected communication channel.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0241","num":"0243"},"figref":"FIG. 27","b":["2013","2011","2011","2021","2023","2025","2025","2027"]},"With the single, configurable transceiver , the wireless access device may operate identically to that described in reference to . However, the configurable transceiver  may not provide multimode operation, but only support multiple channels operating in a single mode. For example, the transceiver  may only support the mode of channelized direct sequence. Although only a single mode is available, the parameters such as (and defining) spreading codes, spreading code lengths, channel center frequency and channel bandwidth, for example, alone, and without mode change, provide the wireless access device  with the ability to support a dedicated busy\/control channel and provide a plurality of other channels for maintaining the communication channel.","Alternatively, the wireless access device  may also comprise a dedicated busy\/control transmitter . If it does, the wireless access device  with a multimode transceiver  would operate as detailed in reference to . If configured with a single mode transceiver  supporting only one channel, the wireless access device  would still maintain the communication and busy\/control channels buy need only identify parameter and pending messages and communication requests on the busy\/control channel. Of course the busy\/control channel would still solve the hidden terminal problems and provide the associated benefits described above. Finally, with the transmitter  supporting the busy\/control channel, the transceiver  might support multiple communication channels without supporting multiple modes of operation. In such configurations, the wireless access device  need not report mode change information on the busy\/control channel. Reporting all other information and aforementioned control would still take place.","The wireless transmitter  could accommodate the same wireless configuration as described in reference to the wireless access device . Along with conventional terminal circuitry , it may have a multimode or non-multimode, configurable or non-configurable transceiver . The transceiver  might operate independently or utilize a supporting busy\/control receiver . Lastly, although not necessary, the transmitter  and receiver  might each constitute transceivers.\n\n"],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 1A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 1D","FIG. 1C"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIGS. 4A","FIG. 3"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 11"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 14A","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":["FIG. 14B","FIG. 14A","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"figref":["FIG. 16","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 18","FIG. 10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 19","FIG. 10","FIG. 7","FIG. 8"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 20","FIG. 10","FIG. 9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0069","num":"0068"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":"FIG. 22A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 22B","FIG. 22A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0072","num":"0071"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 25","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIG. 25"],"i":["b ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 25","FIGS. 25"],"i":["c ","a","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 25"],"i":["a ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0078","num":"0077"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIG. 26"],"i":["b ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"figref":["FIG. 26","FIGS. 26"],"i":["c ","a","b "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":"FIG. 27"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
