---
title: Hosted notifications templates
abstract: Method and systems for generating notifications in a notifications system. A parameter-driven template received from a content provider contains one or more parameters related to a subscription for notifications. The notifications system enables an application based on the received template and executes it to map a recurring event to one or more subscribers as a function of the parameters specified by the content provider. In response to the recurring event, the notification system generates a notification. Other aspects of the invention relate to a computer-readable medium that defines the application for use in a notifications system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07877694&OS=07877694&RS=07877694
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07877694
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031205
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION","Appendix A","Appendix B"],"p":["Embodiments of the present invention relate to the field of software notifications. In particular, embodiments of this invention relate to implementing a template-based notification application use in generating notifications.","Up-to-date information in a wide variety of areas is very important to many people. These people often desire to be alerted to time-sensitive events and information. Content providers generate content for notifications, which are then delivered to one or more user electronically (e.g., via electronic mail). For example, a news organization may provide notification content relating stock prices, breaking news, weather conditions, traffic conditions, etc. A user's expressed interest to receive electronic notifications for a particular class of content is generally called a notification subscription. Such subscriptions often are made between the end user and the content provider that sends the notifications. Event-driven notifications of this type are often referred to as alerts.","An alerts application typically consists of an event feed component, multiple subscription offerings, mapping of events to notifications for subscription offerings, a signup user interface, and final notification formatting to be delivered to subscribers. Disadvantageously, conventional alerts technology places a heavy burden on either the content providers or the alerts notification service for managing and generating notifications. A hosted alerts system is desired to quickly develop and host alerts applications based on content feeds from interested content providers. In such a system, however, content providers are required to develop a custom alerts application each time aspects of the application changes. This results in additional and undesirable development and deployment time. For example, the ability for a retailer to quickly and easily deploy a notification involving a new special offer involving certain goods to a particular set of subscribers in a matter of hours rather than weeks could provide a significant competitive advantage.","Accordingly, faster development and deployment of notifications is desired to address one or more of these and other disadvantages.","Embodiments of the invention overcome one or more deficiencies in the prior art by providing template-based notification applications for use in a hosted alerts environment. In one embodiment, the invention enables a template containing necessary information relating to an alerts subscription. By enabling the required logic based on the template, an exemplary notifications system can execute multiple applications without burdensome additional code development, testing, and deployment overhead. Moreover, the features of the present invention described herein are less laborious and easier to implement than currently available techniques as well as being economically feasible and commercially practical.","Briefly described, a method embodying aspects of the invention generates notifications in a notifications system. The notifications, which are sent to subscribers via a data communication network, contain content provided by one or more content providers. The method includes receiving a parameter-driven template from a content provider. The template contains one or more parameters related to a subscription for notifications specified by the content provider. The method also includes enabling a notifications application based on the received template and executing the notifications application. In this instance, the notifications application maps a recurring event to one or more subscribers as a function of the parameters specified by the content provider and a notification is generated and delivered to the subscribers in response to the recurring event.","In another embodiment, a computer-readable medium has a data structure stored thereon that defines an application for use in a notifications system. The notifications system is configured to execute the defined application for providing notifications to subscribers via a data communication network. The notifications contain content provided by one or more content providers. The data structure includes a scenario template configured to contain information for defining the application. In this embodiment, the scenario template has one or more parameters specified by the content provider and relating to a subscription for notifications. The data structure also includes a notification generation component responsive to an event feed for mapping a recurring event to one or more subscribers as a function of the parameters specified by the content provider and generating a notification for it. A delivery component then routes the notification to the subscribers.","Yet another embodiment relates to a system configured for generating and delivering notifications to subscribers via a data communication network. The system includes a computing device coupled to a data communication network and configured to receive a parameter-driven template from a content provider via the data communication network. The template contains information provided by the content provider and relating to a subscription for notifications. The system also includes a computer-readable medium that stores computer-executable instructions to be executed on the computing device to implement a notifications application based on the template. The notifications application maps a recurring event to one or more subscribers as a function of one or more parameters specified by the content provider and delivers the notification to the subscribers in response to the recurring event.","A notification system embodying aspects of the invention generates and delivers notifications to subscribers. The system includes a computing device coupled to a data communication network and configured to receive a parameter-driven template from a content provider via the data communication network. The template contains information provided by the content provider and relating to a subscription for notifications. The system also includes a subscription store associated with the computing device. The subscription store is configured to store one or more notification offerings described by an application definition file. The system also includes a computer-readable medium that stores computer-executable instructions to be executed on the computing device to implement a notifications application according to the application definition file. The notifications application delivers the notification to the subscribers in response to a recurring event.","Computer-readable media having computer-executable instructions for performing methods of notifications management embody further aspects of the invention.","Alternatively, the invention may comprise various other methods and apparatuses.","Other features will be in part apparent and in part pointed out hereinafter.","Referring first to , an exemplary block diagram illustrates one example of a suitable alerts service environment in which the invention may be implemented.  illustrates the communication flow between a content provider 102 such as content provider # through content provider #N, an alerts service , and a user device  such as user device # through user device #M. The content provider , the alerts service , and the user device  are coupled to a data communication network such as described with reference to . The content provider  sends a notification to the alerts service  for delivery to one or more of the user devices . Alerts service  accesses a subscription database  storing subscription information and user routing preferences  to determine which user device(s)  should receive the alert. Alerts service  then delivers the alert to the determined user device . In one example, the alerts service environment is referred to as a notification pipeline and database (NPD).","The alerts service  illustrated in  transcends any one particular transport medium for delivery of notifications. The invention may use any of a plurality of transport mediums such as electronic mail, instant messaging, mobile short-message-service messaging, wireless communications, etc.","Aspects of the present invention provide a hosted notification mechanism for greater versatility and usability. In general, a notifications system (i.e., alerts service ) operating in accordance with embodiments of the invention sends a message, often referred to as a notification or alert, to a subscribing user via his or her specified user device . The message contains event-driven information from content provider  relevant to a topic of interest to which the user has signed up. In other words, a subscriber is a user or other entity that expresses an interest in a topic and receives notifications related to the topic from content provider . In one embodiment, the combination of a subscriber and a topic constitutes a subscription. Exemplary topics for alerts include news, weather, sports, finance, traffic, hobbies, bargains, and so forth. As described above, the notifications are usually driven by events such as breaking news, changes in weather or traffic conditions, auction outbid notices, etc.","In a de-centralized system, alert content providers  manage subscriber accounts, subscriptions, delivery of alerts, and the like. A hosted alerts system according to embodiments of the invention centralizes managing subscriber accounts and subscriptions so that content providers  can focus on providing content rather than operating an alerts management system. For example, content providers  send alert content to hosted alerts system  in a protocol such as Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP). The hosted alerts system  determines which subscribers should receive the alert and then sends the alert to the appropriate subscribers. A set of protocols for notification-based applications based on SOAP, for example, provides the basis for a programming model for managing notification-based applications and serves as building blocks for a platform for such applications.","Notification-based applications may also be referred to as publisher\/subscriber applications. In this instance, subscribers create subscriptions for the topics of interest to them. When an event occurs, a notification-based application matches the topic corresponding to the event with the subscriptions. The notification system then sends the appropriate notification to each subscriber for all of the matches. In general, a notifications application has components for the following: subscription store (and corresponding application programming interfaces (APIs)); external \u201cevent\u201d feed (and corresponding APIs); notification generation by matching external events with the corresponding stored subscriptions; and delivery\/routing of notifications; subscription management application.","Referring further to , alerts service  processes notification or alert information received via the data communication network from content provider . An interface component  receives a data packet representing the notification and alerts service  stores it in a memory area. In one example, the memory area includes a plurality of databases (not shown). The notification includes routing information and content. One or more computing devices associated with the alerts service  enable delivery of the stored notification to one or more subscribing users based on the routing information.","The user device  may be a computer such as computer  described with reference to . Further, user device  may execute an alerts application (e.g., an instant messaging application) that receives and processes alerts in a web-based notifications system. The alerts application executes on user device , which may also. be, for example, a cellular telephone (e.g., a Smartphone device), a pager, or a handheld computing device (e.g., a personal digital assistant or a Pocket PC device). Moreover, user device  may include any of the above exemplary devices enabled with an information service such as a SMART PERSONAL OBJECTS TECHNOLOGY (SPOT) brand of telecommunication service and\/or devices. The information service comprises a computing infrastructure (e.g., a telecommunication service) for sending data and information to personal and home devices via computer networks, wireless networks and the Internet. User devices  that may be enabled with the information service include, but are not limited to, the following devices: clocks, alarm clocks, radios incorporating clocks, watches, billfolds, wallets, checkbook and passbook wallets, purses, pens, metal key rings, key holders, wireless devices, computer hardware (e.g., peripherals, monitors, and displays), electronic calendar devices, and refrigerator magnets. Further, magazines, books, and user manuals relating to computers, computer programs, personal information devices and wireless communications may also incorporate the information service. The information service enables billions of devices to communicate with each other. For example, customers select the type of information and services they want to receive on the enabled devices via a configuration web page. This content is subsequently beamed to and displayed on the device. Information available to users on devices using the information service includes personal messages, calendar updates, and customized news, weather, financial and sports information.","In one embodiment, the system shown in  is implemented as a web service and functionality associated with alerts service  may be distributed among one or more computers. For example, alerts service  may include a distributed processing system. When content provider  posts an alert such as in the form of an extensible markup language (XML) document, alerts service  parses the alert and validates the packet. Alerts service  may also asynchronously process the alert by queuing it into an NPD queue or other memory area. The NPD queue represents an internal queue of work items that are acted upon by any one of the multiple threads in the thread pool, but only one thread processes the item at any given time. The alerts service  then retrieves information regarding, for example, a specific broadcast list specified in the alert, such as the number of members or users, and an internal 32-bit row identifier from a database such as a broadcast list database (BLDB) (not shown). A web services component (e.g., an ASP.NET web service), for example, embodying a subscription management web service manipulates a user profile database (UPDB) or user profile store (UPS) (not shown) to obtain information regarding the subscribing user based on the notification information received from content provider .","Referring now to , a computer-readable medium storing a data structure embodies application definition file . The application definition file  defines an application for use in a notifications system, such as alerts system . In particular, alerts system  in this embodiment is configured to execute the defined application for providing notifications to subscribers via a data communication network. Application definition file  includes a scenario template  configured to contain information for defining the application. The scenario template  of  has one or more parameters specified by content provider  and relating to a subscription for notifications. A notification generation component  responsive to an event feed maps a recurring event to one or more subscribers as a function of the parameters specified by content provider , which in turn yields a notification. Application definition file  also includes a delivery component  for routing the notification to the subscribers.","As shown in , scenario template  of application definition file  includes a category component  for defining a category of events for which the notifications are to be generated and a scheduling component  for defining when the notifications are to be delivered. For example, one of the parameters specified by content provider  may relate to delivery of the notifications at a predetermined time of day and another one of the parameters specified by content provider  may relate to delivery of the notifications upon occurrence of the recurring event.","Thus, applications may be completely defined through metadata described in application definition file . Additional code need not be written once the basic code is written to handle applications and the corresponding scenario templates . This is a key to delivering many alerting applications quickly without custom coding, testing, and deployment.","Although scenario template  is described in the context of category component  in the embodiment of , alternative embodiments of the present invention may be used to enable applications other than category-based applications. For example, in a threshold-based application, category component  may be replaced by a stock component for enabling determination of when a stock hits a certain price, i.e., a threshold. In a further embodiment, a user interface template  is configured to contain information for defining a user interface corresponding to the application for managing the subscription.","Further aspects of application definition file  are described in greater detail below.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["104","102","302","104","102","204","214","304","102","104","102","306","104","202"]},"Enabling the application includes defining, with the template, a category of events for which the notifications are to be generated and when the notifications are to be delivered. For example, alerts service  matches a most recent instance of the recurring event to the subscription to generate the notifications for delivery at a user-defined, scheduled predetermined time of day. In another example, alerts service  matches the recurring event to the subscription to generate the notifications for broadcast delivery upon occurrence of the recurring event. The notifications application in this instance maps a recurring event to one or more subscribers as a function of the parameters specified by content provider .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":"308"},"A hosted alerts system embodying aspects of the invention, such as alerts service , quickly develops and hosts notifications applications based on content feeds from content providers . Hosted alerts in this instance take on the burden of managing user's content subscriptions and generating alerts, which permits content providers  to focus on aggregating, editorializing, transforming, and publishing rich content. According to embodiments of the invention, the use of scenario templates  minimizes the development and deployment time of event-driven notifications.","Alerts or notifications applications generally include components relating to event feeds, multiple subscription offerings, event to notification mapping for subscription offerings, signup user interfaces, and final notification formatting to be delivered to subscribers. Scenario template  advantageously contains necessary information relating to an individual subscription such that hosted alerts applications can choose between multiple scenario templates supported. Alerts service  implements the required logic based on scenario template  and multiple applications can utilize them without further code development and testing and without significant increases in deployment overhead.","Embodiments of the present invention employ an application that includes reusable, predefined scenario templates  among other things. Scenario templates  are building blocks that can be specialized through parameters to represent a single alert offering. The full description of the application is found in the application definition file . Given a set of application definition files , alerts service  provides a full set of components for the alerting applications that described by the application definition files. Specifically, for each application definition file , a subscription store stores the user's notification subscriptions described by the scenarios defined with the application and a provisioning script provisions the applications in the alerts system.","In addition, middle tier subscription APIs may be driven off of application definition file  to validate incoming subscription management requests and to commit them to the subscription store. Similarly, middle tier eventing APIs may be driven off of application definition file  to validate incoming event management requests and to commit them to the event store. Jobs\/processes are configured in one embodiment of the invention to generate notifications based on the matching external events with the corresponding subscriptions and to deliver the notifications to the core alerts service  delivery\/routing mechanism.","In yet another embodiment of the invention, a web site may be driven off of application definition file  to provide a user interface with which end users could interact to create, update, and delete subscriptions.","Referring now to specific examples embodying aspects of the invention, many alerting offerings share the same basic schema such that they can be defined in terms of predefined scenario templates . For example, a Category-Based Scheduled scenario template provides subscriptions to be defined in terms of subscribing to a specific category (or channel) of notifications to be delivered at a predetermined time of day. In this instance, event feeds including the full \u201calert\u201d to be sent are expected to come in for each category or channel on a recurring basis. Notifications are generated based on matching the latest event of a given category with the subscriptions for the same category at the predefined schedule time.","In another example, a Category-Based Broadcast scenario template provides subscriptions to be defined in terms of subscribing to a specific category (or channel) of notifications to be delivered at a time that they occurred. Again, event feeds including the full \u201calert\u201d to be sent are expected to come in for each category on a recurring basis. Notifications are generated based on matching each event of a given category with the subscriptions for that category at the time the event is submitted to hosted alerts service .","The following are examples of alert offerings that may be provided using a scenario template model:","Horoscope: Users sign up for a given horoscope sign at a given time of day for a given set of days each week. This offering may be implemented using a category-based scheduled scenario template  where the category represents the horoscope sign.","Lottery: Users sign up for lottery results of a given state at a given time of day for a given set of days each week. This offering may be implemented using a category-based scheduled scenario template  where the category represents the state.","News: Users either sign up for summary news or headline news or both for a given topic of news (e.g. Top Stories, Sports, International, etc.) for a given time of day for a given set of days each week. This offering may be implemented using two instances of a category-based scheduled scenario template  where the category for each represents the topic of news. The first instance of the category-based scheduled scenario template represents summary news and the second instance represents headline news.","Although major components of a notifications application can be defined in terms of scenario templates  (e.g., subscription store, generation matching logic, etc.), user interface template  provides an additional level of abstraction for building a subscription management application. User interface templates  are templates that define a user interface to manage subscriptions for a given application.","In one embodiment of the invention, a single alerting system brings any number of alert offerings implemented via parameterized scenario templates . Accordingly, some flexibility to define how the various alert offerings are presented to the user for a given application is desired. For example, user interface template  applied independently of scenario templates  permit a user to sign up for multiple types of alert offerings that are similar (e.g., summary news and headline news that shared the same categories) at the same time.","Referring now to a specific example of user interface templates , a Category-Based Scheduled user interface template manages subscriptions for one or more Category-Based Scheduled scenario templates  that share the same category lists among all category-based schedule scenarios. For example, such a user interface template  shows the list of categories just once but still allows managing either type of subscriptions.","User interface templates  are parameterized to specify the names of the scenarios as well as the localized text to plug in throughout the user interface. The user interface, for example, includes web pages accessible over network such as the Internet. In this instance, a single set of ASP.NET-based web pages for each user interface template  with mechanisms to access the parameters of application definition files  may be programmatically customized according to the parameters given for the application.","According to embodiments of the invention, each application also includes additional information to provision the application in the delivery\/routing alert system (e.g., core alerts service ). The additional information contains the additional parameters used to \u201cprovision\u201d the application in the alerts system.","APPENDIX A describes an exemplary application definition file schema according to embodiments of the invention. For example, the schema of APPENDIX A constitutes a parameter-driven template. APPENDIX B provides an example of an application definition file according to the schema of APPENDIX A (i.e., an example of a template returned by content provider ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["70","70","104"]},"In the illustrated embodiments, computer  has one or more processors or processing units  and a system memory . In the illustrated embodiment, a system bus  couples various system components including the system memory  to the processors . The bus  represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures, including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, an accelerated graphics port, and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus also known as Mezzanine bus.","The computer  typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media, which include both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media, may be any available medium that may be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation, computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. For example, computer storage media include RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal, which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media, such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media, such as acoustic, RF, infrared, and other wireless media, are examples of communication media. Combinations of the any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of removable and\/or non-removable, volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment, system memory  includes read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . The RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. For example,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media.  also shows a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk  such as a CD-ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that may be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a non-volatile memory interface, such as interface .","The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in , provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies.","A user may enter commands and information into computer  through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard  and a pointing device  (e.g., a mouse, trackball, pen, or touch pad). Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to system bus , but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port, or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor , computers often include other peripheral output devices (not shown) such as a printer and speakers, which may be connected through an output peripheral interface (not shown).","The computer  may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. LAN  and\/or WAN  may be a wired network, a wireless network, a combination thereof, and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets, and global computer networks (e.g., the Internet).","When used in a local area networking environment, computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment, computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, is connected to system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in a remote memory storage device (not shown). By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on the memory device. The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","Generally, the data processors of computer  are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer-readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed, for example, on floppy disks or CD-ROMs. From there, they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution, they are loaded at least partially into the computer's primary electronic memory. The invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer-readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described herein in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. The invention also includes the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.","For purposes of illustration, programs and other executable program components, such as the operating system, are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized, however, that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer, and are executed by the data processor(s) of the computer.","Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment, including computer , the invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Moreover, the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, mobile telephones, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally, program modules include, but are not limited to, routines, programs, objects, components, and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","An interface in the context of software architecture includes a software module, component, code portion, or other sequence of computer-executable instructions. The interface includes, for example, a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include, in one example, application programming interfaces (APIs) such as provided by operating systems, component object model (COM) interfaces (e.g., for peer-to-peer application communication), and extensible markup language metadata interchange format (XMI) interfaces (e.g., for communication between web services).","The interface may be a tightly coupled, synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE), COM, or distributed COM (DCOM) examples. Alternatively or in addition, the interface may be a loosely coupled, asynchronous implementation such as in a web service (e.g., using the simple object access protocol). In general, the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics: tightly coupled, loosely coupled, synchronous, and asynchronous. Further, the interface may conform to a standard protocol, a proprietary protocol, or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.","The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further, the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.","In operation, computer  executes computer-executable instructions such as those described herein to receive a parameter-driven template, including scenario template , from content provider . Computer , in this exemplary embodiment, enables a notifications application based on the received template and executes the notifications application. In this instance, the notifications application maps a recurring event to one or more subscribers as a function of the parameters specified by content provider  and computer  generates a notification and delivers it to the subscribers in response to the recurring event.","The order of execution or performance of the methods illustrated and described herein is not essential, unless otherwise specified. That is, elements of the methods may be performed in any order, unless otherwise specified, and that the methods may include more or less elements than those disclosed herein.","Information in this document, including uniform resource locator and other Internet web site references, is subject to change without notice. Unless otherwise noted, the example companies, organizations, products, domain names, e-mail addresses, logos, people, places and events depicted herein are fictitious, and no association with any real company, organization, product, domain name, e-mail address, logo, person, place or event is intended or should be inferred.","When introducing elements of the present invention or the embodiment(s) thereof, the articles \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d \u201cthe,\u201d and \u201csaid\u201d are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d and \u201chaving\u201d are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.","In view of the above, it will be seen that the several objects of the invention are achieved and other advantageous results attained.","As various changes could be made in the above constructions, products, and methods without departing from the scope of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.","Application Definition File Schema","An exemplary XSD schema used to define an application according to embodiments of the invention follows.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cutf-8\u201d ?>"},{"entry":"<xs:schema"},{"entry":"targetNamespace=\u201chttp:\/\/alerts.microsoft.com\/hosted\/2003\/07\/application\u201d"},{"entry":"elementFormDefault=\u201cqualified\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003xmlns=\u201chttp:\/\/alerts.microsoft.com\/hosted\/2003\/07\/application\u201d"},{"entry":"xmlns:mstns=\u201chttp:\/\/alerts.microsoft.com\/hosted\/2003\/07\/application\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003xmlns:xs=\u201chttp:\/\/www.w3.org\/2001\/XMLSchema\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:simpleType name=\u201cCategory_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:restriction base=\u201cxs:string\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:maxLength value=\u201c16\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:restriction>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:simpleType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cCpInfo_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCpid\u201d type=\u201cxs:integer\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cPassword\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cUri\u201d type=\u201cxs:anyURI\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cReplyToEmail\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cDefaultMarket\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cCategories_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCategory\u201d type=\u201cCategory_t\u201d minOccurs=\u201c0\u201d"},{"entry":"maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cLocales_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cLocale\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d minOccurs=\u201c0\u201d"},{"entry":"maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cPageText_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cHomePage_Heading\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cHomePage_SubHead\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cHomePage_BulletTwo\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cViewPage_Heading\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cViewPage_SubHead\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cViewPage_CatHead\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cViewPage_SchedHead\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cEditPage_Heading\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cEditPage_SubHead\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cAddPage_Heading\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cAddPage_SubHead\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cAddPage_ChooseCat\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cAddPage_ChooseTime\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cCategoryBasedScheduleScenario_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCategories\u201d type=\u201cCategories_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cScenario_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cLocales\u201d type=\u201cLocales_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:choice>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCategoryBasedScheduleScenario\u201d"},{"entry":"type=\u201cCategoryBasedScheduleScenario_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/xs:choice>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:attribute name=\u201cname\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d use=\u201crequired\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:attribute name=\u201ctype\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d use=\u201crequired\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cSchema_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cScenario\u201d type=\u201cScenario_t\u201d minOccurs=\u201c0\u201d"},{"entry":"maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUICpInfo_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cName\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cSignupText\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cSignupImage\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cIcon\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUICategory_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCategory\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cDisplay\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUICategories_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCategory\u201d type=\u201cUICategory_t\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003minOccurs=\u201c0\u201d"},{"entry":"maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUIScenario_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cScenario\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cDisplay\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUIScenarios_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cScenario\u201d type=\u201cUIScenario_t\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003minOccurs=\u201c0\u201d"},{"entry":"maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUICategoryBasedSchedule_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cDisplayName\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cLogoGraphic\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cPageText\u201d type=\u201cPageText_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cScenarios\u201d type=\u201cUIScenarios_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCategories\u201d type=\u201cUICategories_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUISubscription_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:choice>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCategoryBasedSchedule\u201d"},{"entry":"type=\u201cUICategoryBasedSchedule_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:choice>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:attribute name=\u201ctype\u201d type=\u201cxs:string\u201d use=\u201crequired\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUserInterface_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCpInfo\u201d type=\u201cUICpInfo_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cSubscription\u201d type=\u201cUISubscription_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:attribute ref=\u201cxml:lang\u201d use=\u201crequired\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cUserInterfaces_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cUserInterface\u201d type=\u201cUserInterface_t\u201d"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003minOccurs=\u201c1\u201d"},{"entry":"maxOccurs=\u201cunbounded\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:complexType name=\u201cApplication_t\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cCpInfo\u201d type=\u201cCpInfo_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cSchema\u201d type=\u201cSchema_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cUserInterfaces\u201d type=\u201cUserInterfaces_t\u201d\/>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/xs:sequence>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/xs:complexType>"},{"entry":"\u2003<xs:element name=\u201cApplication\u201d type=\u201cApplication_t\u201d \/>"},{"entry":"<\/xs:schema>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}},"Sample Application Definition File","An exemplary Application Definition file used to deliver news is shown below. The Application Definition file follows the exemplary schema shown above in APPENDIX A.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0079","num":"0078"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"273pt","align":"left"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"<?xml version=\u201c1.0\u201d encoding=\u201cutf-8\u201d ?>"},{"entry":"<Application xmlns=\u201chttp:\/\/alerts.microsoft.com\/hosted\/2003\/07\/application\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003<CpInfo>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Cpid>716<\/Cpid>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Password>password<\/Password>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Uri>http:\/\/localhost<\/Uri>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<ReplyToEmail><\/ReplyToEmail>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<DefaultMarket>en-US<\/DefaultMarket>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/CpInfo>"},{"entry":"\u2003<Schema>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Scenario name=\u201cHeadlineNews\u201d type=\u201cCategoryBasedSchedule\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Locales>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Locale>en-US<\/Locale>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Locale>en-CA<\/Locale>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Locale>fr-CA<\/Locale>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Locales>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<CategoryBasedScheduleScenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Categories>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Top<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Nat<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Int<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Spo<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Pol<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Bus<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Ent<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>S&amp;H<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>C&amp;T<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Categories>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/CategoryBasedScheduleScenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/Scenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<Scenario name=\u201cSummaryNews\u201d type=\u201cCategoryBasedSchedule\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Locales>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Locale>en-US<\/Locale>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Locale>en-CA<\/Locale>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Locale>fr-CA<\/Locale>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Locales>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<CategoryBasedScheduleScenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Categories>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Top<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Nat<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Int<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Spo<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Pol<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Bus<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>Ent<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>S&amp;H<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>C&amp;T<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Categories>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/CategoryBasedScheduleScenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/Scenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/Schema>"},{"entry":"\u2003<UserInterfaces>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<UserInterface xml:lang=\u201cen-US\u201d _locID=\u201cL_LocaleID_TEXT\u201d"},{"entry":"_locAttrData=\u201cxml:lang\u201d"},{"entry":"xmlns=\u201chttp:\/\/alerts.microsoft.com\/hosted\/2003\/07\/application\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<CpInfo>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Name _locID=\u201cL_CpInfo_Name_TEXT\u201d>MSN News<\/Name>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<SignupText _locID=\u201cL_CpInfo_SignupText_TEXT\u201d>What's happening in the"},{"entry":"world today? Find out now with MSN News alerts.<\/SignupText>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<SignupImage _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>news53x20.gif<\/SignupImage>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Icon _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>news_24x16.gif<\/Icon>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/CpInfo>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<Subscription type=\u201cCategoryBasedSchedule\u201d>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<CategoryBasedSchedule>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<DisplayName _locID=\u201cL_CpDisplayName_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cThe cp name as it will appear on the website pages\u201d-->MSN"},{"entry":"News<\/DisplayName>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<LogoGraphic _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>news_large.gif<\/LogoGraphic>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<PageText>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<HomePage_Heading _locID=\u201cL_HomePageHeading_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cHome page Header text\u201d-->Sign up for free alerts from MSN"},{"entry":"News<\/HomePage_Heading>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<HomePage_SubHead _locID=\u201cL_HomePageSubHead_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cInstruction text under heading on home page\u201d-->What's"},{"entry":"happening in the world today? Find out now with MSN News"},{"entry":"alerts.<\/HomePage_SubHead>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<HomePage_BulletTwo _locID=\u201cL_HomePageBulletTwo_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cThe second_u98 ?ullet text on home page\u201d-->Select news"},{"entry":"alert categories, then choose delivery times and days.<\/HomePage_BulletTwo>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<ViewPage_Heading _locID=\u201cL_ViewPageHeading_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cView page header text\u201d-->Your MSN News"},{"entry":"alerts<\/ViewPage_Heading>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<ViewPage_SubHead _locID=\u201cL_ViewPageSubHead_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cView page instruction text under heading\u201d-->Click Edit"},{"entry":"Delivery to change the delivery locations for all MSN News alerts. Click"},{"entry":"Edit to change delivery times for individual alerts.<\/ViewPage_SubHead>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<ViewPage_CatHead _locID=\u201cL_ViewPageCatHead_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cView page category column heading text\u201d-->News"},{"entry":"Category<\/ViewPage_CatHead>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<ViewPage_SchedHead _locID=\u201cL_ViewPageSchedHead_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cView page in edit mode heading for times\u201d-->Alert"},{"entry":"Me<\/ViewPage_SchedHead>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<EditPage_Heading _locID=\u201cL_EditPageHeading_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cEdit page header text\u201d-->Edit your MSN News"},{"entry":"alerts<\/EditPage_Heading>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<EditPage_SubHead _locID=\u201cL_EditPageSubHead_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cEdit page instruction text under heading\u201d-->Make your"},{"entry":"changes and click Update.<\/EditPage_SubHead>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<AddPage_Heading _locID=\u201cL_AddPageHeading_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cAdd page header text\u201d-->What MSN News alerts do you want to"},{"entry":"receive?<\/AddPage_Heading>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<AddPage_SubHead _locID=\u201cL_AddPageSubHead_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cAdd page instruction text under heading\u201d-->Select check"},{"entry":"boxes next to news categories, then choose delivery times and"},{"entry":"days.<\/AddPage_SubHead>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<AddPage_ChooseCat _locID=\u201cL_AddPageChooseCat_TEXT\u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cAdd page heading text for category section\u201d-->Choose news"},{"entry":"categories<\/AddPage_ChooseCat>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<AddPage_ChooseTime _locID=\u201cL_AddPageChooseTime_TEXT \u201d><!--"},{"entry":"_locComment_text=\u201cAdd page heading text for schedule section\u201d-->Specify"},{"entry":"delivery times and days<\/AddPage_ChooseTime>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/PageText>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Scenarios>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Scenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Scenario _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>HeadlineNews<\/Scenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201cL_HeadlineNewsScenario_TEXT\u201d>News"},{"entry":"headlines<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Scenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Scenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Scenario _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>SummaryNews<\/Scenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201dL_SummaryNewsScenario_TEXT\u201d>News"},{"entry":"summaries<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Scenario>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Scenarios>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Categories>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>Top<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201cL_CategoryTopStories_TEXT\u201d>Top"},{"entry":"Stories<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>Nat<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201cL_CategoryNational_TEXT\u201d>National<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>Int<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display"},{"entry":"_locID=\u201cL_CategoryInternational_TEXT\u201d>International<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>Spo<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201cL_CategorySports_TEXT\u201d>Sports<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>Pol<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201cL_CategoryPolitics_TEXT\u201d>Politics<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>Bus<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201cL_CategoryBusiness_TEXT\u201d>Business<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>Ent<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display"},{"entry":"_locID=\u201cL_CategoryEntertainment_TEXT\u201d>Entertainment<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>S&amp;H<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201cL_CategoryScienceHealth_TEXT\u201d>Science &amp;"},{"entry":"Health<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Category _loc=\u201clocNone\u201d>C&amp;T<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<Display _locID=\u201cL _CategoryComputersTechnology_TEXT\u201d>Computers"},{"entry":"&amp; Technology<\/Display>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Category>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Categories>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/CategoryBasedSchedule>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003\u2003<\/Subscription>"},{"entry":"\u2003\u2003<\/UserInterface>"},{"entry":"\u2003<\/UserInterfaces>"},{"entry":"<\/Application>"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}}}}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},"Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the drawings."]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
