---
title: Cold spray nozzle design
abstract: A nozzle for use in a cold spray technique is described. The nozzle has a passageway for spraying a powder material, the passageway having a converging section and a diverging section, and at least the diverging section being formed from polybenzimidazole. In one embodiment of the nozzle, the converging section is also formed from polybenzimidazole.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07543764&OS=07543764&RS=07543764
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07543764
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030328
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT(S)"],"p":["This invention was made with Government support under CRADA SC001\/01589 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The Government of the United States of America has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates to an improved nozzle design for use in a cold spray system for depositing metal alloy coatings onto a workpiece.","Cold gas dynamic spraying (e.g. cold spray) is a relatively new technology where powder metal is deposited through solid state bonding. This bonding mechanism is achieved through acceleration of the particles to supersonic speeds through a converging\/diverging (Laval) nozzle using helium and\/or nitrogen gas. U.S. Pat. No. 5,302,414 to Alkhimov et al., which is hereby incorporated by reference herein, illustrates a cold gas dynamic spraying system.","Typical nozzle materials which have been used in cold spray systems include brass, stainless steel, and tool steel. During deposition of certain materials, namely aluminum and some nickel alloys, the nozzle will foul or clog with the metallic powder causing system failure and rework to remove the damaged nozzle. Fouling of aluminum occurs within a matter of 3-4 minutes, whereas a minimum of 8 hours continuous operation is desired to commercialize this new technology.","Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a nozzle which will provide a desired level of continuous operation.","The foregoing object is achieved by the present invention.","In accordance with the present invention, an improved cold spray nozzle comprises a passageway for spraying a powder material, the passageway having a converging section and a diverging section, and at least the diverging section being formed from polybenzimidazole. In one embodiment of the present invention, the converging section is also formed from polybenzimidazole.","Other details of the cold spray nozzle design of the present invention, as well as other objects and advantages attendant thereto, are set forth in the following description and the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals depict like elements.","Referring now to the drawings,  illustrates a system  for cold spraying a powder coating, such as an aluminum powder coating, to the surface of a product. The system  has a casing \u2032 which accommodates a hopper  for a powder having a lid \u2032 mounted by means of thread \u2033, a means for metering the powder, and a mixing chamber, all communicating with each other. The system also has a nozzle  for accelerating powder particles in communication with the mixing chamber, a compressed gas supply  and means connected thereto for supplying the compressed gas to the mixing chamber. The compressed gas supply means is in the form of a pneumatic line , which connects, via a shut-off and control member , the compressed gas supply  to an inlet pipe  of metering feeder . A powder metering means is in the form of a cylindrical drum  having on its cylindrical surface \u2032 depressions  and communicating with the mixing chamber and with the particle acceleration nozzle .","The system also comprises a powder particle flow controller  which is mounted in spaced relation  relative to the cylindrical periphery \u2032 of the drum  so as to ensure the desired mass flow rate of the powder during coating, and an intermediate nozzle  positioned adjacent the mixing chamber and communicating, via the inlet pipe  with the compressed gas supply means and with the compressed gas supply .","To prevent powder particles from getting into a space  between the drum  and casing \u2032 of the metering feeder  and thus to avoid the jamming of the drum , a baffle plate  is provided on the hopper bottom which intimately engages the cylindrical surface \u2032 of the drum .","To ensure a uniform filling of depressions  with the powder and its reliable admission to the mixing chamber, the drum  is mounted to extend horizontally in such a manner that one portion of its cylindrical surface \u2032 is used as a bottom  of hopper  and the other portion forms a wall  of the mixing chamber. Depressions  in the cylindrical surface \u2032 of the drum  extend along a helical line, which lowers fluctuations of the flow rate of powder particles during metering. To impart to a gas flow supersonic velocity with the predetermined profile, with high density and low temperature, and also to ensure acceleration of powder particles to a velocity ranging from 300 to 1200 m\/s, nozzle  for acceleration of the powder particles is made supersonic and has a passageway  of profiled cross section. The passageway  of the nozzle  has a converging section  and a diverging section . Further, the passageway  preferably has one dimension of its flow-section larger than the other dimension and the ratio of the smaller dimension at an edge  of the nozzle to the length \u201c\u201d of the supersonic portion  ranges from about 0.04 to about 0.01.","The passageway  has a construction which allows a gas and powder jet of predetermined profile to be formed, ensures efficient acceleration of the powder, and lowers velocity loss in the compressed gas layer upstream of the surface being coated.","A turbulence nozzle  of compressed gas flow admitted to a nozzle  through the pipe  and leaving the means for compressed gas supply is provided on the inner surface of the intermediate nozzle , at the outlet thereof in the mixing chamber. This turbulence nozzle  ensures an effective removal of powder and formation of a gas and powder mixture. To provide a recoil flow and ensure an effective mixing of powder and gas when the gas flow runs in the portion of the cylindrical surface \u2032 of the drum  forming wall  of the mixing chamber, intermediate nozzle  is mounted in such a manner that its longitudinal axis extends at an angle of from 80 degrees to 85 degrees with respect to a normal drawn to the cylindrical surface \u2032 of the drum .","The apparatus for applying a coating to the surface of a product also comprises means for supplying compressed gas to depressions  in the cylindrical surface \u2032 of drum  and a top part  of the hopper  to balance the pressure in the hopper  and the mixing chamber. The provision of such means removes the pressure exerted on the metering of the powder.","The means for gas supply in the form of a passage  in the casing \u2032 of the metering feeder  which communicates an interior space  of intermediate nozzle  with the top part  of the hopper  and which has a tube  connected to the intermediate nozzle , extends through the hopper  and is bent, at its top part, at an angle of 180 degrees.","The drum  is mounted for rotation in a sleeve  made of plastic material and being engaged with the cylindrical surface \u2032 of the drum . The plastic material of sleeve  is a fluoroplastic TEFLON which ensures the preservation of the shape of drum  by absorbing the powder particles. The provision of sleeve  lowers wear of the drum  and reduces alterations of its surface \u2032, and also eliminates its jamming.","The apparatus for applying a coating shown in  functions in the following manner. A compressed gas from the gas supply  is supplied along the pneumatic line , via shut-off and control member , to the inlet pipe  of metering feeder , the gas being accelerated by means of intermediate nozzle  and directed at an angle of between 80 and 85 degrees to impinge against the cylindrical surface \u2032 of the drum  which is stationary and then gets into the mixing chamber from which it escapes through the profiled supersonic nozzle . Supersonic nozzle  is brought to operating conditions (5 to 20 atm.) by means of the shut-off and control member , thus forming a supersonic gas jet at a velocity ranging from 300 to 1200 m\/s.","The powder from the hopper  gets to the cylindrical surface \u2032 of the drum  to fill depressions  and, during rotation of the drum, the powder is transferred into the mixing chamber. The gas flow formed by the intermediate nozzle  and turbulized by the turbulence nozzle  blows the powder off the cylindrical surface \u2032 of the drum  into the mixing chamber wherein a gas and powder mixture is formed. The flow rate of the powder is preset by the number of revolutions of the drum  and space  between the drum  and powder flow controller . The baffle plate  prevents the powder from getting into the space  between the casing \u2032 and drum . The gas from intermediate nozzle  is additionally separated along passages  to be admitted into the space  between the drum  and the casing \u2032 to purge and clean it from the remaining powder, and through the tube , the gas gets into the top part  of the hopper  balances the pressure in the hopper  and the mixing chamber. The gas and powder mixture from the mixing chamber is accelerated in the supersonic portion  of the passage . A high-speed gas and powder jet is thus formed which is determined by the cross-sectional configuration of the passage  with the velocity of particles and density of their flow rate necessary for the formation of a coating. For the given profile of the supersonic portion  of passage , the density of mass flow rate of powder particles is specified by the metering feeder , and the velocity of particles is prescribed by the usable gas. For example, by varying the percentage of helium in a mixture with air between zero percent and 100 percent, the velocity of powder particles can be varied between 300 and 1200 m\/s.","In accordance with the present invention, referring now to , clogging of the passageway  in the supersonic nozzle  is prevented by forming at least the diverging section  from polybenzimidazole. Polybenzimidazole has the formulation poly(2,2\u2032-(m-phenylene)-5,5\u2032-bibenzimidazole). Advantageously, both the converging section  and the diverging section  may be formed from this material in a single nozzle structure. Such a monolithic configuration of the nozzle.  is particularly useful when spraying aluminum and aluminum alloys onto a workpiece. Polybenzimidazole is stable up to 800 degrees Fahrenheit. It is a very hard polymer having a Rockwell E of 105 and excellent erosion resistance properties. Further, this material can be compression molded to whatever dimensions are needed. It can also be easily machined from barstock to very fine tolerances.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 5","b":["4","102"]},"To demonstrate the advantages of using polybenzimidazole in a cold spray nozzle, a nozzle erosion test was performed using a nozzle formed from a monolithic polybenzimidazole structure. The jet conditions were 250 psig helium at 300 degrees centigrade using H-20 aluminum, which is a product name for 99.7% pure aluminum provided by Valimet Corporation, at a feed rate of about 12 grams per minute.  shows the erosion rate as a function of time for the nozzle. Most of the erosion occurred during the initial five minutes run period. This erosion occurred around the throat area between the converging and diverging sections. After the initial erosion, the nozzle lost about 0.64 milligrams per minute.  shows a ranking of nozzle materials in terms of weight change versus time. This figure shows that a nozzle formed from polybenzimidazole is better than a wide variety of other potential nozzle materials.","The test which was performed also showed no fouling when polybenzimidazole was used. Follow-on trials continue to demonstrate successful spraying of aluminum for eight hours without fouling.","It is apparent that there has been provided in accordance with the present invention a cold spray nozzle design which fully satisfies the objects, means, and advantages set forth hereinbefore. While the present invention has been described in the context of specific embodiments thereof, other alternatives, modifications, and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art having read the foregoing description. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace those alternatives, modifications, and variations as fall within the broad scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 1"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
