---
title: System and method for enhancing the experience of participant in a massively multiplayer game
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for transforming music played by characters, objects and non-player characters in order to produce an enhanced audio experience for players within a massively multiplayer game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07828657&OS=07828657&RS=07828657
owner: Turbine, Inc.
number: 07828657
owner_city: Westwood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030520
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This invention relates generally to multiplayer computer games, and in particular, to methods for improving the experience of a participant in a massively multiplayer game.","A massively multiplayer game (\u201cMMP\u201d) is a computer game played by a large number of users through a communications network, which can be a local area network (e.g., Ethernet), a medium-area network (e.g., an intranet), or a wide-area network (e.g., the Internet). In addition, the communications network can be a wireless network, a cellular network or any other system which facilitates the transmission of data. In MMPs, humans and their avatars within the game (\u201cplayers\u201d) are free to interact with other players as well as autonomous \u201cnon-player characters\u201d which inhabit and are part of the game. Early examples of MMPs include games such as Ultima Online, EverQuest, and CrossGate.","Most MMPs are fantasy role-playing games (\u201cRPGs\u201d) which take place within a mythical or mystical world. Most MMPs appear timeless, in that from the player's perspective they have no beginning and no end. New players can join a game in progress at any time, and do not need to wait for the start of a new game. In addition, many MMPs do not even define an absolute game endpoint, making the end of a game a logical impossibility. Thus, once a game has started, it can continue indefinitely. The players of that MMP are thereby involved in a continuing storyline akin to life within the real world. MMPs allow players to develop their avatars, form personal relationships with other players, and to enjoy social interaction through the reality of the game.","In order to make MMPs more immersive for their players, MMP creators constantly strive to provide a richer and more complete sensory interaction. While much attention has been devoted to improving the content, graphic depiction and haptic interfaces between MMPs and their players, there has been less attention devoted to the audio components of MMPs. However, developers are always seeking new methods and systems to improve the soundtracks and musical content of their games. Accordingly, new systems methods are needed to improve players' audio experiences of MMPs.","In satisfaction of this need, embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for enriching the audio characteristics of MMPs.","In accordance with one aspect of the invention, a method is provided for enhancing the experience of a player participating in a computer game. This method comprises determining a player's contextual location, selecting a groove level based upon the context, playing a background theme based upon the player's location and groove level and enabling the first player to play a melody. This melody can then be synchronized either with the background theme or with the melodies of other players, non-player characters or other objects. In addition, methods are provided which allow for expansion of the audio experience of all players within the game.","In accordance with another aspect of the invention, a system is provided for enhancing the experience of a player participating in a computer game. Specifically, the system includes a context module, a groove module, a background theme database and a sound output module. The context module receives location coordinates of a player within the virtual world and determines a context for the first player based upon these coordinates. The groove module selects a groove level based upon the number of players and non-player characters present in the first player's context. The background theme database stores a plurality of background themes. A sound output module selects one of the plurality of background themes based upon the first player's context and the groove level. Finally, a user is able to play a melody in harmony with the background theme.","The methods and systems to enhance the audio experience of a player participating in a MMP will now be described with respect to preferred embodiments; however, the methods and systems of the present invention are not limited to massively multiplayer games. Rather, the methods and systems can be used in any computer game or environment in which it is useful or enjoyable to provide context specific audio. Moreover, the skilled artisan will readily appreciate that the methods and systems described herein are merely exemplary and that variations can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.","The present invention will be more completely understood through the following detailed description, which should be read in conjunction with the attached drawings. In this description, like numbers refer to similar elements within various embodiments of the present invention.","System Architecture","While the content and nature of MMPs is the key to their widespread success, it is important to understand the technological underpinnings of a typical MMP. While it is possible to host and play a computer game, and even an MMP, on a single computer, it is not preferred for MMPs. Accordingly, the following description of an exemplary system architecture is provided.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"The system  includes a server platform  and a client or player platform . The server platform  can include a plurality of individual servers , , . The client platform  can include a plurality of individual clients , , , . The number of clients is virtually limitless, constrained only by the physical characteristics of the server platform , client platform  and a communications network  connecting the two. As will be appreciated, the system  is a distributed virtual environment tailored to facilitate MMPs.","Each of the clients , , ,  preferably comprises a personal computer running client software which facilitates a player's operation of and interaction with the game. However, in other embodiments the clients , , ,  may also comprise other devices, including but not limited to, cellular telephones (such as the Motorola Inc. A388c), wireless or palmtop computers (such as the Series 7 by Psion PLC), portable digital assistants (such as the Tungsten C by Palm Inc.), handheld game systems (such as the Gameboy Advance by Nintendo of America Inc.), game consoles (such as the Play Station 2 by Sony Corporation of America), etc.","Each client , , ,  is generally responsible for displaying interacting objects (other players, terrain, non-player characters, etc.), displaying the game's interface, processing a player's inputs, playing music and sound and performing other CPU or bandwidth intensive operations.","Each of the servers , ,  generally includes a computer system having a server platform portion of the game for communication, database storage, coordination, and overall control and administration of the game. The servers , ,  generally maintain state information and coordinate client interaction with various objects in a virtual environment, including but not limited to other clients, vehicles, artificial intelligence, terrain, music and sound. Each server , ,  provides additional functions, such as security, recording game goals and scoring and tracking each player's advancement towards those goals.","The clients , , ,  communicate with the server platform  via the communication network . In the preferred embodiment, the communication network  depicted comprises the internet, but in other embodiments the communication network  could be an intranet, WAN or LAN, or any other type of network utilized for communicating between the server platform  and the client platform . For example, the communications network  could include, without limitation, a wireless network, a cellular network or any other system which facilitates the transmission of data. Each client , , ,  has an associated communications link (or session) with one or more of the servers , , . As shown in , client   could communicate with server A  via a communications link . Similarly, client   could communicate with server B  via communications link . The servers , ,  are preferably interconnected via a communications network . In the embodiment shown in , the communications network  is depicted as a dedicated network, but could also be a shared network such as the Internet.","During operation of the system , a particular client, for example client  , which desires to enter the game communicates through a communications link  with an allocated server A . The determination of which specific server , ,  a particular client is linked with will depend on a number of parameters, such as server load, number of clients, location of clients, status of client (e.g., position) within the game itself, and other parameters as are known to those skilled in the art. In the particular embodiment shown in , the number of servers , ,  needed for allocation depends upon the number of clients.  illustrates operation of the system  when a large number of clients , , ,  are logged onto a plurality of servers , , .","When there are relatively few clients  participating in the game, only one server is typically needed to serve the clients . During game operation, there is often no need for direct communication between clients. The server platform  communicates with each client its positional, status and event data (referred to as client or player data, or as a player's attributes) for every other player and object the client can see or interact with inside the virtual environment of the game. Such player data includes, but is not limited to, avatar attributes, type, physics modeling, scoring, position, orientation, motion vector, animation, background music, player music, inventory, vehicle, call sign, or other client or object attributes necessary for the particular game. Typically, the server includes a database of information that is maintained and updated as the players interact within the game. Through the interaction between the client platform  and the server platform , the game is facilitated.","Virtual Environment of the Game",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2"],"b":["1","202","2","204"]},"As shown in , the bunny  and the chick  are located with a mountain range context . This context  defines many parameters of the game. Within the preferred embodiment of the claimed invention, these parameters can include characteristics such as temperature, ambient noises, musical selection, groove level, number and type of non-player characters, etc. For example, the temperature of the mountain range context might be lower than comfortable for the bunny  and the chick . In order to continue playing, Player  and Player  can need to direct the bunny  and the chick , respectively, to a warmer region such as a campfire (not illustrated). Alternately, the respective players can navigate the bunny  and the chick  to an area where they can obtain warm clothing (not illustrated). Should they find such an area, the bunny  and the chick  can either wear the warm clothing or add it to their personal storage spaces, or \u201cinventories\u201d for later use. In addition to storing clothing, a character's inventory can be used to store items and objects of various types, including weapons, armor and musical instruments.","Non-player characters can also be present within the context of the mountain range . For example, a non-player dragon character  (the \u201cdragon\u201d) can reside within the mountain range . The dragon  is not controllable by any player. Instead, the dragon  exists and interacts with other players, non-player characters, objects and contexts through the preprogrammed game logic. For example, the dragon  can seek to consume the chick  and the bunny , should they venture within his portion of the mountain range .","The \u201cgroove level\u201d of a particular context is a variable affiliated with the amount of excitement or tension level of that specific context. The groove level increases as excitement or tension increases, and decreases as excitement or tension abates from a specific context. Each context is assigned a default groove level. As the game progresses, a variety of factors can affect the groove level for a given context, including, without limitation, the number of players in the context, the number of non-player characters in the context, objects in a context, and the interaction between players, non-player characters and objects in the context.","As an example, consider the groove level of the mountain range . Preferably, the mountain range  has a default groove level \u03b3. When the bunny  is alone within the mountain range , the groove level remains at the default setting, \u03b3, because there is not much tension in the context. Assuming that they bear no hostility towards each other, when the chick  joins the bunny  in the mountain range , the groove level can be decreased by a predetermined amount, e.g., \u03b3\u22121. However, when the bunny and dragon  appears in the mountain range , the tension can be increased. Accordingly, the groove level can be increased by a predetermined amount, e.g., \u03b3+1. Should a second dragon (not illustrated) or other non-player character enter the mountain range , the groove level would be again modified by the predetermined amount. In this fashion, the number and type of objects, players, and non-player characters within a given context modifies the groove level of that particular context. One skilled in the art would recognize that alternate modifications of the groove level are equivalent to the illustrate example, including, without limitation, altering the groove level through multiplication and division, alphabetical shifting, integration and derivation, or even through a complex polynomial equation.","Audio Environment of the Game","In addition to providing the virtual environment and groove level described above, a context also preferably provides an enjoyable audio environment. Preferably, any time that the bunny  and the chick  are within the mountain range , Player  and Player  will hear sounds and music associated with that particular context. For example, each player can hear one or more of the following:\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"b":["302","304","306"]},"Operation of the Preferred Embodiment","The operation of the preferred embodiment of the present invention is hereby described with reference to .","In the preferred embodiment, the first theme  for the mountain range  contains a repeating chord progression based upon a groove level \u03b3, comprising one bar each of the chords C, E, G, and returning to C. While a character, for example, the bunny , is present in the mountain range , this chord progression will loop indefinitely as an integral part of the background theme.","Upon the occurrence of an external event, the groove level is changed. In one embodiment, when the dragon  appears in the mountain range , the groove level of the mountain range context  is increased to represent the increased tension that the bunny  must feel. Accordingly, at the end of the current iteration of the first theme  the background theme changes its chord progression to that of the second theme . The second theme  contains a repeating chord progression based upon an increased groove level, comprising one bar each of the chords C, E, G, and returning to C.","Similarly, upon the occurrence of another external event, the groove level is again changed. When a second dragon (not shown) appears in the mountain range , the groove level of the mountain range context  is increased to a still higher level to represent the additionally heightened tension that the bunny  must feel. Accordingly, at the end of the current iteration of the second theme  the background theme changes its chord progression again to that of the third theme . The third theme  contains a repeating chord progression based upon the still higher groove level, comprising one bar each of the chords C, E, G, and returning to C.","Thus, in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the chord progression underlying the background theme is transposed from a Dorian progression to a Half-Tone progression. Similarly, should the dragons be dispatched, or should a similarly tension-reducing event occur (e.g., the chick  entering the mountain range ), the groove level would revert to a lower level and the background theme would once again make use of the Dorian chord progression.","In addition to the context-sensitive background music, the preferred embodiment of the present invention allows players and non-player characters to play context-sensitive musical accompaniment to the background melody. Specifically, each player's character can play music in one of two ways. First, if a player's character has a musical instrument within its inventory, the character can use the instrument to play a melody of the player's choice, in order to put on a \u201cperformance\u201d. Second, if a player's character does not have an instrument, that character can make percussion sounds with its body, or \u201cbeatbox.\u201d","Although in the absence of a background melody, a player will hear his or her character's music as a solo performance, the preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a method and system for synchronizing and harmonizing a character's musical performance with both the background music and the musical performances of other players' characters, non-player characters and objects within a given context. Preferably, if a character is musically performing while in a context wherein there is background music, the game will change that character's music such that (1) the character's melody is transformed to harmonize with the background music's key, mode and pitch, and (2) the tempo of the character's melody will be increased or decreased to match that of the background music. In addition, the character's music will similarly be transformed to harmonize with any other performances currently occurring in the same context. Melody transposition and tempo matching can be performed by making calls to the DirectMusic Application Programming Interface, manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond, Wash.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0044"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"]},"In the first step , the chick  is present within the context of the mountain range . As the chick  is alone, the groove level for the mountain range  is at its default value \u03b3. Accordingly, the background theme for the mountain range  is playing. While there, the chick  obtains from its inventory a cello (not shown), and begins a new musical performance. The game software automatically transforms the chick's  music to harmonize with the background theme and match the chick's  rhythm to that of the background theme.","In the second step , the bunny  enters the mountain range  scene. The bunny's  appearance causes the groove level to decrease. Hearing the chick's  performance inspires the bunny to join in. However, as it has no instruments in its inventory, the bunny  must resort to beatboxing. The beatboxing bunny  begins its performance while the chick  continues playing its musical melody. The game software transforms both the chick's  music and the bunny's  beats to harmonize with the background theme and tempo at the revised groove level.","In the third step , two non-player dragons  (only one is illustrated) appear at the mountain range . Their appearance increases the tension within the mountain range context  and causes the groove level to increase. In addition, each dragon causes its own dragon theme to be played and, as necessary, transformed to harmonize with the background theme.","As part of its inventory, each dragon  carries a drumset. In the fourth step , the two dragons  begin their own drum performances. Thereafter, the game software transforms the music and beats of the two dragons , the chick  and the bunny  to harmonize with the background theme and tempo at the increased groove level.","In the fifth step , the two dragons  are dispatched. In addition, the bunny  leaves the mountain range . Accordingly, the groove level returns to its default level \u03b3. The chick  ends its performance, and the sole remaining music is the background theme associated with the mountain region .","The present invention can be provided as one or more computer-readable programs embodied on or in one or more articles of manufacture. The article of manufacture can be a floppy disk, a hard disk, a CD ROM, a flash memory card, a PROM, a RAM, a ROM, or a magnetic tape. In general, the computer-readable programs can be implemented in any programming language. Some examples of languages that can be used include C, C++, or JAVA. The software programs can be stored on or in one or more articles of manufacture as object code.","In this fashion, embodiments of the present invention transform music played by characters, objects and non-player characters in mode, tempo and key in order to produce symphonic sounds within a massively multiplayer game. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various omissions, additions and modifications can be made to the methods and systems described above without departing from the scope of the invention, and all such modifications and changes are intended to fall within the scope of the invention, as defined by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other aspects of this invention will be readily apparent from the detailed description below and the appended drawings, which are meant to illustrate and not to limit the invention, and in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
