---
title: Vibration absorber jack
abstract: A vibration absorber jack including a tripod type base, a jack, an absorber positioning mechanism, and a vibration absorber holder. The jack is attached to the base, the absorber positioning mechanism disposed on top of the jack; and, the vibration absorber holder attached to the absorber positioning mechanism such that the vibration absorber holder can be positioned and moved by the absorber positioning mechanism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07143998&OS=07143998&RS=07143998
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secrectary of the Navy
number: 07143998
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030912
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DESCRIPTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.","The present invention relates to a vibration absorber jack. More specifically, but without limitation, the present invention relates to a vibration absorber jack for the installation and removal of cabin vibration absorbers in aircraft.","Aircraft, specifically military helicopters, have cabin vibration absorbers. Cabin vibration absorbers are typically defined, but without limitation, as mechanisms that minimize or take in aircraft cabin vibrations without echo, recoil, or reflection. Cabin vibration absorbers are commonly used in helicopters and are typically disposed in the cabin overhead above passengers or cargo. Military helicopters, specifically the Navy's MH-60S helicopter, utilize a 140-pound vibration absorber. Because of the continuous and the strenuous use by the military these vibration absorbers must often be changed or repaired. The current method to install vibration absorbers includes utilizing a minimum of three people, two to lift and position the absorber, and one to align the bolts with corresponding anchor nuts. This process may take a period of time, causing fatigue to the installers. This procedure can cause potential harm to the installers and\/or damage to the aircraft. Utilizing this procedure, the bolts may be improperly installed or misaligned. Furthermore, misalignment between the bolts has caused bolt shear failure that can cause harm to passengers and\/or damage to cargo or the aircraft.","Thus, there is a need in the art to provide a method or mechanism that incorporates the listed benefits without the limitations inherent in present methods. For the foregoing reasons, there is a need for a vibration absorber jack which helps install a vibration absorber.","The instant invention is directed to a vibration absorber jack that satisfies the needs enumerated above and below.","The present invention is directed to a vibration absorber jack that includes a tripod type base, a jack, an absorber positioning mechanism, and a vibration absorber holder. The jack is attached to the base; the absorber positioning mechanism is disposed on top of the jack; and, the vibration absorber holder is attached to the absorber positioning mechanism such that the vibration absorber holder can be positioned and moved by the absorber positioning mechanism.","The present invention is directed to a vibration absorber jack that allows one person to install a vibration absorber.","It is an object of the invention to provide a vibration absorber jack that minimizes bolt misalignment in the installation of vibration absorbers.","It is an object of the invention to provide a vibration absorber jack that provides for safe installation of a vibration absorber.","The preferred embodiment of the present invention is illustrated by way of example below and in , ,  and . As seen in , the vibration absorber jack  includes a tripod type base , a jack , an absorber positioning mechanism , and a vibration absorber holder .","In the discussion of the present invention, the invention will be discussed in a military helicopter environment; however, this invention can be utilized for any type of need that requires a jack, specifically, but without limitation, in the installation of a vibration absorber.","A tripod type base  is typically defined, but without limitation, as a three legged support or stand. As seen in , each of the legs  may have a leg base . Each leg base  is attachable to the cabin floor .","A jack  is typically defined, but without limitation, as a device that lifts heavy objects short heights, using various mechanical, pneumatic or hydraulic methods. The preferred type of jack  is a ball-screw jack . A ball-screw jack  typically features a heavy-duty screw\/nut drive system utilizing a series of bearing balls between the screw and nut to improve the screw's mechanical efficiency and wear life. As seen in , the jack  may include a worm gear assembly , a jack shaft , and a jack wheel . The worm gear assembly , the jack shaft  and the jack wheel  communicate with each other such that when turning the jack wheel , the worm gear assembly  is turned and the worm gear assembly  adjusts the height of the jack shaft . The jack shaft  may be telescopic in nature. As seen in , the tripod type base  may also include tripod levers  that are rotatably attached to each leg  and slidably attached to the jack shaft . The tripod levers  can slide up and down the jack shaft  to fold the legs  together for storage.","As seen in , the worm gear assembly  may include a worm gear center gear , a jack wheel shaft , a worm gear cylinder gear  and a jack inner shaft . The jack wheel shaft  extends from the jack wheel  such that turning the jack wheel  correspondingly turns the jack wheel shaft . The worm gear cylinder gear  overlaps the jack wheel shaft . Both the worm gear cylinder gear  and jack wheel shaft  are axially aligned such that when turning the jack wheel shaft , the worm gear cylinder gear  is also turned. The worm gear cylinder gear  and worm gear center gear  communicate such that when the worm gear cylinder gear  is turned by the jack wheel , the worm gear center gear  is also turned. This is accomplished by a teeth and grooves system . The worm gear center gear  communicates with the jack inner shaft  such that when the worm gear center gear  is turned the jack inner shaft  is moving in a corresponding upward or downward direction. As seen in , the jack inner shaft  may be threaded and the worm gear center gear  and jack inner shaft  may communicate by a teeth and grooves system. The worm gear assembly  may be disposed within the jack shaft .","The vibration absorber jack  may include a collar . The collar  may envelop a portion of the the jack shaft . Each leg  may be rotatably attached to the collar . As seen in , in the preferred embodiment, each leg  has a leg first end portion  and a leg second end portion . The leg first end portion  is attached to the collar , while the leg second end portion  is attachable to the cabin floor . As previously described, at the leg second end portion  there may be leg base  that is directly attachable to a floor. Within the collar , a portion of the jack shaft  and the worm gear assembly  may be located. The jack wheel  may be located on the outside of the collar , with a portion of the jack wheel shaft  emanating from the collar .","As shown in , the absorber positioning mechanism  may be a pivoting assembly . The pivoting assembly  includes a pivoting assembly main bracket , a first pivoting assembly bracket , a second pivoting assembly bracket , a stabilizer , and a linkage . The pivoting assembly main bracket  is attached to the top portion of the jack , specifically the top portion of the jack shaft . As the jack shaft  is lowered and raised the pivoting assembly  moves in tandem with the jack shaft .","The pivoting assembly main bracket  may include two bracket legs . As seen in , the pivoting assembly main bracket  is an angle bracket with an angle between the bracket legs  at least 90 degrees but no more than 180 degrees. The pivoting assembly main bracket  may include a first main bracket end portion  and a second main bracket end portion . At the first main bracket end portion , there may be a slot  or elongated embrasure. At the second main bracket end portion  there may a hole or aperture. The first pivoting assembly bracket  at one end may be . . . slidably attached to the first main bracket end portion . As seen in , the first pivoting assembly bracket  is attached by a fastener, such as but without limitation, a bolt or a dowel and may slide along the slot . The vibration absorber holder  is attached to the first pivoting assembly bracket  at the other end of the first pivoting assembly bracket . The linkage  is rotatably attached to the second main bracket end portion  at one end of the linkage , and rotatably attached to the second pivoting assembly bracket  at the second end. The stabilizer  is attached to the linkage  at a point between the two ends. The stabilizer  is rotatably attached to the linkage  at one end and rotatably attached to the pivoting assembly main bracket  at the other end. The stabilizer  may be a two-link system, with a first stabilizer link  and a second stabilizer link , that allows upward, downward and angular movement of the vibration absorber holder . The first stabilizer link  and the second stabilizer link  may be rotatably attached to each other.","As seen in , the preferred embodiment of pivoting assembly  includes two pivoting assembly main brackets , two first pivoting assembly brackets , two second pivoting assembly brackets , two stabilizers , and two linkages . They may all be parallel to each other. A stabilizing block  may be located between the two pivoting assembly main brackets . Another embodiment may include two substantially similar separate pivoting assemblies  that perform the same function and operate in tandem.","The vibration absorber jack  may also include a pivoting assembly handle . The pivoting assembly handle  moves the linkage(s)  such that the vibration absorber holder  may be angled and angularly adjusted.","The vibration absorber holder  may be a substantially flat surface that can balance and hold the vibration absorber. As seen in , the vibration absorber holder  may be substantially rectangular and include a holder lip  enveloping a holder base .","When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment(s) thereof, the articles \u201ca,\u201d \u201can,\u201d \u201cthe,\u201d and \u201csaid\u201d are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms \u201ccomprising,\u201d \u201cincluding,\u201d and \u201chaving\u201d are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.","Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred versions thereof, other versions are possible. Therefore, the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"DRAWINGS","p":["These and other features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with reference to the following description and appended claims, and accompanying drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
