---
title: Low-power SRAM E-fuse repair methodology
abstract: A low power E-fuse repair methodology substantially removes system latency during memory and/or E-fuse farm module power-down in a device that employs E-fuse farm technology. The method maintains power to the repair registers and minimal control logic in the memories, while all other circuitry can be either placed in a low power data retention mode, or completely powered off. There is no need to rescan the repair data from the E-fuse farm after one or more memories are powered back up. This provides dynamic power savings since there is no longer any need to idle the system to reload repair data. Since the E-fuse farm can be powered down after initial system power-up and repair data is loaded into the memories, there is also a significant leakage power savings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07152187&OS=07152187&RS=07152187
owner: Texas Instruments Incorporated
number: 07152187
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20031126
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["1. Field of the Invention","This invention relates generally to devices utilizing memories with repair capabilities, and more particularly to a method for substantially removing system latency during memory and\/or E-fuse farm module power-down in a device that employs E-fuse farm technology.","2. Description of the Prior Art","Devices utilizing memories with repair capability require an E-fuse farm module be included on the device chip. The E-fuse farm contains the programmable fuse elements for storing the repair information as well as the control logic for programming and loading the repair information into the memories. The repair information is loaded into the memories from the E-fuse farm module upon device power-up via a serial scan chain path connecting the E-fuse farm and the memories. Once the repair information has been scanned into the memories, the E-fuse farm logic performs no additional functions and remains idle. In current implementations, power must be maintained to all memories in the device and the E-fuse farm module. One current E-fuse farm implementation is illustrated in  that depicts a plurality of SRAM memory devices , , , , each containing its distinct set of repair data registers , , , , connected to an E-fuse farm . If power is cut to one or more memories , , ,  and\/or the E-fuse farm , the repair information will be lost and access to the memories will not be possible until the device is powered off and then on again to reload the repair data. Current implementations thus provide no methodology to power down one or more memories for low power\/leakage applications.","In view of the foregoing, it would be both beneficial and advantageous to provide a method for substantially removing system latency during memory and\/or E-fuse farm module power-down in a device that employs E-fuse farm technology.","To meet the above and other objectives, the present invention provides a method for substantially removing system latency during memory and\/or E-fuse farm module power-down in a device that employs E-fuse farm technology. The method maintains power to the repair registers and minimal control logic in the memories, while all other circuitry can be either placed in a low power data retention mode, or completely powered off. There is no need to rescan the repair data from the E-fuse farm after one or more memories are powered back up. This provides dynamic power savings since there is no longer any need to idle the system to reload repair data. Since the E-fuse farm can be powered down after initial system power-up and repair data is loaded into the memories, there is also a significant leakage power savings.","According to one embodiment, a memory repair method comprises the steps of:","providing an E-fuse farm storing memory repair information, and a memory module comprising associated memory module circuitry, power control logic and repair data registers;","powering up the E-fuse farm and the memory module, and loading the repair information into the memory module via the E-fuse farm during the power-up; and","maintaining power to the power control logic and repair data registers during loss of power to the E-fuse farm and associated memory module circuitry, such that the memory repair information is retained by the memory module during the loss of power to the E-fuse farm and associated memory module circuitry.","According to another embodiment, a memory repair method comprises the steps of:","providing a device including an E-fuse farm storing memory repair information, and at least one memory module comprising associated memory module circuitry, power control logic and repair data registers;","powering up the device, and transferring the repair information into the memory module via the E-fuse farm during the power-up; and","maintaining power to the memory module power control logic and memory module repair data registers during loss of power to the E-fuse farm and associated memory module circuitry, such that the memory repair information is retained by the memory module during the loss of power to the E-fuse farm and associated memory module circuitry.","According to yet another embodiment, a memory device with repair capability comprises:","a supply voltage;","power control logic connected to the supply voltage;","at least one switch connected to the supply voltage;","a memory array connected to the at least one switch;","peripheral logic connected to the at least one switch; and","repair data registers connected to the supply voltage and the at least one switch, wherein the at least one switch is operational to remove power to the peripheral logic, the memory array and selected portions of the repair data registers in response to power control logic signals such that memory repair data is retained in the repair data registers subsequent to power down of the peripheral logic, the memory array, and the selected portions of the repair data registers.","According to still another embodiment, a memory device with repair capability comprises:","a supply voltage;","power control logic connected to the supply voltage;","at least one switch selected from the group consisting of a Vss footer switch, and a Vdd header switch;","a memory array connected to the at least one switch;","peripheral logic connected to the at least one switch; and","repair data registers connected to the supply voltage and the at least one switch, wherein the at least one switch is operational to remove power to the peripheral logic, the memory array and selected portions of the repair data registers in response to power control logic signals such that memory repair data is retained in the repair data registers subsequent to power down of the peripheral logic, the memory array, and the selected portions of the repair data registers.","According to still another embodiment, a device with memory repair capability comprises:","power management control logic;","an E-fuse farm; and","at least one memory module comprising repair data registers, wherein the at least one memory module operates to maintain memory repair data in the repair data registers in response to power management control logic signals during loss of power to portions of the device.","While the above-identified drawing figures set forth particular embodiments, other embodiments of the present invention are also contemplated, as noted in the discussion. In all cases, this disclosure presents illustrated embodiments of the present invention by way of representation and not limitation. Numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art which fall within the scope and spirit of the principles of this invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"b":["10","12","14","16","18","20","22","24","26","10","12","14","16","26"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["28","28","18","20","22","24","10","12","14","16","26","10","12","14","16","28","26","10","12","14","16"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["30","30","32","34","36","38","40","44","32","34","36","38","40","44","46","48","34","30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3","FIG. 3","FIG. 4"],"b":["50","30","52","54","56","32","52","30","52","30","58","52","50"]},"In view of the above, it can be seen the present invention presents a significant advancement in the art of memory repair techniques. Further, this invention has been described in considerable detail in order to provide those skilled in the memory art with the information needed to apply the novel principles and to construct and use such specialized components as are required. In view of the foregoing descriptions, it should further be apparent that the present invention represents a significant departure from the prior art in construction and operation. However, while particular embodiments of the present invention have been described herein in detail, it is to be understood that various alterations, modifications and substitutions can be made therein without departing in any way from the spirit and scope of the present invention, as defined in the claims which follow."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Other aspects and features of the present invention and many of the attendant advantages of the present invention will be readily appreciated, as the invention becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawing figures thereof and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
