---
title: Polarimeter using quantum well stacks separated by gratings
abstract: Each quantum well stack is included in separate circuit having a voltage bias and a current meter. The voltage bias across each circuit is individually adjusted, and the photocurrent in each circuit, as measured by the respective current meter, is proportional to the flux of light absorbed by the respective quantum well stack. The four photocurrents are linearly mapped to the four Stokes parameters, which, in turn, represent the polarization of the incident light.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=06906800&OS=06906800&RS=06906800
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 06906800
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030314
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","EXAMPLE ONE","EXAMPLE TWO"],"p":["The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph l(a) of Executive Order 10096, as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force, to the entire right, title and interest therein, including foreign rights.","In an intensity image, each pixel responds with a change in voltage of current due to arrival of light at a given wavelength on the focal plane, e.g., no voltage for no light impinging the pixel, some voltage (for some light) or maximum voltage (for maximum intensity). Associating a color or degree of black with the reported voltages forms an image. For example, the low light pixels become black, the pixels with some light become gray, and the pixels with excessive light appear white.","In a polarimetric image, each pixel also provides the polarization state of the incident light incident on that pixel. The polarization state is given by the intensity plus three additional values indicating the fraction of the light that was polarized, the axis of polarization, and whether the polarization is rotating in time. Polarimetric imaging thus provides more information than intensity imaging.","Polarimetric imaging is particularly useful in discerning man-made objects because they typically have a higher degree of polarization, hereinafter referred to as \u201cDOP,\u201d than natural objects. Polarization information also provides information regarding the surface roughness and orientation of an object that is not readily available from an intensity image. It has also been used to advantage in remote sensing, automatic target recognition, identifying materials, and distinguishing objects from a cluttered background.","Polarimetric data is often represented in terms of the four Stokes parameters, S, S, S, and S. These parameters represent all the polarization information, and are defined as follows:","\u2003,\n\n,\n\n, and\n\n\n","where Iis the measured intensity of the light after passing through a linear filter at an orientation of X degrees, and","Iand Iare the measured intensities of the right or left circularly polarized fraction of the light.","The DOP, in terms of Stokes parameters, is given by\n\n\n","Imaging polarimeters of the prior art typically collect several different images of the same object, with the light emanating from the object passing through a different polarization filter in each image. A variation described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,045,701 uses a rotating quarter-wave plate with a linear filter. With a single focal plane, this device takes several images at different rotations, respectively, of the polarizing filter. The collected images are averaged and subtracted to extract the four Stokes parameters at each pixel. To perform the subtraction, one registers pixels from the different images that represent the same point in the scene. However, because the images are taken at different times, any motion in the image will cause a registration error. This precludes the use of this apparatus to obtain polarimetric images of terrestrial objects from moving platforms, such as airplanes or orbiting satellites, or images of objects that are translating or rotating with respect to the apparatus.","Another approach uses four separate cameras with a different polarization filter on each camera. The four cameras take simultaneous images of the same scene. Again, the appropriate images are added and subtracted to extract the four Stokes parameters; however, parallax and camera misalignment will introduce registration errors into the derived image.","A third approach to polarization detection capitalizes on the polarization-dependent absorption of quantum wells, and is described by D. W. Beekman and J. Van And a, \u201cPolarization Sensitive QWIP Thermal Imager,\u201d , Vol. 42, pp. 323-328 (2001). As will subsequently be discussed in detail, a quantum well with a linear grating can detect the component of incident light with the electric field perpendicular to the grooves of the grating. On a single focal plane, one makes neighboring pixels sensitive to vertical, horizontal or diagonal polarizations. Again, one adds or subtracts the images taken by the pixels sensitive to the different polarizations. Because the pixels being added and subtracted for each polarization image spatially neighboring points in the scene, sharp edges or bright points register as erroneous polarization.","The final example is called a polarimetric spectral intensity modulation spectropolarimeter, and is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,490,043. This device measures the polarization of a single point in a scene by modulating the spectrum of the light with the polarization of the light and then measuring the spectrum of the light. In order to find the polarization one must compare the modulated spectrum to the true spectrum. Because the true spectrum is not known, approximations must be made that necessarily sacrifice polarimetric and spectral accuracy and precision in favor of pixel registration.","As shown by the foregoing discussion, there is a need in the art for a polarimeter capable of providing polarized images of an object that is translating or rotating relative to the position or orientation of the focal plane without sacrificing spectral or polarimetric accuracy and precision. The present invention fulfills this need in the art.","Quantum well stacks are used in combination with linear gratings to determine the degree of polarization of incident light in terms of Stokes parameters. Interference from multiple reflections, diffractions and transmissions of the light propagating from and through the linear gratings modulates the absorption of the \u00b11-diffracted orders at each quantum well stack. The quantum wells, and thus the quantum well stacks, do not absorb light having an electric field polarized component in a plane parallel to the quantum well stacks. The non-absorbed propagating light is reflected, diffracted and transmitted at each grating as a function of its polarization. Interference translates the incident polarization into the amount of polarized light having a magnetic field lying entirely in the x-y plane, diffracted into the \u00b11 orders at each grating. The aforementioned \u00b11 orders are absorbed by the quantum wells.","Each quantum well stack is included in separate circuit having a voltage bias and a current meter. The voltage bias across each circuit is individually adjusted, and the photocurrent in each circuit, as measured by the respective current meter, is proportional to the flux of light absorbed by the respective quantum well stack. The four photocurrents are thus a measure of the polarization of the incident light ultimately absorbed by each of the four quantum well stacks. More particularly, the four currents are linearly mapped to the four Stokes parameters, which, in turn, represent the polarization of the incident light.","Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing, illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.","To explain the principle underlying the polarization detection, consider quantum well photodetector  of the prior art, including single quantum well stack  with a single linear grating , and quantum well photodetector  comprising a simplified embodiment of the present invention with just two quantum well stacks ,  and two linear gratings , .","As shown in , photodetector  detects the presence or absence of the 90\u00b0 polarized (y-axis) component of incident light. Linear grating  has a 0\u00b0 orientation (x-axis). The incident light is traveling in the z direction to within a few degrees. The device works because of two physical principles: quantum well stack  will only absorb the component of light with the electric field polarized perpendicular to the plane of the quantum wells, and normally-incident light initially polarized with an electric field parallel to gratings  will always be scattered into light whose electric field is also polarized parallel to the gratings.","Photo detector  will absorb the 90\u00b0 polarized component of the incident light, and will not absorb its 0\u00b0 polarized component. The measured photocurrent is proportional to the amount of light absorbed. 90\u00b0 polarized incident light  impinges photo detector  detector from below. The dotted arrow represents the polarization of the electric field. Because the electric field of light  is parallel to the quantum well plane, the quantum well stack  will not absorb light  or  as it first passes through quantum well stack .","As shown in , after hitting grating , some of light  will be scattered into light . Light  has an electric field component perpendicular to the quantum well plane, i.e., parallel to the z-axis, and the perpendicular component is absorbed by the quantum well stack , generating a photocurrent.","In contrast, as shown in , incident light  is initially polarized with the electric field parallel to gratings , i.e., parallel to the x-axis. Again, the electric field of light  is parallel to the quantum well plane and is not absorbed by quantum well stack  as it first passes there through. Light  will scatter from grating  into light , whose electric field remains parallel to grating . Because light  is polarized with the electric field parallel to the quantum well plane, light  is not absorbed by quantum well stack  even after being diffracted. Because light  is not absorbed by quantum well stack , no photocurrent will be generated.","In this manner, the photocurrent across quantum well stack  provides a measure of the 90\u00b0 polarized component of the incident light. However, many polarizations of light have 50 percent of the incident light in a 90\u00b0 polarized component. For example, 45\u00b0 linearly polarized, 135\u00b0 linearly polarized, right circularly polarized, left-circular polarized, and unpolarized light each has exactly 50 percent of the light in a 90\u00b0 polarized component. Quantum well photo detectors of the prior art comprised of a single quantum well and a single grating cannot distinguish between any of these cases.","Quantum well photodetector , shown in , is a simplified embodiment of the present invention with only two gratings ,  and two quantum well stacks  and . Grating  is rotated 45\u00b0 about the z-axis relative to grating . Just as in the first example, first grating  enables one to measure the presence or absence of the 90\u00b0 polarized component of the incident light; However, the addition of second grating  creates interference that will allow the photocurrent across quantum well stack  to distinguish between 45\u00b0 and 135\u00b0 polarization.","To predict the total polarization from the total fraction of the light absorbed by each of the four quantum well stacks of the present invention, one would need to follow and interfere four different incident polarizations of incident light through the multiple diffractions at each of the four layers of the device resulting in thousands of beams of light. For the purpose of understanding the principle of operation, consider only interference of two paths of light towards absorption by quantum well stack . The two paths will be tracked for both 45\u00b0 polarized and 135\u00b0 polarized incident light. The result will show that interference between the two paths is different for 45-degree polarized light than for 135-degree polarized light, resulting in a change in photocurrent across well stack  that provides a means to distinguish between the two polarizations. With the foregoing understanding, one reasonably skilled in the art of electromagnetic simulation would be able to use a computer simulation to track these thousands of diffractions for the purpose of designing a device to measure the polarization at a predetermined wavelength.","First, in reference to , consider 45\u00b0 polarized incident light  and  with an initial phase of 180\u00b0. Since light  and  are normally incident and are polarized in the x-y plane, quantum well stack  cannot absorb either. Interference exists between two possible paths that light  and  may take, respectively. The interference is found by following light  and light , which are in principle the same photon, through their two different paths. The phase shifts during reflection, diffraction, transmission and reflection are calculated by a computer code based on principles of physics well known to those reasonably skilled in the art.","The first path consists of a diffraction of light  from grating  into light . After diffraction, the component of light  polarized in the y-z plane has a phase of 105\u00b0.","The second path consists of the transmission of light  through grating  to form light . Transmission through grating  causes the light to become somewhat elliptically polarized with a major axis along the 45\u00b0 orientation. The component of the light polarized in the y-z plane has a phase of \u221290\u00b0. The propagation of light  from grating  to grating  advances the phase by 400 degrees. At grating , light  reflects into light  with a phase of 415\u00b0. The magnitude and the phase shift in the light after reflection from a linear grating is highly dependent on the polarization of the light with respect to the grating.","Light  advances another 400\u00b0 in phase while propagating back towards grating . Near grating , the component of light  polarized in the y-z component has a phase of 815\u00b0. After light  forward diffracts from grating , light  becomes light  with a phase of 915\u00b0, which is equivalent to 105\u00b0+90\u00b0.","Since the component of light  and  polarized in the y-z plane has a component parallel to the z-axis, quantum well stack  will absorb the light and generate a photocurrent. The absorption by quantum well stack  is proportional to the vector sum of light  and . The two paths have a phase difference of 90\u00b0, and therefore the two paths do not interfere constructively or destructively. This leads to a measurable amount of photocurrent across quantum well stack .","Referring to , next consider 135\u00b0 polarized incident light  and  with an initial phase of 180\u00b0. Since light  and  are normally incident and polarized in the x-y plane, quantum well stack  cannot absorb the light. Again, interference exists between two possible paths that the photon may take. The interference is found by following light  and light , which are in principle the same photon, through two different paths.","The first path consists of a diffraction of light  from grating  to form light . The component of light  polarized in the y-z plane will have a phase of 105\u00b0.","The second path consists of the transmission of light  through grating  to form light . After transmission through grating , light  is slightly elliptically polarized with a major axis along the 135\u00b0 orientation. The component of the light polarized in the y-z plane has a phase of \u221290\u00b0. The propagation of light  across from grating  to grating  advances the phase by 400\u00b0.","At grating , light  reflects to become light  with a phase of 505\u00b0. This is the step that differentiates between incident light polarized along 45\u00b0 and 135\u00b0 axes. Light  advances another 400\u00b0 in phase while propagating back towards grating . Near grating , the component of light  polarized in the y-z component has a phase of 905\u00b0. Light  forward diffracts from grating  to form light  having a phase of 1005\u00b0, which is equivalent to 105\u00b0+180\u00b0.","The absorption by quantum well stack  is proportional to the vector sum of light  and . The two paths have a phase difference of 180\u00b0, and therefore the two paths interfere destructively. This leads to a negligible amount of photocurrent across quantum well stack . Therefore, the photocurrent across quantum well stack  changes for 45\u00b0 polarized incident light compared to 135\u00b0 polarized incident light.","The Present Invention","Polarimeter , an embodiment of the quantum well polarimeter of the present invention, is shown in the schematic drawing of FIG. . Polarimeter  comprises a single pixel. A polarimetric imaging device would most likely include a number of polarimeters . Polarimeter  includes quantum well stacks , ,  and ; linear gratings , ,  and ; and transparent substrate .","Grating  forms the top of polarimeter . Quantum well stack  is sandwiched in between gratings  and . Quantum well stack  is sandwiched in between gratings  and . Quantum well stack  is sandwiched in between gratings  and . Finally, quantum well stack  is sandwiched in between grating  and substrate . The linear gratings have differing orientations, defined by their rotation relative to grating  about the z-axis: grating  is at 0\u00b0, grating  is at 45\u00b0, grating  is at 90\u00b0, and grating  is at 135\u00b0. Infrared light is incident upon substrate .","N-doped semiconductor material (not shown for the sake of clarity) is inserted both above and below each of the quantum well stacks, i.e., in between each of the quantum well stacks and the adjacent gratings, except for quantum well stack , where the n-doped material is inserted in between the top of quantum well stack  and grating , and in between the bottom of quantum well stack  and substrate . The n-doped semiconductor material ensures ohmic contact to circuits , ,  and .","Electrical circuit  includes current meter  and voltage source ; and electrically connects gratings  and . Electrical circuit  includes current meter  and voltage source ; and electrically connects gratings  and . Electrical circuit  includes current meter  and voltage source ; and electrically connects gratings  and . Electrical circuit  includes current meter  and voltage source ; and electrically connects gratings  and substrate .","The quantum wells, and thus the quantum well stacks, do not absorb light propagating in the z direction. The non-absorbed z-propagating light is reflected, diffracted and transmitted at each grating as a function of its polarization.","Linear gratings also have polarization-dependent physics. Grating efficiency is different for fast polarization (no magnetic field parallel to the grating's grooves) and slow polarization (no electric field parallel to the grating's grooves). For example, consider light with a 2.5 \u03bcm wavelength normally incident on a perfectly conducting grating with a 3 \u03bcm period, 1.5 \u03bcm grooves, and 0.75 \u03bcm depth: the fast polarization will be 14% reflected into the 0order, and 43% diffracted into the \u00b11 orders, and the slow-polarization will be 30% reflected into 0order and 35% diffracted into the \u00b11 orders. Unlike an isotropic dielectric material, linear gratings have polarization dependent reflection and transmission coefficients even at normal incidence. In addition, polarized light incident on a linear grating will have a relative phase shift between the diffracted fast and slow polarization components.","Interference among the multiple diffractions, refections and transmissions of light in polarimeter  translates the incident polarization into the amount of polarized light having a magnetic field lying entirely in the x-y plane, diffracted into the \u00b11 orders at each grating. Only the aforementioned \u00b11 orders are absorbed by the quantum wells.","The voltage bias across each circuit is individually adjusted, and the photocurrent in each circuit, as measured by the respective current meter, is proportional to the flux of light absorbed by the respective quantum well stack. The four photocurrents are thus a measure of the polarization of the incident light absorbed by each of the four quantum well stacks, respectively. The four photocurrents are linearly mapped to the four Stokes parameters, S, S, S, and S, which are defined as before:\n\n,\n\n,\n\n, and\n\n\n","where Iis the measured intensity of the light after passing through a linear filter at an orientation of X degrees, and","Iand Iare the measured intensities of the right or left circularly polarized fraction of the light.","The matrix that maps the four components of the incident light's Stokes vector Sin to the four photocurrents, R, R, R, and Rmeasured by current meters , ,  and , respectively, is the polarization response matrix (\u201cPRM\u201d) for polarimeter : \n\n","where the index j runs from 1 to the number of readouts N. For full polarimetric detection N>=4 is required. In matrix notation, the above equation is R=PRM*S.","To solve for the Stokes vector from the photocurrects, the PRM matrix must be inverted and left multiplied on each side of the above equation.","The degree of polarization, referred to as \u201cDOP,\u201d of the light incident upon transparent substrate  of polarimeter  is again given by:\n\n\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0053"},"figref":"FIG. 4","b":["63","65","67","69"]}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A and 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
