---
title: Lentiviral vectors derived from SIVsmm/PBj14, method for their production and uses thereof
abstract: The invention relates to retroviral vectors (known as lentiviral vectors), which are used to transfer genes into cells that are at cell cycle stage G0, to methods for their production and to the use thereof for transferring genes into mammalian cells. Said vectors are derived from SIVsmmPBj14 (simian immunodeficiency virus) of the sooty mangabey monkey, strain PBj 14.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07727522&OS=07727522&RS=07727522
owner: 
number: 07727522
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20030403
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"p":["The present invention relates to retroviral vectors (or \u201clentiviral vectors\u201d) comprising transferable cellular genetic material in a Gstage of the cell replication cycle, methods for the production of such vectors, and use of the vectors for gene transfer in mammalian cells. The vectors are derived from a SIVsmmPBj14 virus (i.e. \u201cSimians Immunodeficiency Virus\u201d obtainable from the \u201cSooty Mangabey monkey\u201d, strain Pbj14).","The expression \u201clentiviral vectors\u201d or \u201cSIVsmmPBj vectors\u201d refers to an infectious retrovirus that is incapable of reproduction, which can insert a gene in the form of a retroviral expression vector (i.e. an expression construct or packageable construct) into a cell. The term \u201clentivirus\u201d refers to a sub-group of Retroviridae, which after a substantial incubation time, leads to an infection in humans, other primates and mammals (e.g. sheep, cats). A general overview about retroviruses and lentiviral vectors can be found, for example, in Miller A. D., (1997) \u201c\u201d, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press: Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.; Vigna E. and Naldini L., (2000), 2:308; and Palu G., et al. (2000) 20:185. The transfer of genes using retroviral vectors or lentiviral vectors is also referred to as transduction. Gene transfer typically leads to the integration of an expression vector into a cellular genome. Expression vectors generally comprise a packaging signal known as \u201cpsi\u201d, which leads to the incorporation of the expression vector RNA into vector particles and subsequently to gene transfer. The term \u201cpsi\u201d is used to describe the packaging signal of the retrovirus, which controls the efficient packaging of the messenger RNA of the expression vector. The expression vector must be flanked by the lentiviral LTR (\u201clong terminal repeat\u201d) sequences for accurate transcription of the expression vector RNA to DNA sequences, and for the subsequent integration of the expression vector genes into the chromosomal DNA of a cell. The presently described retroviral gene transfer is advantageous, because (i) a copy of the desired gene can be successfully transferred into cells; (ii) the gene is generally transferred without mutations or rearrangement; and (iii) use of the vectors leads to stable chromosomal integration.","The tropism of the lentiviral vectors, i.e. the selection of the mammalian cells in which these expression constructs can be transferred, is determined by the env gene of the selected packaging cell, and thus by the env gene products from the vector particles. The env gene of different types of retroviruses, for example, the murine leukemia virus (MLV), and other types of lentiviruses including the HIV virus (\u201cHuman Immunodeficiency Virus\u201d), SIV \u201cSimian Immunodeficiency Virus\u201d) or FIV (\u201cFeline Immunodeficiency Virus\u201d), in addition to the EIAV (\u201cEquine Infectious Anemia Virus\u201d) or CIAV (\u201cCaprine Infectious Anemia Virus\u201d) viruses, which are used for the formation of the lentiviral vector particles, is translated into envelope proteins, a transmembrane protein (TM), and a surface envelope protein (SU), which form the outside envelope of the lentiviral vector. The SU protein interacts and binds to a specific protein (receptor) on the surface of the host cell. The env gene product of the amphotropic MLV, the GaLV (\u201cGibbon ape Leukemia Virus\u201d) and the G-protein of the VSV (\u201cVesicular Stomatitis Virus; see Burns et al., (1993) 90: 8033) have all been used in the above-described paradigm. Amphotropic MLVs are capable of replicating in both murine and nonmurine cells. These MLV viruses allow gene transfer into a wide variety of different kinds of mammalian cells, including human cells. With respect to the selective gene transfer into human cells having a particular cell type, e.g. T-cells or hematopoietic stem cells, the env gene products derived from both ecotropic or amphotropic MLV, or the spleen necrosis virus (SNV; \u201cspleen necrosis virus\u201d) are suitable for such gene transfer, when they are modified via the assembly of single chain antibody domains (scFv; \u201csingle chain Fv\u201d) or other ligands for cell surface proteins, e.g. cytokines or growth factors.","Whereas C-type retroviral (i.e. viruses having a core particle that exhibits a spherical icosahedral form)-derived vectors of foreign genes can be transferred only into mitotically active cells, lentiviral vectors can be transduced into both actively and nonactively proliferating cells. This has the advantage that liver cells, various brain cell types, T-cells and others can be transduced in vivo even if these cells are not presently undergoing proliferation or receiving any kind of mitotic stimulation. However, all known lentiviral-derived vectors are suitable for use in non-proliferating cells having a certain kind of activation status, namely, in the G-phase of the cell cycle. The G-phase (G; \u201cGap\u201d) refers to the part of the mitotic cell cycle preceding the DNA synthesis phase (\u201cS-phase\u201d). In the G-phase, a cell is prepared for the replication process by producing certain proteins and enzymes (e.g. cyclin). Those cells which are in a non-replicating phase, or resting phase, are in the G-phase. These cells no longer participate in tissue growth or in the replacement of dead cells. Cells in the G-phase, including many types of stem cells that can be utilized as target cells in various gene therapy strategies, have not yet been successfully transduced with retroviral or lentiviral vectors.","In contrast to all other lentiviruses, SIVsmmPBj14, an immunodeficiency virus derived from the Sooty Mangabey monkey (see Fultz P. N., et al. 5:397), is capable of replicating in non-stimulated primary human lymphocytes in the G-phase. However, this property correlates with a high pathogenicity; the SIVsmmPBj14 lentivirus typically causes an acute illness, often leading to death after 7-10 days following interspecies transmission into another primate species, i.e. the Pigtail Macaque. Although several variations of the SIVsmmPBj14 sequence compared to its nonpathogenic parent SIvsmm9 cell line have been observed (e.g., in the LTR or \u201clong terminal repeats\u201d of the env- and nef-genes), the viral factors that determine these specific characteristics have not yet been clearly identified.","It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide retroviral vectors that can transduce cells in the G-phase and methods related thereto. This problem is solved according to the present invention by the subject matter of the patent claims.","The present invention discloses a SIVsmmPBj14 virus that can infect resting lymphocytes in the G-phase, and which can also be transferred to non-replicable vectors derived from SIVsmmPBj14. Furthermore, the disclosure shows that these features do not depend on the env gene of SIVsmmPBj14; therefore this gene is not required to be present in the vector system. This opens the possibility of transferring genes into cells which are in the G-phase of the cell cycle. Such a transfer of genes into cells is referred to as transduction.","The invention also relates to a retroviral vector, which is able to transduce cells in the G-phase, whereby the vector is derived from SIVsmmPBj14. Preferably, the retroviral vector is capable of transducing cells in the mitotic and\/or G-phase of the cell cycle. The retroviral vector according to invention preferably has a deletion in a part of or the entire env gene of SIVsmmPBj14, whereby in a particularly preferred embodiment, the env surface envelope protein is no longer functional. The term \u201cdeletion\u201d means a loss of genetic material. Deletion of a part of the env gene indicates a loss of any part of the env gene, whereby the loss can occur in any location within the gene, for example, at a gene terminus, within the gene sequence, and in gene fragments of different sizes. In one embodiment, a preferred deletion is within the SU range of the env gene. The SU range encompasses a section of the env gene that codes for the surface envelope protein (i.e. SU protein). In a particularly preferred embodiment, the vector according to invention is a pseudotype vector and preferably comprises a part of or the entire envelope protein of a virus other than the SIVsmmPBj14 virus, specifically, a retrovirus. In particular embodiments, the retrovirus can be selected from the following group: HIV-1 (\u201cHuman Immunodeficiency Virus-1\u201d), SIVagm (\u201cSimians Immunodeficiency Virus\u201d), SNV (\u201cSpleen Necrosis Virus\u201d), MLV (\u201cMurine Leukemia Virus\u201d) or VSV (\u201cVesicular Stomatitis Virus\u201d). In a particularly preferred embodiment, the envelope protein (of a virus other than the SIVsmmPBj14 virus) is the G-protein of VSV.","Furthermore, the invention relates to a method for producing pseudotype vectors, comprising the steps: a) deleting a part of or the entire env gene of SIVsmmPBj14 or a molecular clone derived therefrom, including SIVsmmPBj1.9; and b) cotransfection of cells with the construct obtained in a) and an expression construct for an envelope protein of a virus other than the SIVsmmPBj14 virus. Preferably, the deletion is within the SU range of the env gene, and the deletion renders the env cell surface envelope protein nonfunctional. In one embodiment, the cotransfected cells are 293T cells, i.e. human fibroblasts. In other embodiments, the selected virus, other than the SIVsmmPBj14 virus, is a retrovirus. In particular embodiments, the virus other than the SIVsmmPBj14 virus is selected from the group consisting of HIV1, SIVagm, SNV, MLV or VSV. In a particularly preferred embodiment, the envelope protein from a virus, other than the SIVsmmPBj14 virus, is the G-protein of VSV.","Moreover, the invention relates to pseudotype vectors obtainable by the methods according to the present invention.","The invention also relates to the use of a vector according to the invention for transducing cells in the G-phase, in particular, for the purposes of gene therapy. The cells can be activated or nonactivated. The cells that are capable of being transduced are preferably mammalian cells, in particular, human cells. In one embodiment, the cells that are capable of being transduced are human lymphocytes.","The term \u201cretroviral vector\u201d used herein means a replication deficient retroviral virus particle, which can transfer a foreign imported RNA of a gene or a fragment thereof or a reporter gene, e.g. a therapeutic gene, instead of the retroviral mRNA. The term \u201ctherapeutic gene\u201d used herein refers to a nucleic acid sequence, which is introduced into a target cell by a retroviral vector and comprises entire genes and fragments thereof, antisense nucleic acids and related sequences.","The term \u201cpseudotype\u201d and\/or \u201cpseudotype vector\u201d as used herein, means that the retroviral vector comprises a virus core of a retrovirus and the virus envelope originating from a different retrovirus.","The term \u201cSIV\u201d as used herein refers to viruses that are derived from the Simian Immunodeficiency Virus family. According to FIELDS Virology, the following viruses are representative of this group: (SIVagm), (SIVmac), (SIVcpz), (SIVsyk), (SIVmnd), (SIVsm) or (SIVmne).","SIVsmmPBj14 refers to an acutely lethal virus, which is derived from the nonpathogenic strain SIVsmm9, following an infection from a primate.","The env gene of the infectious molecular clone SIVsmmPBj1.9 (see Dewhurst S. et al., (1990), 345:636), which is derived from the SIVsmmPBj14 virus was inactivated via a deletion. SIVsmmPBj1.9 was then digested with BstZ17I, which cuts at the positions 6461 and 7577, both positions being located within the SU range of the env gene. After removing the 1116 bp fragment and after relegation, the pPBj\u0394env construct was obtained (). This construct codes for the entire SIVsmmPBj 1.9 gene, wherein the env SU is no longer functional in view of the 1116 bp deletion. No other genes (e.g. TAT, nef, etc.), or well-known splice sites or the Rev Responsive Element (RRE) were affected by this deletion.","Thereafter, pseudotype vectors were obtained via cotransfection of 293T cells with pPBj\u0394env and an envelope protein expression construct. Different types of retroviral envelope proteins were used, for example, envelope proteins derived from the SIVsmmPBj 1.9 virus, in addition to HIV-1, SIVagm, SNV, amphotropic and ecotropic MLV as well as the G-protein of VSV (Vesicular Stomatitis Virus), a Rhabdovirus (see -, Ory D. S., et al,. (1996) 93:11400). Using all envelope proteins, it was possible to obtain pseudotype vectors that could transduce mitotic cells with different levels of efficiency. These vectors of the first generation could transfer only the PBj\u0394env gene, but no foreign genes. To determine the transfection efficiency, the expression of the PBj\u0394env genes in the target cells was measured; the transduced cultures were stained with a HIV-2-serum, whereby the serum cross-reacted with different SIVsmm proteins according to a standard immunoperoxidase assay (i.e. \u201cIPA\u201d). Positive reactions (staining) showed the expression of the transferred PBj\u0394env genes. The most efficient expression observed was provided by the VSV-G pseudotype vector [SIVsmmPBj(VSV-G)], such vector was predominantly used in subsequent experiments. The VSV-G pseudotype vector reached titers at about 1-3\u00d710i.u.\/ml (i.e. infectious units per ml; measurements based on dividing target cells), said titers could be substantially increased via ultracentrifugation.","In order to determine the ability of [SIVsmmPBj(VSV-G)]pseudovectors to transduce cells in different phases of the cell cycle, cells in a human cell line were arrested in the desired phase according to standard methods. The following parameters were examined: i) nonarrested (i.e. dividing) cells; ii) G-arrested cells treated with aphidicoline; and iii) G-arrested cells treated with a combination of serum withdrawal and ethanol. The correct arresting status was determined by directly measuring the DNA content via propidium iodide staining and FACS analysis, and indirectly measured via the transduction efficiency of the C-type retroviral vectors and conventional lentiviral vectors. The cell line \u201cGHOST CXCR4\u201d, a human osteosarcoma cell line (see Owen SM et al., 72:5425), was stably transfected with CD4- and CXCR4-receptors in addition to a TAT-dependent GFP-expression vector. The cell line (GHOST) was selected, since the cells are easy to arrest and the gene transfer can be readily determined by GFP induction via the transferred SIVsmmPBj-TAT-gene. Thus, the serological detection of SIVsmmPBj gene products by IPA can be confirmed using an independent method.","For a comparison with conventional vectors, C-type-retroviral and lentiviral vectors were produced, and pseudotyped with the same envelope protein (VSV-G) via transient transfection of 293T-cells: [MLV(VSV-G)] and [HIV-1(VSV-G)]. The conventional vector used, as derived from the murine leukemia virus [MLV(VSV-G)], transfers the X-Gal gene, thus the gene transfer could be determined via the expression of this marker gene. [HIV-1(VSV-G)]-vectors were generated in a manner similar to SIV [SIVsmmPBj(VSV-G)] (as described above) with the HIV clone having a deleted env gene, so that the gene transfer could be likewise be measured according to IPA and TAT-induced GFP-expression.","Cells in various states of cell-growth arrest were transduced using the three presently disclosed vector types followed by a determination of the gene transfer efficiency (i.e. measuring the population of target cells expressing the transferred gene).","The results of the foregoing experiment were as follows: 1) MLV-derived retroviral vectors could transduce only those cells undergoing replication; 2) HIV-derived lentiviral vectors could transduce both replicating and G-arrested cells; 3) SIVsmmPBj-derived lentiviral vectors could transduce replicating cells, in addition to both G- and G-arrested cells. These experimental outcomes are presented in Table 1 and .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","pgwide":"1"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"266pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Comparison of the transduction efficiency"},{"entry":"for different vectors in growth arrested cells"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":[{},"Analysis","Transduction Titer [i.u.\/ml]"]}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Vector","Method","Proliferation","GARREST","GARREST"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"5","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"6"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"49pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"35pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"4","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"5","colwidth":"49pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"6","colwidth":"42pt","align":"center"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Experiment #1:","[SIV(VSV)]","IPAP","8.00E+05","1.40E+05","6.40E+05"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2033","GFP","2.10E+05","2.40E+05","1.00E+05"]},{"entry":[{},"[HIV-1(VSV)]","IPAP","1.80E+05","9.90E+04","6.80E+03"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2033","GFP","2.80E+05","1.30E+05","7.10E+03"]},{"entry":[{},"[MLV(VSV)]","X-Gal","9.90E+03","0","3.75E+01"]},{"entry":["Experiment #2:","[SIV(VSV)]","IPAP","9.30E+05","5.50E+05","7.20E+05"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2033","GFP","3.95E+05","3.40E+05","1.90E+05"]},{"entry":[{},"[HIV-1(VSV)]","IPAP","3.10E+05","7.20E+04","2.00E+04"]},{"entry":[{},"\u2033","GFP","3.00E+05","2.20E+05","4.90E+03"]},{"entry":[{},"[MLV(VSV)]","X-Gal","9.00E+03","5.00E+00","2.00E+02"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"6","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 1B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}],"heading":["EXAMPLES","Example 1","Construction of a Lentiviral Pseudotype Vector of the First Generation","Example 2","Ability of [SIVsmmPBj(VSV-G)]Pseudotype Vectors of the First Generation to Transduce G-Arrested Cells"]}
