---
title: Apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization/denitrification
abstract: It is an high efficiency and low cost apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration (), capable of simultaneous oxidation of nitrogen monoxide and sulfur dioxide by chain reaction with OH radical, provided with an OH radical supplying unit (), a reactor (), a sulfuric acid recovering unit (), and a nitric acid recovering unit (). Exhaust gas at 600-800° C. containing sulfur compounds from a boiler () is introduced into the reactor (), nitric acid is spray-supplied from an OH radical supplying unit () into the reactor (), sulfur dioxide and nitrogen monoxide are simultaneously oxidized with OH radicals generated from pyrolysis of nitric acid as an initiator to form sulfur trioxide and nitrogen dioxide, thereby exhaust gas is treated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07455819&OS=07455819&RS=07455819
owner: Japan Science and Technology Agency
number: 07455819
owner_city: Kawaguchi-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20031226
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION","BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION","INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY"],"p":["The present invention relates to the apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration to induce chain reaction using OH radicals, thereby to simultaneously oxidize nitrogen monoxide and sulfur dioxide, which is utilized for removal of such atmospheric contaminants as nitrogen and sulfur compounds contained in exhaust gas.","Fossil fuels such as coal contains sulfur compounds as impurities, and most of sulfur content is exhausted as sulfur dioxide upon combustion under excess of oxygen. Sulfur dioxide contained in exhaust gas is generally removed by wet process using a scrubber to contact exhaust gas with the mist of absorbent and absorb and remove sulfur dioxide (Refer, for example, to the Japanese laid open Patent Application (JP H10-202049-A)).","A dry exhaust gas treating method is also known which oxidizes sulfur dioxide gas by passing sulfur dioxide in exhaust gas through pulsed corona discharge region, and removes it by adsorbing on fine powder of calcium oxide or others as an adsorbent (Refer, for example, to the Japanese laid open Patent Application (JP H05-228330-A)). Further, the art to convert sulfur dioxide gas to sulfur trioxide gas with vanadium pentoxide (VO) as an oxidizing catalyst was disclosed in the Japanese laid open Patent Application (JP 2001-11041-A).","However, by the exhaust gas treating method of wet process, big plant investment is required, and an apparatus itself is large-sized due to required large amount of water, and therefore, it is not easily utilized where water resource is scant. Also by the exhaust gas treating method of dry process, high cost is required due to the use of additives and oxidative catalysts.","The object of the present invention is to solve such problems, and to offer an apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration of high efficiency and low cost, capable of treating exhaust gas by dry process without catalysts or others, and of simultaneous oxidation of nitrogen monoxide and sulfur dioxide by chain reaction using OH radicals.","In order to achieve the above-mentioned object, an apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration of the present invention is characterized in that, in a dry exhaust gas treating apparatus to treat exhaust gas of high temperature, it is comprised of a reactor and an OH radical supplier, and treats exhaust gas by supplying either OH radicals or OH radical initiators to the reactor into which exhaust gas is introduced, and by oxidizing either sulfur or nitrogen compounds in exhaust gas, or both of them simultaneously.","In addition to the above-mentioned makeup, the reactor may be provided with an inner and an outer tubes coaxially spaced, and a radical supplying inlet to supply either OH radicals or OH radical initiators to an inner tube. In the inner tube, there may be radical supplying inlets provided in plurality at the pre-designed interval, capable of multi-step blow-in. The reactor is preferably provided with injectors to supply OH radicals and OH radical initiators. It is advantageous if said injectors are provided in plurality with different lengths capable of multi-step blow-in. The reactor may also be provided with either a shower pipe or a spray nozzle, or both, to supply either OH radicals or OH radical initiators. Said reactor may be either horizontal or vertical type. The OH radical supplier may preferably have a radical generation source and a gas supplying system. The OH radical initiator is preferably nitric acid. OH radicals are generated by pyrolysis of nitric acid.","According to said aspect, the sulfur compound in exhaust gas is sulfur dioxide, the nitrogen compound is nitrogen monoxide, and sulfur dioxide and nitrogen monoxide can be simultaneously oxidized with either OH radicals or OH radicals generated from OH radical initiators as the initiator. In this case, the oxides generated from simultaneous oxidation are sulfur trioxide and nitrogen dioxide.","The apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration of such aspect induces chain reaction with supplied OH radicals as the initiator, simultaneously oxidizes sulfur dioxide and nitrogen monoxide to sulfur trioxide and nitrogen dioxide, and exhausts them. Therefore, the apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration of the present invention is capable of exhaust gas treating in dry process without using catalysts and others at high efficiency and low cost.","Further, the apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration of the above-mentioned aspect is preferably provided with a sulfuric acid recovery apparatus to recover sulfur trioxide formed by oxidation process of exhaust gas as either sulfuric acid or gypsum, or both. Also, the above-mentioned apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration is preferably provided with a nitric acid recovery apparatus to recover nitrogen dioxide formed by oxidation process of exhaust gas as nitric acid. It may also be provided with a nitric acid recovery apparatus to recover OH radical suppliers as nitric acid. The recovered nitric acid may be reused by recycling as OH radical suppliers.","Since the apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration of such aspect recovers sulfuric acid from sulfur trioxide formed by oxidative treating of exhaust gas, sulfuric acid or gypsum can be recovered efficiently. Nitrogen dioxide formed by oxidative treating of exhaust gas can also be recovered as nitric acid, and further, in case that nitric acid is supplied as an OH radical supplier, nitric acid can be recovered and recycled, thereby reused as an OH radical supplier.","Hereinafter, the suitable embodiments in accordance with the present invention will be described in detail with reference to , using the same symbol for practically identical or corresponding parts.","First, the dry process of simultaneous desulfurization and denitration is explained as the principle of an apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration of the present invention. As the result of the present inventors' research on the desulfurization and denitration method capable of easily oxidizing SOand NO without catalyst, efficient chemical reactions were discovered for the first time by various studies and calculations to oxidize sulfur dioxide (SO) and nitrogen monoxide (NO) contained in exhaust gas from various combustion ovens by gas phase chain reaction to sulfur trioxide (SO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO), using OH or OH radicals (Mitsuo Koshi, et al, \u201cChemical Kinetics of Homogeneous Oxidation of SOin Flue Gases\u201d, CREST International Symposium on ADVANCED DESOx PROCESS, Japan Science and Technology Corporation, Dec. 6, 2002, pp. 169-180).","The oxidation of SOand NO in exhaust gas from various combustion ovens, that is, the desulfurization and denitration method used for the present invention is so made up that chain reactions proceed as the chemical equations shown below.\n\nOH+SO+M=HOSO+M \u2003\u2003(R1),\n\nHOSO+O=HO+SO\u2003\u2003(R2),\n\nHO+NO=OH+NO\u2003\u2003(R3), and\n\nHNO+M=OH+NO+M \u2003\u2003(R4).\n","SOand NO in exhaust gas are at left-hand sides of the chemical reaction equations (R1) and (R3). Here, Ois oxygen gas contained in exhaust gas. M is the gas not involved in reactions, for example, N, and COand Hor the like added together with N.","The above-mentioned chemical reaction are explained here. As shown in chemical reaction equation (R4), OH is formed from HNO. OH is the high temperature radical state in exhaust gas. If OH is supplied to chemical reaction in equation (R1), OH, SO, and M react to form HOSO+M.","HOSOformed here reacts with Oin exhaust gas to form HOand SO(Refer to chemical reaction equation (R2)). In this case, since Oconcentration in exhaust gas is much higher than any other radical species, the reaction rate of (R2) is higher than the reactions of other HOSOwith radical species, like OH+HOSO, O+HOSO, or H+HOSO.","Next, HOformed by chemical reaction equation (R2) reacts with NO to form HO and NO(Refer to chemical reaction equation (R3)). Thus, with added OH, chain reactions are established.","From these, the sum up of chemical reaction equations (R1)-(R3) becomes to be,\n\nSO+NO+O=SO+NO. \u2003\u2003(R5)\n\nIt is thus seen that SO, NO, and Oin exhaust gas react and they are oxidized to SOand NO.\n","Thereby, SOand NO in exhaust gas containing Ocan be oxidized, as shown in chemical reaction equation (R4), to SOand NOby chain reaction with OH or OH radicals formed from HNOpyrolysis. Consequently, since the vapor pressure and pyrolysis rate of HNOare higher than those of HO, and its handling is also easier than HO, SOand NO in exhaust gas containing Ocan be oxidized with low cost.","The simulation result of SOand NO oxidation by the above-mentioned chemical reaction equations is explained next. Said simulation was conducted by calculating the above-mentioned chemical reaction equations (R1)-(R4) by reaction mechanism of SOproposed by Mueller et al, and by adding some more elementary reactions involving HNOand NO(Refer to M. A. Mueller, R. A. Yetter, and F. L. Dryer, Int. J. Chem. Kinet., 32, 317 (2000)).","First, the dependency of added NO quantity upon HNOaddition to SOin exhaust gas is explained.  is a graph showing the calculation result of temperature dependency of SOgeneration concentration on the added amount of NO with HNOkept constant. In the figure, the abscissa is temperature (K), and the ordinate is SOconcentration (ppm).","The calculation condition here is the hypothesis that the reaction proceeds in adiabatic state, and that the reaction time is one second. In this case, SOconcentration in exhaust gas is 2000 ppm, and HNOconcentration is 1000 ppm. M consists of N, CO, and HO, and the total pressure including Oin exhaust gas is 1 atm, since those of SOand HNOare negligible because their concentrations are trivial, and their ratio (%) is\n\nN:CO:HO:O=71:16:8:5.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 2","br":[{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{}],"sub":["3","2","3 ","3","2","2 "]},"In , it is seen that the reaction from SOto SOproceeds at NO=0 ppm, but its rate remarkably increases by NO addition. In case that NO concentration is 50 ppm, the conversion from SOto SO(hereinafter called as SOconversion) is maximum around T=750 K, that is, about 4%. In case of NO concentration 200 ppm, SOconversion is maximum between T=750-770K, that is, about 6.3%. Further in case that NO concentration is increased to 400 ppm, SOconversion is lowered than at 200 ppm, and it gradually increases from 1.5% to 4.3% at T=700-820K. It is seen from these observations that SOconversion is improved by NO addition together with SOinto exhaust gas, and that optimum NO concentration exists for it.","In , the reason for maximum conversion to SOat around 750K except for 400 ppm of HNOconcentration is explained.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 3","sub":["3 ","2","4 ","2 ","2 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"],"sub":["3 ","3 ","3 ","3 "]},"SOconversion dependency on HNOconcentration with addition of NO 200 ppm into exhaust gas is shown next.  is a graph showing the calculation result of SOgeneration rate dependency on HNOaddition concentration at T=750K. In the figure, its ordinate is SOconcentration, and abscissa is HNOconcentration (ppm). The condition is same as in  except that SOconcentration is 1000 ppm, and NO concentration is 200 ppm. It is seen that SOconversion is about 15, 16, and 17%, respectively, with HNOconcentration 200, 300, and 400 ppm. SOgeneration increases with the increase of HNOconcentration till HNOconcentration of about 100 ppm. In case that HNOconcentration is higher than about 200 ppm, SOconversion tends to saturate with respect to HNOconcentration. Said conversion is seen to increase remarkably in comparison with the case of no NO addition shown in . In this case, NO conversion to NO(hereinafter, to be called NOconversion) is 80 to 90%.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5","FIG. 1"],"sub":["2 ","2 ","2 ","3 ","3 ","2","2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6","FIG. 6","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"sub":["3 ","3","ij ","ij","j","i","j ","i ","3 "]},"On the other hand, chemical reaction equations (R8) and (R9) written below are competitive chain reactions taking place with chemical reaction equation (R1) of OH generated from HNOpyrolysis, and are the chemical reactions to hinder SOgeneration (Refer to (R8) and (R9) in FIG. ).\n\nNO+OH+M=HONO+M \u2003\u2003(R8)\n\nHONO+OH=HO+NO\u2003\u2003(R9).\n","Also, the chemical reaction equation (R10) written below is a chain termination reaction inducing radicals not generated, with OH generated from HNOpyrolysis reacting to form HO and O, and this reaction, too, acts in the direction of terminating SOgeneration (Refer to (R10) in FIG. ).\n\nHO+OH=HO+O\u2003\u2003(R10).\n","Next is explained for comparison HNOaddition effect under the condition only with SOwithout NO addition into exhaust gas.  is a graph showing the calculation result of the temperature dependency of SOgeneration concentration on the amount of added HNO. In the figure, its abscissa is temperature (K), and ordinate is SOconcentration (ppm). Here, the condition is same as in  except that SOconcentration in exhaust gas is 2000 ppm, and HNOconcentration is changed to 100, 500, and 1000 ppm. SOconversion increases with HNOconcentration increase, and reaches 2%, which is maximum, at about T=750K in case of 100 ppm HNOaddition. Next, SOconversion reaches 6.5%, which is maximum, at about T=760K in case of 500 ppm as HNOconcentration. Further, in case of 1000 ppm as HNOconcentration, SOconversion is seen to reach 8% as maximum at about T=750K.","Thus, SOoxidation reaction has low efficiency with HNOonly without NO addition into exhaust gas. This is assumed as because most of OH generated from HNOpyrolysis reacts with HNOand NO, thereby the chain reaction does not function (Refer to chemical reaction equations (R6) and (R7)).","As explained heretofore, the desulfurization and denitration method of SOand NO in exhaust gas used in the present invention can oxidize SOand NO in exhaust gas containing oxygen simultaneously to SOand NO, by inducing chain reaction with the addition of OH radicals at relatively low temperature of 600-800K. In this case, in order to initiate chain reaction, it is necessary to generate chemical species OH or HOas chain carriers. HNOis preferable as a radical initiator for said radical generation.","In a typical case that exhaust gas temperature is 750\u00b0 C, SOconversion increases when HNOconversion is increased. NOconversion shows the tendency to decrease when HNOconcentration is over 100 ppm, but if SOin exhaust gas is about 1000 ppm, almost 20% of SOcan be converted to SOby addition of 1000 ppm of HNO. In this case, NOconversion can be 80 to 90%, about four times as high as SOconversion.","Next, the apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration of the present invention using the desulfurization and denitration method described above is explained.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"b":["10","12","14","16","18","2","14","10"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"b":["20","22","23","2","28","24","26","21","27","23","22","23"],"sub":"2 "},"The space between the inner tube  and the outer tube  is an introducing line of OH radicals or OH radical initiators. The inner tube  is provided with radical supplying inlets  and  at four steps, but it may be at one step depending on the scale of exhaust gas treating, or may be appropriately at many steps. Here, the arrow  in  shows the flow of OH radicals or OH initiators.","Here, multi-step reaction may be designed to proceed by further separating the inner tube  with partition walls for each radical supplying inlet  and , and blowing in OH radicals or OH radical initiators at multi-steps in the direction from exhaust gas  introducing side to exhaust side. Since thereby SOand NO are treated at each step, the conversions of SOand NOcan be made almost 100%.","As is shown in , the OH radical supplier  is provided with a gas supplier  for N, O, and NO, and with an OH radical initiating source . And the gas supplier  is provided with by mass flow meters and valves not shown in the figure and is controlled by the computer to supply gases according to the pre-set flow rates and reaction processes.","Here, in order to oxidize SOin exhaust gas efficiently to SO, it is important to properly adjust NO concentration. Therefore, it is preferable to have NO controllable to 0 to about 200 ppm in said gas supplying system.","The OH radical supplier  is provided with a tank  filled with an OH radical initiator , HNOhere, a carrier gas supply line  to carry said HNO as vapor, and an OH radical initiator supply line . HNOmay be either 100% or aqueous solution of pre-designed ratio.","Here, exhaust gas is 600-800\u00b0 C., and in such temperature region, HNOas a radical initiator is pyrolyzed to generate OH radicals, but for the case that the temperature of exhaust gas is low or the like, an electric furnace  may be provided before inlet into the manifold , thereby radical initiators are surely pyrolyzed to supply OH radicals. The tank  is also preferably temperature controllable, though depending on its scale.","The function of the apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration in accordance with a suitable embodiment of the present invention is explained next. Referring to , 100% HNOis held at the pre-designed temperature, its vapor pressure is controlled based on a pressure sensor not shown here, Nis bubbled from the gas supplying system , and HNOvapor is introduced with carrier gas from the tank  through the manifold . When the exhaust gas  of 600-800\u00b0 C. is introduced, SOand NO in the exhaust gas  are simultaneously oxidized with OH radicals as an initiator generated by pyrolysis of HNO, SOand NOare formed, and exhausted from the reactor . Here, if SOconcentration in exhaust gas is, for example, 1000 ppm, HNOis also introduced at the similar concentration of 1000 ppm. Thus, in the present embodiment, simultaneous desulfurization and denitration can be realized only by supplying OH radicals or OH radical initiators into the exhaust gas of high temperature.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["30","42","41","44","46","48","44","46","48","12"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12(","FIG. 12(","FIG. 12"],"b":["49","54","55","51","52","53","54"],"i":["a","b"]},"In order to desulfurize and denitrate efficiently, it is necessary to determine the optimum length of the injector, and it has to be preferably determined depending upon the scale of the apparatus. Also, injectors may be pipes of stainless steel or quartz, but stainless steel is preferred, because of higher decrease ratio of NO and SO. In case to introduce OH radicals or an OH radical initiators with injectors, it is easy to adjust the positions of blowout holes of injectors in a reactor and the supply quantity so that efficient desulfurization and denitration are possible depending upon the scale of exhaust gas and exhaust gas treating apparatus.","The OH radical supplier  shown in  is to supply HNOvapor or HNOvapor and steam, but it may be an OH radical supplier to supply HNOdroplets. In this case, the injector is changed to spray nozzle, which introduces HNOdroplets into the reactor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 13","FIG. 14","FIG. 13","FIG. 14"],"sub":["3 ","3 ","3 ","3 "],"b":["50","42","41","62","42","58","56","56","42","50","56","56","59","58","56","56","60","57","56","59"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":"FIG. 15","b":["70","56","56"]},"When the exhaust gas of 600-800\u00b0 C. is introduced into such a reactor, OH radicals supplied from the OH radical supplier or the OH radical generated from pyrolysis of an OH radical initiator acts as an initiator of the above-mentioned chain reaction to simultaneously oxidize SOand NO in exhaust gas, and SOand NOare exhausted.","Next, a recovery apparatus of sulfuric acid and HNOis explained.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0074","num":"0073"},"figref":"FIG. 16","b":["80","82","84","86","87","88","84","82"],"sub":["3 ","3 ","3 ","3 "]},"The sprayed HNOis recovered by the above-mentioned HNOrecovery apparatus. Or, after SOis recovered by an electric dust collector, NOmay be absorbed by a scrubber to be recovered as HNO, supplied to the above-mentioned HNOrecovery apparatus and reused.","The present invention is by no way limited to the above-mentioned embodiments, but various modification is possible within the range of the invention described in Claims, and needless to say that it is also included in the present invention. For example, the reactor to blow in OH and OH radicals at multi-steps as explained in the above-mentioned embodiments may of course be properly designed, manufactured, and applied so as to be attached to various combustion apparatuses depending upon the flow rate of exhaust gas and SOand NO gas concentrations to be desulfurized and denitrated.","As is explained above, since said apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration is such that the supplied OH radicals act as initiators to induce chain reaction, simultaneously oxidize SOand NO in exhaust gas, and exhaust them as SOand NO, it can treat exhaust gas by dry method without using catalyst or others, as well as has the effect of high efficiency and low cost.","Also, the apparatus for simultaneous dry desulfurization and denitration provided with either or both of a sulfuric acid or HNOrecovery apparatuses has the effect capable of recovery of oxidized SOand NOas sulfuric acid and HNO, and further an OH radical initiator as HNO, in case that HNOis used as the OH radical initiator."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The present invention will better be understood from the following detailed description and the drawings attached hereto showing certain illustrative forms of embodiment of the present invention. In this connection, it should be noted that such forms of embodiment illustrated in the accompanying drawings hereof are intended in no way to specify or to limit the present invention but to facilitate an explanation and an understanding thereof. In the drawings,",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1","sub":["3 ","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4","sub":"3 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5","sub":["3 ","3 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 4"],"sub":"2 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 6"],"sub":"3 "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8","sub":["3 ","3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 16"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
