---
title: System and method for in-building presence system
abstract: A telecommunications system includes a plurality of network clients () including a positioning controller () and a communications controller (); and a positioning server () including a coordinating controller () for maintaining a database of network clients to be tracked and provide updates of position-related information to a presence server (). The plurality of network clients () are configured to transmit position information received via the positioning controller () to the positioning server via the communications controller (), the positioning information including information related to loss of a position signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07403786&OS=07403786&RS=07403786
owner: Siemens Communications, Inc.
number: 07403786
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20030926
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["This application is related to commonly-assigned, application Ser. No. 10\/672,456, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR WEB-BASED PRESENCE PERIMETER RULE MONITORING; application Ser. No. 10\/672,105, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PRESENCE ALARMING; application Ser. No. 10\/672,621, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SPEED-BASED PRESENCE STATE MODIFICATION; application Ser. No. 10\/672,902, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR FAILSAFE PRESENCE MONITORING; application Ser. No. 10\/672,439, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PRESENCE-BASED AREA MONITORING; application Ser. No. 10\/672,641, titled, SYSTEM AND METhOD FOR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (GPS) BASED PRESENCE; application Ser. No. 10\/672,899, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM ENHANCED PRESENCE RULES; application Ser. No. 10\/672,367, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ALTERNATIVE PRESENCE REPORTING SYSTEM; application Ser. No. 10\/672,057, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CENTRALLY-HOSTED PRESENCE REPORTING; and application Ser. No. 10\/672,364, titled, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PRESENCE PERIMETER RULE DOWNLOADING, all filed concurrently on Sep. 26, 2003.","The present invention relates to telecommunications systems and, in particular, to an improved system and method for providing and maintaining presence information.","Presence systems, such as Instant Messaging systems, provide relatively basic information to network clients concerning the presence status of related users, such as those on the network clients' buddy lists. In typical operation, a presence status of each user is determined and that information is distributed to those who are watching the corresponding user.","Even in Internet Protocol (IP) telephone networks, presence status is typically determined using relatively basic presence indications. These include, for example, detection of whether the user is logged on, detection of keyboard activity, detection of whether a desk phone is in use or in a do-not-disturb mode, detection of Instant Messaging activity, or detection of a manual presence setting. Consequently, errors or inaccuracies in presence reporting are relatively common.","For example, suppose a user left the office for lunch and has manually changed his presence status to reflect this. He then returns, but forgets to change the status and then leaves on a business trip. People who check his status will be informed that he is still unavailable, i.e., out to lunch, when it may in fact be possible to reach him at an alternative location, such as a cell phone.","As such, there is a need for an improved system and method for accurately reporting a user's presence status. There is a further need for a system and method for tracking a user in a presence system.","These and other drawbacks in the prior art are overcome in large part by a system and method according to embodiments of the present invention.","A telecommunications system according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a plurality of network clients including a positioning controller and a communications controller; and a positioning server including a coordinating controller for maintaining a database of network clients to be tracked and provide updates of position-related information to a presence server. The plurality of network clients are configured to transmit position information received via the positioning controller to the positioning server via the communications controller, the positioning information including information related to loss of a position signal.","A telecommunications device according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a positioning controller adapted to determine positioning information for the telecommunications device; a cellular telephone controller adapted to receive the positioning information from said positioning controller and cause the positioning information to be transmitted to an associated server; and a database controller for maintaining a database of position-presence correlation rules defining when the positioning information is to be transmitted.","A telecommunications method according to an embodiment of the present invention includes receiving one or more user positioning and presence correlation rules at a server, wherein positioning information is received from remote users having positioning controllers for receiving location information and communication controllers for transmitting the location information to the server via a wireless communication network; and transmitting the one or more positioning and presence correlation rules to at least one of the remote users; wherein the one or more positioning and presence correlation rules include loss of a positioning signal.","A better understanding of these and other specific embodiments of the invention is obtained when the following detailed description is considered in conjunction with the following drawings.","System Overview and User Interface","Turning now to the drawings and, with particular attention to , a diagram of an exemplary telecommunications system  according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. As shown, the telecommunications system  includes an enterprise network , a wireless communication network , and may also include a global positioning network .","The wireless communication network  may be implemented as any of a variety of wireless telecommunications networks, such as a personal communication service (PCS) or cellular-type network, including dial-up cellular, or data cellular networks such as CDPD networks, SMS networks, WiFi networks, and the like. In other embodiments, the wireless communications network  may be implemented as one or more two-way radio networks. The wireless communication network  includes one or more network clients implemented as wireless devices , also referred to as remote devices. The wireless devices  may include positioning controllers  and communication controllers . As will be explained in greater detail below, the positioning controller  is configured to determine a position or location of the wireless device , such as by receiving global positioning network signals from one or more global positioning satellites . It is noted, however, that any mechanism to locate the device within the desired degree of precision may be employed. As will be explained in greater detail below, the remote device  operates to receive location information from the positioning system and transmit location and\/or presence updates to one or more users or servers using the communication controllers. The remote device  may likewise receive presence and\/or program updates from the servers. In certain embodiments, the communication controllers  are cellular telephone controllers.","In certain embodiments of the present invention, the wireless network  includes one or more positioning or remote servers . As will be explained in greater detail below, the remote server  may include a coordinating controller including a remote location control unit (RLCU)  and a remote presence control unit (RPCU) . The remote location control unit  may interact with an interface  to receive location signals from the remote users  and transmit updates, typically received from the enterprise network , to the remote users . In certain embodiments, the interface  is implemented as a telephone dial-up interface. The remote presence control unit  may interact with an interface  for transmitting and receiving presence and\/or location related updates to the enterprise server . Presence and\/or location rules, such as user identification and correlation pairs, may be stored in database .","As noted above, in the embodiment illustrated, the telecommunications system  of  includes an enterprise network . As shown, the enterprise network  includes a local area network (LAN) . The LAN  may be implemented using a TCP\/IP network and may implement voice or multimedia over IP using, for example, the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) or ITU Recommendation H.323. Coupled to the local area network  is an enterprise or presence server , which may be embodied as a multimedia server including a presence server or service.","The server  may include one or more controllers , which may be embodied as one or more microprocessors, and memory  for storing application programs and data. As will be explained in greater detail below, the server  may provide a variety of services to various associated client devices, including telephones, personal digital assistants, text messaging units, and the like. Further, according to embodiments of the present invention, the controllers  may implement an interactive suite of applications , including enterprise presence control units and enterprise location control units, as will be explained in greater detail below.","Also coupled to the LAN  is a gateway  which may be implemented as a gateway to a private branch exchange (PBX), the public switched telephone network (PSTN) , or any of a variety of other networks, such as a wireless, PCS, or cellular network. In addition, one or more local controllers such as LAN or IP telephones -and one or more computers -may be operably coupled to the LAN . A plurality of cellular telephone units  may also couple to the network, via gateway .","The computers -may be personal computers implementing the Windows XP operating system and thus, running Windows Messenger client. In addition, the computers -may include telephony and other multimedia messaging capabilities using, for example, peripheral cameras, microphones and speakers (not shown) or peripheral telephony handsets. In other embodiments, one or more of the computers may be implemented as wireless telephones, digital telephones, or personal digital assistants (PDAs). Thus, the figures are exemplary only. The computers may include one or more Pentium-type microprocessors, and storage for applications and other programs. The computers may further implement network interface devices  for presence control and network interaction and receiving signals for transmission over the network to the server .","In operation, a user may use one of the computers  to upload a set of one or more location-presence correlation rules to the enterprise presence server . The enterprise presence server  then maintains a database in memory  of presence users and their location rules. This information can then be provided when users' watch lists are updated, as will be explained in greater detail below. In turn, the enterprise server  can upload the rules to the remote location server . These, in turn, can be transmitted to the appropriate remote device , for example, via a dial-up operation. When the remote device  then receives location information from the GPS system , it can contact the remote server  and transmit the corresponding location and\/or presence information. The remote server  will then distribute the information to the appropriate local server , which will update the presence databases and watch lists for the various users.","Turning now to , a functional model diagram illustrating a server  including a control unit  is shown. More particularly,  is a logical diagram illustrating a particular embodiment of a server . The server  includes a plurality of application modules  and a communication broker module . In addition, the server  provides interfaces, such as SIP APIs (application programming interfaces)  to SIP IP phones  and gateways\/interworking units .","According to the embodiment illustrated, the broker module  includes a basic services module , presence module , an advanced services module , and a toolkit module .","The basic services module  functions to implement, for example, phone support, PBX interfaces, call features and management, as well as Windows Messaging and RTC add-ins, when necessary. The phone support features allow maintenance of and access to buddy lists and provide presence status.","It is noted that the above are MS Windows related terminology, but this invention can work in any type of IP based network, such as IBM SameTime, SUN One and the like.","The advanced services module  implements functions such as multipoint control unit (MCU), recording, Interactive Voice Response (IVR), and the like. MCU functions are used for voice conferencing and support ad hoc and dynamic conference creation from a buddy list following the SIP conferencing model for ad hoc conferences. In certain embodiments, support for G.711 and G.723.1 codecs is provided. Further, in certain embodiments, the MCU can distribute media processing over multiple MC's (Multimedia Processors) servers using the MEGACO protocol.","Presence features  provide device context for both SIP registered devices and user-defined non-SIP devices. Various user contexts, such as In Meeting, On Vacation, In the Office, etc., can be provided for. In addition, voice, e-mail and instant messaging availability may be provided across the user's devices. The presence feature  enables real time call control using presence information, e.g., to choose a destination based on the presence of a user's devices. In addition, various components have a central repository for presence information and for changing and querying presence information. In addition, the presence module  provides a user interface for presenting the user with presence information.","The broker module  may include an interactive voice response (IVR) such as the ComResponse platform, available from Siemens Information and Communication Networks, Inc. ComResponse features include speech recognition, speech-to-text, and text-to-speech, and allow for creation of scripts for applications.","In addition, real time call control is provided by a SIP API  associated with the basic services module . That is, calls can be intercepted in progress and real time actions performed on them, including directing those calls to alternate destinations based on rules and or other stimuli. The SIP API  also provides call progress monitoring capabilities and for reporting status of such calls to interested applications. The SIP API  also provides for call control from the user interface.","According to the embodiment illustrated, the application modules  include a collaboration module , an interaction center module , a mobility module , an interworking services module , and a presence-location control module .","The collaboration module  allows for creation, modification or deletion of a collaboration session for a group of users. The collaboration module  may further allow for invoking a voice conference from any client. In addition, the collaboration module  can launch a multi-media conferencing package, such as the WebEx package. It is noted that the multi-media conferencing can be handled by other products.","The interaction center  provides a telephony interface for both subscribers and guests. Subscriber access functions include calendar access and voicemail and e-mail access. The calendar access allows the subscriber to accept, decline, or modify appointments, as well as block out particular times. The voicemail and e-mail access allows the subscriber to access and sort messages.","Similarly, the guest access feature allows the guest access to voicemail for leaving messages and calendar functions for scheduling, canceling, and modifying appointments with subscribers. Further, the guest access feature allows a guest user to access specific data meant for them, e.g., receiving e-mail and fax back, etc.","The mobility module  provides for message forwarding and \u201cone number\u201d access across media, and message \u201cmorphing\u201d across media for the subscriber. Further, various applications can send notification messages to a variety of destinations, such as e-mails, instant messages, pagers, and the like. In addition, the subscriber can set rules that the mobility module  uses to define media handling, such as e-mail, voice and instant messaging handling. Such rules specify data and associated actions. For example, a rule could be defined to say \u201cIf I'm traveling, and I get a voicemail or e-mail marked Urgent, then page me.\u201d","The presence-location control module  may include database controller , a location control unit  and a location-presence control unit . As will be described in greater detail below, the database controller  operates to supervise network users, their location-presence rules, and their watch lists. The location control unit  may operate to receive location information from the remote server  or directly from users . The location-presence control unit  operates in conjunction with the presence unit  and the database controller  to receive and maintain the presence and\/or location rules for the corresponding users.","As noted above, the computers  may include interfaces  for inputting inbound and outbound location-presence rules and presence information. Such rules define both the user's availability (presence) and a specific location associated with the availability. The user can also specify callers who are allowed particularized access to the user.  illustrate exemplary interfaces that may be used to set location and presence rules. It is noted that the specific rules and locations described are exemplary only.","As shown in , in the embodiment illustrated, the user can set location , availability , callers , and status . It is noted that while particular examples are shown, other locations, availability, callers, and status may be specified. In addition, in certain embodiments, day of week and time of day parameters may also be specified. Thus, the figures are exemplary only.","As shown, example locations  include Exact Address 1 (Office); Exact Address 2 (Home); On Campus; Within City (Radius 1); Outside City (Radius 2); and Within City (Traveling). \u201cExact addresses\u201d allow the user to specify the exact address of a building or location and set a rule if the user is within a predetermined distance of the location. \u201cOn campus\u201d allows the user to specify a rule if the user is on, e.g., the corporate campus. \u201cWithin city or outside radius 1\u201d allows the user to specify a rule for when he is outside the campus or a specified building, but within a home city. \u201cOutside city or outside radius 2\u201d allows the user to set a rule for when he is outside the home city or a particular radius. \u201cWithin City (Traveling\u201d allows a user to specify that he is within the radius, but may have limited availability.","Example availability  includes Office Phone, E-mail, Instant Messaging, PDA wireless, Cell Phone, PCS cell phone, S49 cell phone, GSM S49 cell phone, and voicemail. The user's availability thus defines the medium to which the call is forwarded or otherwise handled. As can be appreciated, the availability can depend on the user's location. Further, the user may be available via more than one medium concurrently.","Exemplary caller lists  include All Callers; Work Group; or Individual Callers. Using \u201cAll Callers,\u201d the user can specify rules that will be binding on everyone who calls. \u201cWork Group\u201d is representative of one or more specified lists of users; for example, Family could be another group. \u201cIndividual Callers\u201d allow the user to specify a rule to apply on an individual basis to particular callers.","Finally, exemplary presence status  includes At Lunch, At desk, Online, On vacation, In Car, and the like. The status can be set to be automatically updated when a user is at a particular location, or the user can manually set it, as will be explained in greater detail below.","Exemplary rules that can be set include:","1. \u201cWhile I am in the office <exact address> I am available on my <office phone>, <e-mail>, and <Instant Messaging>.","2. While I am outside of my office <exact location>, but still <on campus>, I am available on my <PDA wireless> and on my <cell phone>.","3. While I am <one mile> away from <exact address> but still <within city> I am available on the <PCS phone>.","4. While I am more that <50 miles> away from <exact address> I am available on my <Siemens S49 cell phone>.","5. While I am in <Munich> then if the call is from <John> then dial my <GSM S49 phone>, otherwise forward call to my <voicemail>.","In addition to user location, presence status rules may be based on the ability of GPS systems to track user speed. For example, in certain embodiments, the system can detect that the user is traveling at a predetermined speed and then update his presence status and availability to indicate, for example, that his status is \u201cIn Car\u201d and that his availability is \u201ccar phone\u201d, \u201ccell phone,\u201d \u201cnot available,\u201d or the like.","For example, as shown in , the user can set location and the user can additionally set presence status  to indicate \u201cIn Car\u201d when the system detects he is traveling above a certain speed, such as 15 miles per hour, for example. The corresponding location  could indicate that the user is \u201cIn City\u201d and \u201cTraveling,\u201d if it is not desired to give a precise street location. Thus, an exemplary presence rule could be","6. If I am traveling in a speed greater than <15> mph, then I am in my car\u2014set the presence status to \u201cIn my car\u201d and I am then available at <cell phone>.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":"FIG. 3B-FIG","b":"3"},"For example, as shown in , a user can type in an address , which will then cause a map to be generated with the location  highlighted. As can be appreciated, the map of the interface of  may represent an office campus, with the location  representative of the user's office building. The user can then select one of the drop down menus ,  to set the contact information. For example, menu  may be used to set Office Phone, IM, or E-mail, typically associated with the user's office. Similarly, if outside the address, e.g., at location , or in another building, e.g., location , the user can also select contact information. Similar drop-down menus can be used to set user speed, etc.","As shown in , the user may also select a map location  and a radius or other boundary  around it. The user can then select a mode of contact within or outside the perimeter. For example, the user may travel from California  to Germany . Using menus , , the user can set the contact type as well as the specific callers who are authorized to reach him in Germany.","In addition to setting location rules, the user can set associated status rules, as shown in . For example, the user can designate whether he is In Office, Working Remotely, etc., and set corresponding contact information.","Turning now to , a block diagram illustrating an exemplary remote or positioning server  according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. As shown, the remote server  includes a control unit , which may include a remote location control unit  and a remote presence control unit ; a message generator ; a database  that may include a rules database  and a presence-location database ; a wireless interface ; and a network interface .","In certain embodiments, the rules database  stores location-presence rule pairs for registered users and is accessible by the presence control unit  and location control unit . Similarly, in certain embodiments, the presence-location database  receives the actual location information and correlates it with the appropriate rules in the rules database . In other embodiments, the remote location server  maintains a database only of remote users and their associated enterprises. The location and\/or presence information received from the remote users is then transmitted to the enterprise server .","The wireless interface  allows the server  to communicate over the wireless network  () to the remote devices . For example, the remote positioning server  can transmit rules updates or other information, such as macros, to the remote devices, and can receive presence updates and other information from them. In certain embodiments, the wireless interface  is a dial-up cellular telephone or PCS interface. For example, the wireless interface  may be implemented as a toll-free dial in for all remote units associated with a particular enterprise.","The message generator  and network interface  allow communication with the enterprise server . More particularly, the message generator  may be embodied as an e-mail message generator for formatting presence and\/or location information into an e-mail for transmission to designated enterprise users. Similarly, the message generator  can be used to unformat or read received messages. In other embodiments, the message generator may implement text messaging, such as Instant Messaging or SMS messaging.","In operation, as will be explained in greater detail below, the remote positioning server  can receive messages from the enterprise presence server  via the network interface  and in a format readable by the message generator . These messages can include rules and presence updates from enterprise users . Presence updates can be stored by the presence control unit  in presence-location database . Rules updates can be stored by the presence control unit  in the rules database . Presence and\/or rules updates can then be transmitted by the presence control unit  to remote users  using the wireless interface .","Similarly, location updates from remote users  can be received by the location control unit  via the wireless interface . The location control unit  can then store the new location information in the presence-location database . The presence control unit  can then transmit the new location and\/or presence information to the enterprise server  using the message generator , as discussed above.","It is noted that, in certain embodiments, the enterprise server and the remote server may be the same unit and provided with dial in capability from the remote devices. Thus, the figures are exemplary only.","Turning now to , a block diagram of an exemplary telecommunications device  according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. As noted, above, the device  may be compatible with any of a variety of PCS or cellular-type networks, including, for example, GSM, and 2G, 2.5G, and 3G cellular telephone systems. In the embodiment illustrated, the remote unit  includes a wireless controller , such as a cell phone or radio data network controller, and a GPS receiver , for receiving location or positioning signals. In addition, the remote unit  may maintain a rule database  of location-presence rules, and a rules compare controller  for comparing current conditions to those specified in the rules. As will be explained in greater detail below, the remote device  can send the location server  an update of location or presence information. The remote device  can likewise receive software and rules updates from the enterprise and\/or presence severs.","Turning now to , a flowchart illustrating operation of an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In particular, the flowchart of  illustrates setting one or more location-presence rules. Initially, at step , the user can set one or more location-presence rules using his enterprise computer  and mapping interface . At step , the user can transmit the rules from his enterprise computer  to the enterprise presence server . The enterprise server 's location-presence control unit  may then store the rules in the database . If the enterprise-presence server  does not actively maintain the tracking, the enterprise-presence server  will transmit the rules to the remote location server , at step . For example, the remote location server  may maintain a dedicated dial up or Internet connection for receiving the rules from enterprise users via interface  (). At step , the remote location server 's control unit  stores the rules in its presence-location database . Depending on how network and device positioning functionality is configured, the remote location server  may then transmit the rules to the user remote device  at step . For example, the remote location server  may dial up the remote device's telephone number; when the call is answered, the information can be uploaded. The user remote device  may be at least partially responsible for resolving location and presence correlations and determining when updates to status need to be made. Alternatively, the remote location server  could be solely responsible and thus need not transmit the rules to the remote user device , though a signal indicating the user device  should begin location monitoring may be sent. In either case, at step , the remote user device  will monitor the device location.","Turning now to , a flowchart illustrating device monitoring of device position according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. At a step , the remote device  receives position information via its position receiver  (). As noted, above, the position receiver  may be adapted to receive one or more position signals from a global positioning network  (). At step , the remote user device  uses its location compare unit  to access the rules database . At step , the location compare unit  determines if there has been a location or presence change. If so, then at step , the wireless control unit  sets up a call to the appropriate server ,  to advise of the new condition. It is noted that in other embodiments, the remote unit  can simply forward any received location or position information to the server as soon as it is received, without performing analysis or compares on the received information.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0100","num":"0099"},"figref":["FIG. 7B","FIG. 7B"],"b":["150","720","150","504","504","1006","722","150","508","506","724","726","728","502","152","152","152","152","404","104","730","161","160","168","152","104","104","116","732"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 7C","FIG. 7C"],"b":["150","740","150","504","504","1006","742","502","152","744","152","161","404","402","160","104","750","104","116","746","752"]},"In the embodiments discussed above, the location and\/or presence information is provided to the enterprise via a remote server . The remote server can be provided by a cellular service provider, for example. Each enterprise can be associated with a toll free number at the remote server and transmits the positioning data by calling this number. The remote server then uses its message generator to generate, for example, an e-mail message to the enterprise server. It is noted that, in other embodiments, the generated message could be a text message such as an IM message or an SMS message. Alternatively, the enterprise server could also be equipped with a dedicated phone line for receiving the information.","This is generally illustrated with reference to the flowchart of . As shown in , once the remote unit  receives the location information, in step , it can contact the remote server  via a toll-free dial up, for example, through the cellular and\/or public switched telephone networks. At step , the remote server, , which may be a service provided by the cellular or PCS service provider, receives the location and\/or presence update. At step , the remote server  formats the received information into an appropriate format, e.g., an e-mail format, and transmits it to the enterprise server . The enterprise server  receives it and updates the presence information, as discussed above, in step .","In the alternative, as shown in , the function of the remote server and the enterprise server could be combined in a single unit at the enterprise site. In this case, the enterprise server  would be provided with an interface for receiving calls from the remote devices. For example, a modem card could be provided, with a dial in. In this case, as shown at step , the remote device  calls the enterprise number with location and\/or presence updates. At step , the enterprise server  receives the updates and distributes them to requesting parties on the network, e.g., as a SIP message, at step , in manner similar to that discussed above.","Service Provider Central Server","As noted above, according to embodiments of the present invention, the various of the presence and location server functions may be provided by either the enterprise or the service provider.  illustrate in greater detail an embodiment in which location-presence services are provided by a remote cellular service provider.","For example, as shown in , presence server is shown which may be implemented as a centrally-hosted function by a service provider as a service to customers. In the embodiment illustrated, status updates are received via a dedicated toll free number and then provided to enterprise devices via e-mail or text messages. Similarly, program updates may be received as e-mail or text messages and then transmitted to the remote devices.","In , a server  is shown. The server  includes a telephone interface , a control unit , a party-rules database , and a presence message generator . The telephone interface  may be a telephone interface, such as a modem, accessible via a dedicated toll-free number for each enterprise. Also shown is an exemplary enterprise client computer .","In operation, when the remote device  has a presence status update to transmit to an enterprise client, the remote device  dials in to the toll-free number and transmits the information to the server . The control unit  then accesses the rules database  and the presence message generator  generates a message  to the enterprise containing the status update. The message may be in a variety of formats. For example, the message may be in an e-mail format, or a text massage format such as an SMS format, an IM format, and the like. The status e-mail may be directed to either a particular network client  or to the enterprise server . If it is directed to a particular network client, the enterprise server or the gateway will simply forward the message to the one or more network clients. Otherwise, the message may be directed to the enterprise server; the enterprise server can then read the message and use the information to update watch lists and presence status, etc.","As noted above, the enterprise and the remote server can share various of the presence-location responsibilities. For example, in one embodiment, the remote server  can handle all location-presence functions. In this case, the database  includes not only party rules, but also the presence status; this information is transmitted in the e-mail updates to the enterprise site. Alternatively, the remote server  could merely form a conduit for location information and send location updates to the enterprise according to the rules database. The enterprise server then updates the presence information.","Similarly, the enterprise client computer  may also compose a message such as an e-mail message including, for example, program updates or rule updates for transmission to the remote server . The update can be either in the body of the e-mail or as an attachment. The e-mail message is received at the remote server . The remote server  then identifies the sender and recipient; and reads the e-mail. If the e-mail contains a rules update, then the database  is updated. The remote device may also be called via the interface  and the update uploaded to the device. A program update is handled similarly.","Turning now to  and , diagrams of exemplary update e-mails according to embodiments of the present invention are shown. Shown in  is an exemplary presence update e-mail . The presence update e-mail  is generated by the message generator  to provide the update to the enterprise clients .","In the embodiment illustrated, a subject line  identifies the message as a presence update message. The body of the message can include party status  and recipients . Alternatively, the TO: line can identify the parties who shall receive the update.","Similarly,  illustrates an exemplary rules update e-mail message . The rules update e-mail message can be generated at the client  and transmitted to a predetermined e-mail address associated with the server . The message  may include a subject header  identifying the message as a rules update message, while the body  may contain the actual update content.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0114","num":"0113"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 11"],"b":["1102","150","1104","150","150","166","1106","900","162","1108","900","160","1110"]},"Turning now to , a flowchart illustrating rules updating according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. At step , the enterprise client user  updates his presence rules. For example, as discussed above, the user may input one or more rules changes into his computer or other network device. At step , the update contents are sent as an e-mail to the remote server . At step , the remote server  receives the contents and updates its database. At step , the rules updates may be provided to the remote unit.","Interfacing to the Remote Device","As discussed above, according to embodiments of the present invention, presence-position and software updates may be transmitted to and from the remote device via a cellular telephone dial-up. That is, to report changes in position, the remote device  may dial a toll free number associated with either the remote or enterprise server and using a modem (or similar device on a digital channel), transmit the position information on the voice channel. However, other cellular data technologies may be used. In other embodiments of the invention, any radio data network may be used, such as the cellular control channel (e.g., using SMS or CDPD technologies); wireless LAN technologies (e.g., Wi-Fi or IEEE 802.11a, b, g); or two-way radio technologies may be employed for sending and receiving the presence or update information.","In , operation of such embodiments will be discussed with reference to an SMS-based system. In particular,  illustrates an exemplary network configuration for such an embodiment.  illustrates a system in which a data communications network such as a Short Message Service (SMS) is used for position and software update transmission. As noted above, other data transmission systems may be employed, however.","Shown are a remote device  and a server . Also shown are a wireless network , an SMSC , and Internet\/Intranet . As will be explained in greater detail below, the remote device  receives positioning signals (not shown) from a positioning network and transmits them via the wireless network  to the SMSC . The SMSC  then transmits the message over Internet\/Intranet  to the server .","In the embodiment illustrated, the remote device  includes GPS receiver , cellular transceiver , and a data interface , such as an e-mail or text messaging interface. As illustrated, the interface is particularly SMS control unit . Similarly, remote server  includes interface , which is an interface for receiving the SMS messages via Internet\/Intranet . Similarly, the remote server  can send updates to the remote device  as SMS messages.","Exemplary SMS messages are shown in  and . It is noted that such messages may be embodied as text or data messages. Shown in  is an exemplary SMS status message . As discussed above, such a status message may be received from the remote unit . As shown, a status SMS message  can include an identifier  identifying the message as a position status message; a device identification  identifying the transmitting device; and the corresponding position information . Similarly, a rules update message is shown in . The rules update message is sent from the remote server  to the remote device  to update the presence\/location rules. As shown, the message includes an update identifier  identifying the message as an update message; a device identifier identifying the destination device; and the update information .","Operation of an embodiment of the present invention is shown with reference to the signaling diagram of . Shown are remote device , SMSC , Remote Server , and Enterprise Server . It is noted that other network configurations are possible. Thus, the figure is exemplary only. Shown at  is the remote device  receiving GPS signals and transmitting corresponding information to the enterprise server . Transmission of software\/firmware updates to the remote device  is shown at .","At , the remote device  receives one or more position signals, i.e., GPS position signals. The SMS controller  receives position and\/or presence signals from the GPS receiver , and converts them into the proper SMS message format at , as discussed, for example, with reference to . The SMS controller  then dials the appropriate contact number at the remote server , at . The SMS message travels on the cellular control channel to the SMSC , which then forwards it to the remote server , at . The remote server  may then pass the message on to the enterprise server , at . As discussed above, the remote server  may transmit the information as an e-mail or other message. The enterprise server  may then process and distribute the presence information accordingly.","Transmission of updates to the remote device  is shown at .","At , the enterprise server  receives one or more program updates or location rule updates from the network client (). The enterprise server  can receive the updates, for example, in a network format such as SIP format. Once received, the enterprise server  transmits the update to the remote server , at . At , the remote server  converts the received update into a network transmission format, such as SMS format. At , the remote server  dials the remote device cell number and transmits the SMS message over the cellular control channel to the SMSC , which then forwards it to the remote device .","Remote-Device Based Compare","As noted above, the remote device  may itself receive rules updates from network clients via the remote server . In certain embodiments, the remote device  may also perform the location and\/or presence compare operations. In such embodiments, the remote device  may then need to signal the remote server  only when a change in status occurs, such as the remote unit leaving a location defined by a perimeter, boundary, range, or presence rule defined by the user.","Remote device based compare units are shown schematically with reference to . Shown in  is an exemplary location rules compare unit  that functions to identify if there has been an update in the user's current location. The unit  includes a comparator  that receives as inputs a current location  and a previous location . In operation, the remote unit  receives the location signals corresponding to the current location and input them to the comparator . The remote device  also accesses memory (not shown) for the previous location, which is also sent to the comparator . The comparator  determines if there has been a significant change in the user's location from the previous location. If so, the comparator  may output a signal  directing the remote device  to transmit to the remote server . Otherwise, no action is taken.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0127","num":"0126"},"figref":["FIG. 16B","FIG. 16B","FIG. 18A"],"b":["508","508","508","1602","1604","1606","1602","1608","1608","1610","1612","1612","506","1610","1614","1614","506","1616"]},"As noted above, either the location or presence may trigger an update signal to the remote server.  illustrates an embodiment in which a presence update triggers a signal to the remote server. As shown, the current location  is input to the rules database . The rules database  accesses the current presence rule and outputs it at . The current presence state is input to comparator , as is the previous presence rule .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0129","num":"0128"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1702","150","150","506"]},"At a step , the remote device  begins to monitor its current location, such as by receiving global positioning signals. At a step , the remote device 's location rule compare unit  will compare the received location to the corresponding location rule stored in the database . If there is not change, as determined in a step , then the remote device  will simply continue to monitor the location. If, however, there is a location change, then different actions may occur, depending on the embodiment.","In one embodiment, in a step , the location change is transmitted to the remote server or the enterprise server, which then process the information. Alternatively, in a step , the location rule compare unit  can access the rules database  for the corresponding presence status rule and determine the current presence state. In certain embodiments, at a step , the remote device  will then transmit the accessed current state to the remote or enterprise server. In other embodiments, in a step , the location rules compare unit  will determine if there has been a change in the presence state. If so, then in a step , this change, or the new presence state, will be transmitted to the remote or enterprise server. If there has been no state change, then the system continues to monitor location and presence at step .","It is noted that in certain embodiments, the current location may be used to determine whether there has been a presence change, without making an explicit determination of whether there has been a location change. Thus, after step , the system could proceed to step , without an intervening step .","Watchdog Timer","In certain embodiments of the present invention, either or both of the remote units and the server(s) may be provided with a watchdog timer to allow for confirmation the remote units are still running.","Shown in  is an exemplary server, such as enterprise server  or remote server , and a remote user device . The remote device  may be provided with a watchdog timer , or the server  may be provided with a timer . At periodic intervals, the remote device  and remote server  may communicate timer ticks with one another, for example, by calling the toll-free or user device telephone numbers.","In one embodiment, the remote unit 's timer  maintains a predetermined count; when the timer expires, the remote unit  sends a current location and\/or presence or status change to the remote server . Thus, the remote unit  sends location and\/or presence updates to the remote server  on a periodic basis.","In another embodiment, the remote server 's timer  maintains a count when a user device  is detected. Upon expiration of the timer, the server  sends a \u201chere I am\u201d signal to the remote user, requesting that it send a location and\/or presence update; alternatively, the \u201chere I am\u201d signal could merely indicate that the remote unit  should send a response tick, until an actual location or presence change occurs, at which point the remote unit  sends the updates. Such timer tick signals may be sent, for example, on cellular control channels. If the remote server  does not receive a response to its timer tick, it can update the corresponding remote unit's presence status to \u201cunknown\u201d or \u201cunavailable\u201d or otherwise indicate that the remote user has not responded to the timer tick status request.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0137","num":"0136"},"figref":"FIG. 19A","b":["152","1902","150","152","150","152","1904","150","1804","1906","150","1910","150","152","1804","1908","1804","150","1910"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0138","num":"0137"},"figref":"FIG. 19B","b":["1920","150","152","1922","152","1802","1924","150","1930","150","152","1926","1928","152","150","150","152","152"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0139","num":"0138"},"figref":"FIG. 19C","b":["1950","150","152","1952","152","1802","1954","1802","152","1956","1958","150","152","1960","150","1962","150","152","1802"]},"Loss of Signal","In certain embodiments of the present invention, it may be the case that a global positioning signal is not received when a user is inside a building. In such a case, the system according to embodiments of the present invention may determine that the user is in a building at an address associated with a position where the signal faded or was lost.","This is illustrated schematically in . As shown at , a user is normally able to receive both GPS signals and cell phone signals . At position , the user may be within a building and thus receive only cell phone signals . When the user exits the building, at , the user again receives both GPS and cell phone signals . In operation, the system may assign an address to the user when the user is tracked to a point where the GPS signal is lost. For example, at perimeter , the GPS signal may be lost or fall below a predetermined threshold. In this case, the user may be \u201cassigned\u201d a location closest to the one where the signal was lost. Alternatively, the position the signal was lost may be compared to a known address, and the user may be assigned that address over the period during which the signal is lost. Further, when the user is deemed to be at such a location, contact information may also be updated. Thus, when the signal is lost at , the user's contact information may be switched from his cell phone to an office telephone number.","It is noted that, while in some cases it may be desirable to update location and presence each time the signal is lost and regained, in other cases the location at which the signal is lost may be a subset of another position related to presence. This is illustrated in . Shown in  is an area  that may be associated with a single \u201clocation\u201d and presence indicia. For example, the area  may be the city of Munich, and the location can simply be \u201cMunich,\u201d with an associated contact telephone number, such as a GSM cell phone. In this case, it would not necessarily be required to continually update the location or presence, since the user's presence status will not change.","For example, at position , the user is within the area  and hence in \u201cMunich.\u201d At position , the user may be within a building in Munich, where his GPS signal fails. The user's location, Munich, need not necessarily be changed to a more specific one (i.e., the specific address of the building), because the user is still within area . Even when the user's GPS signal is restored at , the location need not be updated. Only when the user leaves are , e.g., to return home, would the location be updated.","A flowchart illustrating operation of such an embodiment of the present invention is shown in . At a step , the system monitors the user's current location. At a step , the system detects loss of the GPS signal. For example, the remote device  can determine that the signal has fallen below a predetermined threshold. At step , the system checks to see if a new rule is to be implemented in response to the loss of signal. That is, depending on the embodiment, the remote device  can check its rules database, or it can simply send a signal to the remote server  advising of the loss of the signal. If a new rule is to be implemented, then the user's location and\/or presence are updated according to the new rule. Otherwise, the current rule is maintained, in step . Once the new rule has been implemented, the system can detect reception of the GPS signal, i.e., once the user leaves the building, in a step . Again, the remote device  can detect if the GPS signal exceeds the threshold. The system will monitor to determine if the received signal indicates that a new rule should be implemented, as shown instep . If so, then in step , the new location rule is implemented. If not, then in step , the old one is maintained.","Hysteresis","As discussed above, embodiments of the present invention can be used to define a user presence status based on user speed. For example, a user speed of, say 15 miles per hour or greater can be associated with a presence status of \u201cIn car\u201d and an availability of \u201ccell phone.\u201d As can be appreciated, however, particularly when driving in large cities and when stopped at a light or in traffic, the user's speed may not be constantly above 15 miles per hour. Consequently, to prevent continuous toggling, a hysteresis time threshold can also be set and transferred to the remote device.","That is, in certain embodiments of the present invention, when a user is \u201cIn Car,\u201d the appropriate system component must determine that the user has been traveling at a speed below the threshold for a predetermined period prior to deciding that his presence status has changed.","For example,  is a flowchart illustrating operation of an embodiment of the present invention. At a step , the system detects a user device speed above a threshold T. In certain embodiments, the threshold can be 15 miles per hour and be user-settable, in a manner similar to that discussed above. At a step , the user's presence status is set to \u201cIn car.\u201d At a step , the remote user is detected as having a speed less than the threshold T. At a step , the system device responsible for setting user status starts a hysteresis timer. If the speed is still less than the threshold upon expiration of the timer, as determined in step , then in step , the user's status can be changed. For example, prior to getting in the car, the user's location and status could have been \u201cIn city\u201d and \u201cAt lunch,\u201d respectively. When the user is detected as moving at speed, the presence status can be updated to \u201cIn car.\u201d When the user is detected as moving below the threshold for a predetermined period, the presence status can be updated to \u201cAt lunch,\u201d once more.","It is noted that similar hysteresis timers\/thresholds can be provided in association with any of the location-status rules. Such hysteresis timers may be particularly useful in situations in which the GPS signal has been lost due to the user entering a building. To prevent the toggling that would result if the user is, say, waiting at the entrance to the building, moving inside and outside GPS range, hysteresis timers may be provided.","This is illustrated more particularly with reference to the flowchart of . As shown, in a step , the system detects a loss of GPS signal. For example, the remote device 's GPS controller can detect that the GPS signal is below a predetermined threshold. At a step , the remote device  starts a hysteresis timer. If there is still no signal upon expiration of the hysteresis timer, as shown in step , then in step , the remote device  updates the user's presence status. Otherwise, the system waits for the loss of signal again. A similar process is used if the user moves from a state of \u201cNo signal\u201d to \u201cSignal.\u201d","Third-Party Monitoring","According to an embodiment of the present invention, an improved third-party location monitoring device is provided. Briefly, in addition to providing the presence capabilities as described above, a remote device according to embodiments of the present invention may be affixed to an object, person, or pet, and set to trigger an alarm if it departs from a user-programmed range. A graphical user interface is provided for setting the range. Rules, presence, location and alarm updates may be transmitted in a manner similar to that discussed above, i.e., wirelessly and\/or using e-mail or text messaging techniques.","One embodiment of a remote unit in accordance with the present invention is shown with reference to . In the embodiment illustrated, the remote unit - may be removeably affixed to an object or person or pet, such as via a lock, etc. As shown, the remote unit - includes GPS receiver  and controller . In the embodiment illustrated, the remote unit - may be affixed to a person or pet via belt  to provide a monitor with presence and location information related to the monitored user. In addition, in certain embodiments, an audible alarm  may be provided.","Operation of this embodiment of the present invention is shown with reference to . Shown is remote unit - and exemplary sites Home  and School . A boundary or perimeter  is defined by a base or home user, as will be explained in greater detail below, and is uploaded to the remote device -. The remote unit - is tracked within the area defined by boundary , in a manner similar to that discussed above; presence information, such as contact information (e.g., a school telephone number), may be provided. If the device exits the region or crosses the boundary, an alarm will be sent to an administration device such as a base or home user. As will be explained in greater detail below, the user may also define day of week and time of time associations with the boundary .","A system for programming the remote unit - is shown in . In general, the system of  is similar to that of , but may be more suitable for a home user. As shown, the system includes an administration device such as a server \/ (for convenience, functions of the servers ,  are shown in a single unit), as well as a client computer -, with software - to program location and time ranges, as well as presence and contact information. The computer - may be equipped with a modem or other network interface device  for communicating with the server \/. As shown, the modem  may be implemented as a landline modem or a wireless modem.","In operation, the client computer - programs location and\/or time-date boundaries, which are uploaded to the server \/ via modem . The server \/ then \u201ccalls\u201d the cellular phone number of the remote unit - and uploads the location parameters and can associate presence information, as well. In turn, the remote unit - periodically receives GPS signals and transmits the associated coordinates to the server \/, which can then send these to the client -. Alternatively, the remote unit - itself can perform the location compares and transmit to the client - when it detects it is outside the defined boundaries.","It is noted that, in alternate embodiments, the client computer - could perform all server-related functions. Further, it is noted that the location alarm could be sent to any desired location, i.e., a user cellular telephone not directly associated with the client computer -. Thus, the figures are exemplary only.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0156","num":"0155"},"figref":"FIG. 27","b":["2702","2504","2500","2502","2500","2502","2704","2708","2710","2712"]},"Turning now to , a flowchart illustrating operation of an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In a step , the user can program in the location parameters. At step , the user can program in associated date and time parameters. The received parameters can be maintained in a database in association with a device identification at the client computer, the server, or the remote unit itself, in a manner similar to that discussed above. The parameters may be sent to the remote unit - via the modem by dialing an associated cell phone number. In step , the system then monitors the location.","Turning now to , a flowchart illustrating operation of an embodiment of the present invention is shown. At step , the remote unit - receives position signals, such as GPS signals. At step , the received position signal is compared with the database. As noted above, this may be done either at the remote unit itself, by the server, or by the client computer. If the remote unit - is determined to be outside the range, as determined at step , then in step , an alarm is signaled. Otherwise, at step , the system continues to monitor the location.","Secure Monitoring","In addition, a tracking system such as described above may be equipped to allow a monitored person to request a boundary or schedule change. Such a system may be used, for example, by a parolee and parole officer. Again, rules, presence, location and alarm updates may be transmitted in a manner similar to that discussed above.","Such a system  is shown in . In the embodiment illustrated, the system  includes a remote security device - and server -. The remote security device - and server - may communicate, as in the above embodiments, via the Internet or cellular or PCS networks. In addition, the system includes a user computer, such as a personal computer , which couples via the Internet to a monitor agent , who is also capable of communicating with the monitor server -. The monitoring server includes database , which is accessible from monitor agent, typically a secure connection.","In operation, the security device - is programmed with a predetermined user schedule and location boundaries. The security device - will send an alarm to the monitoring agent  if the user violates those boundaries or deviates from the schedule. In certain embodiments, the alarm may additionally be an audio alarm. Such an alarm could sound when the user exits the permitted area, and increase in volume over a predetermined period or range of the boundary until it achieves a maximum, as will be explained in greater detail below.","In addition, as will be explained in greater detail below, the user may request a temporary deviation from the schedule. For example, if the user must travel to a location not on the schedule or within the boundaries, he can use computer  to request a temporary change in the boundary. The request is transmitted to the monitoring agent , who can deny or grant the request. If the request is granted, the database  is updated.","The actual monitoring of the device - and communicating updates may be accomplished in a manner similar to that discussed above. The exception request, however, may be made using e-mail and\/or a secure Internet host web site Internet such that the user can log in to the host and transmit the request. For example,  illustrates an exemplary secure web page request window . As shown, the window includes a current schedule  and a modification request . It is noted that such a modification request web page may have different formats and employ suitable scripting to ensure security. The figure is exemplary only. Alternatively, the user can compose a suitable e-mail or text message including the necessary identification and re-scheduling information.","In either case, the request is received at the monitoring agent , such as a parole officer. The monitoring agent  can himself log in to the supervising server - to accept or reject the request. If the request is accepted, the monitoring agent  can update the database and transmit the update to the remote unit. For example, the update may be transmitted to the remote unit - using the cellular telephone network in a manner similar to that described above.","Turning now to , a flowchart illustrating operation of an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In a step , the monitored user can access a monitor web site, or otherwise compose a modification request. In a step , the request can be delivered to the monitoring agent. If the request is granted, in a step , then the update to the boundaries\/schedule is transmitted to the security device -. Otherwise, the monitoring agent can respond, in a step , via the web or an e-mail or other communication method.","Intermediate and Audio Alarm","As noted above, the remote device can be equipped with an audible alarm as well as the transmission alarm, which can vary depending on the amount of time or the distance the user has violated the boundary condition. As shown in , the volume of the audible alarm  can increase with distance or time, until it a threshold  of distance or time is reached. At this time, the volume can plateau at a maximum level .","Shown in  is a map that may correspond to the volume graph of . Shown is a user , a warning boundary , and a boundary . In operation, the system may detect the user crossing the warning boundary , which may correspond to point d on the graph of . As the user proceeds to boundary , the volume increases; the boundary  may correspond to the point df on graph of . At this point, the volume is at a maximum. Similarly, as noted above, the volume alarm may be triggered based on time after crossing either warning boundary  or boundary .","Operation of this embodiment is shown with reference to the flowchart of . As shown, in step , the remote security unit - monitors the user's location. If the user is inside the designated area, as determined in step , the system will continue to monitor. If the user is outside the designated area, then in step , the device - may sound an audible alarm or send an alert to the monitoring station -. As noted above, in certain embodiments, the user may be given a predetermined time to return to within the designated boundary prior to sounding the alarm.","A flowchart illustrating operation of another embodiment of the present invention is shown in . In step , the device - detects it is outside the prescribed area. At , a timer is started. This may be either on-board or associated with the remote server(s). At , the timer may expire. The system checks if the user is still outside the designated area, in step . If not, the system will simply continue monitoring, in step . Otherwise, at step , the system can sound the alarm, either at a maximum level, or a ramp up level.","The invention described in the above detailed description is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein, but is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications and equivalents as can reasonably be included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example, while described primarily with reference to global positioning signals, alternative methods for determining device location may be used. These can include, for instance, use of cell location signals within the cellular network."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3A-FIG","b":"3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 7A-7C"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIGS. 8A-8B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 10A","FIG. 10B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIG. 14A","FIG. 14B"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 16A-FIG","b":"16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 17"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 18"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 19A-FIG","b":"19"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 20A-20B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 21"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIG. 22"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":"FIG. 23"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 24"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 25"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 26"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 27"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":"FIG. 28"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 29"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":"FIG. 30"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 31"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 32"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 33"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":"FIG. 34"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":"FIG. 35"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":"FIG. 36"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
