---
title: Efficiently displaying and researching information about the interrelationships between documents
abstract: A system for displaying, on a computer screen, information concerning the interrelationships of documents. A system employing the present invention also allows for the efficient research of documents that cite a document shown on the computer screen. In one embodiment, the present invention involves displaying at least a portion of a first document and simultaneously displaying a representation of one or more citing documents. The citing documents cite some portion of the displayed document. In another embodiment, the invention involves displaying at least a portion of a first document, and displaying a representation of one or more citing documents, wherein the displayed citing documents cite the displayed portion of the first document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07302638&OS=07302638&RS=07302638
owner: 
number: 07302638
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20030829
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09\/784,469, filed Feb. 16, 2001 now abandoned (entitled \u201cMethod for Efficiently Displaying and Researching Information about the Interrelationships Between Documents\u201d), which is a continuation of Ser. No. 09\/245,183, filed Feb. 5, 1999 (entitled \u201cDocument Research System and Method for Efficiently Displaying and Researching Information about the Interrelationships Between Documents\u201d), now U.S. Pat. No. 6,263,351, which is a continuation of Ser. No. 09\/014,669, filed Jan. 28, 1998 (entitled \u201cDocument Research System and Method for Efficiently Displaying and Researching Information about the Interrelationships Between Documents having a Document Title and Document Body\u201d), now U.S. Pat. No. 5,870,770, which is a continuation of Ser. No. 08\/487,925, filed Jun. 7, 1995 (entitled \u201cDocument Research System and Method for Efficiently Displaying and Researching Information about the Interrelationships Between Documents having a Document Title and Document Body\u201d), now abandoned. All of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference.","The present invention relates to a system and method of displaying information on a computer screen. A system employing the present invention provides an efficient procedure for researching documents and the interrelationships between documents. The present invention is particularly applicable to research involving documents that extensively cite or refer to other documents.","The nature of many academic and professional writings is such that authors rely upon and cite previously published works, studies, or test results to support arguments or opinions. For example, in the common law system in America, lawyers and judges cite and rely upon previously decided cases (i.e., written judicial opinions) to support their arguments and opinions. The American common law system is particularly reliant upon the precedent established by previous case decisions because a judicial court (or judge) will usually consider as very persuasive a previously-decided case in which the same legal issue has been resolved or decided.","However, courts will not always agree with, or be bound by, previously-decided cases. Instead of agreeing with a conclusion reached in a previous case, or \u201cfollowing\u201d it, courts may occasionally, disagree with, criticize, question, reverse, or overrule the previous case. Therefore, beginning with the first time a case is cited in a subsequent case, the earlier case's authoritative value can change. For example, if a persuasive judge is critical of the earlier case, that earlier case will be less authoritative than it was before the judge's critical treatment of the case. On the other hand, if the judge strongly supports the reasoning of the earlier case, the authoritative value of the earlier case will be enhanced. Virtually every time a case is discussed or cited, its authoritativeness or precedential status is affected. The importance or precedential status of a case can continue to evolve over many years as a result of interpretations given to it by judges in subsequent cases.","Therefore, when considering a legal issue decided in a court's written opinion or decision, it is critical to consider what subsequent cases have said about it. Lawyers performing legal research consequently have a need to determine which later cases have discussed (and therefore, cited) any given earlier case. For many years, lawyers have been able to find out which later cases have cited any given case by using a tool known as Shepard's Citations published by McGraw-Hill, Inc. Shepard's Citations is basically an organized index that lists all the cases that have cited a particular case. When a later case cites an earlier case, there is usually some discussion of the earlier, cited case. Shepard's Citations also sometimes gives a brief indication of how the later case treated the earlier case of interest (e.g., the later case may have \u201cfollowed,\u201d \u201ccriticized,\u201d or \u201cquestioned\u201d the earlier case).","In recent years, legal research has been increasingly performed by lawyers using computerized legal research systems. The most popular of these may be the on-line legal research systems, such as Westlaw and LEXIS\/NEXIS. However, legal research systems employing local CD-ROM or other databases have become quite popular.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 1"],"i":["a ","a"],"b":["101","102","103"]},"Also shown in the title bar  is the \u201crank\u201d  of the displayed document, which is simply the position or order of the Wilson case with respect to all of the other documents found in the search conducted by the user. In this particular example, the Wilson case is ranked second out of three search documents. Each of the search documents is a document that satisfies a particular query entered by the user, and in the example shown in , three documents in the database CTA satisfy the user's query.","The current page number and the number of pages in the document are shown in at . The number of pages essentially corresponds to the number of screens the Wilson case fills. For example, shows the first Westlaw page of the Wilson case, and shows Westlaw page 25. is the screen that is twenty-fifth of the thirty-nine screens that make up the Wilson case. and thus simply show different portions of the text of the Wilson case.","As described above, when researching issues that are discussed in the Wilson case, it is very useful to see what subsequently decided cases have said about the analysis in the Wilson case. The Westlaw system provides access to this type of information through a number of services, one of which is the on-line version of Shepard's Citations. In the Westlaw system, the user can access this information by selecting a menu item from a pull-down menu or by selecting (i.e., \u201cclicking on\u201d) an on-screen button. When the user selects the Shepard's Citation service in Westlaw while viewing the Wilson case, a screen similar to that shown in is displayed.","The top of shows at  a citation to the cited document, 904 F.2d 677, which is the citation to the Wilson case. Thus, the Wilson case is considered, in this screen, to be the \u201ccited\u201d document. A parallel citation to the Wilson case is shown at . also contains a list  of citations to a number of cases. The citations in this list  are references to cases which cite the Wilson case. These cases listed at  are called \u201cciting cases\u201d because they are later cases that cite the Wilson case (i.e., the cited case). In other words, the text of each of the cases shown in the list  contains a specific reference to the Wilson case.","The citation  at the bottom of (\u201c140 F.R.D. 121, 127\u201d), indicates that a case having a citation to the Wilson case can be found starting at page 121 of volume 140 of the F.R.D. (Federal Rules Decisions) reporter series. The specific citation or reference to the Wilson case can be found on page 127 of that volume. also shows at  that this citation references headnote 9 of the Wilson case. This means that the case at  F.R.D. 121 cites the Wilson case for the issue discussed at headnote 9 of the Wilson case. The headnotes are prepared and categorized by the West Publishing Company.","As suggested at  of , the Shepard's listing for the Wilson case spans eight Westlaw screens. Page 2 of the Shepard's listing is shown in . This page lists additional citing cases (i.e., cases that cite the Wilson case). As can be seen from and , the Shepard's citations are listed in a somewhat organized manner. For example, in , the cases decided in the First Circuit that cite the Wilson case are listed under the heading \u201cCir. 1,\u201d and the cases in the Second Circuit that cite the Wilson case are listed under heading \u201cCir. 2.\u201d also shows an instance in which the Shepard's listing analyzes one of the listed citations. At , the Shepard's listing suggests that the case published at 796 F.Supp. 640 (the \u201cciting case\u201d) \u201cfollowed\u201d the analysis or reasoning of the Wilson case. This means that the citing case (found at 796 F.Supp. 640) applied the same analysis as the court in the Wilson case. The Shepard's Citations listing also will occasionally provide other analysis of citing cases, and may, for example, point out those cases which \u201cexplain,\u201d \u201ccriticize,\u201d or \u201creverse\u201d the Wilson case.","As described above, the Westlaw system allows the researcher to see a list of citing cases, such as that provided by Shepard's Citations. However, the Westlaw system requires the user to move to another screen to see these citations, thereby covering the displayed text of the case of interest. This is distracting to the researcher, because once the text of the case is no longer displayed, the researcher cannot refer back to the displayed text without removing the citations from the screen. In addition, because the citations list in Westlaw can often be many screens in length, the user must perform the tedious task of paging through the entire citations list and uncovering those citations that are relevant to the particular portion of the displayed document that the researcher is studying. The Westlaw system and others in the art are therefore relatively unsophisticated in the manner in which they display lists of citing cases. None of the computer-based research systems in the art provide a listing of which citing cases based on the context of the displayed document. Thus, none provide any indication of which citing cases specifically refer to the text displayed on the screen or selected by the user.","The present invention relates to a method of displaying documents in a research system. In one embodiment, the method involves displaying at least a portion of a first document and simultaneously displaying a representation of one or more citing documents. The citing documents cite some portion of the displayed document.","In another embodiment, the method involves displaying at least a portion of a first document, and displaying a representation of one or more citing documents, wherein the citing documents cite the displayed portion of the first document. The citing documents could alternatively cite a highlighted part of the displayed portion of the first document.","Other embodiments are described in the Detailed Description.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system for efficiently researching interrelated documents.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method and system for analyzing the precedential value of a judicial opinion.","It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a method and system for effectively conveying to the researcher information concerning the interrelationships of documents.","The present invention relates to a method of displaying interrelationships of documents on a computer screen. Specifically, the present invention relates to a computerized research system that provides the researcher with information about documents that cite a document that the user is studying.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","201","202","203","201","203","205","204","205","206","206","206","202","202","206"]},"The physical structure of the database  may involve one or more hard disks, CD-ROMs, or any other mass storage devices and may or may not be distributed. The database  may also be integrated into the secondary storage device . As is well known in the art, the database  can be near or local to the CPU , or it can be remotely located relative to the CPU . Any type of database  that is capable of operating according to the present invention is appropriate.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["a ","b "],"b":["302","304","310","306","308","316","302","316"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIGS. 3","i":["a ","b "],"b":["3","311","312","311","314","311","207","207"]},"The representations of the cases in the box  can be listed in a particular order, such as by date decided, or by jurisdiction, or by some other characteristic. It is also possible to include only a subset of the cases in the database. For example, the user may only be interested in seeing representations of cases that come from a particular court or group of courts, or from a particular period of time.","A representation is herein defined to be any indication, marker, button, menu item, link, or reference associated with another a document. A representation could also be labelled with the title, citation, or some other portion of the document. However, the representation need not be labelled as shown in the Figures. Representations may have any other labelling or alternatively, no labelling at all. A representation may correspond to a single document, or it may correspond to more than one document, or a group of documents. For example, instead of having a representation for each document, a representation may be simply a button that corresponds to a plurality of documents, where the representation is labelled to indicate the number of citations the representation corresponds to.","In and , the citing cases box  has a representation  for each of the cases that cite the Graver Tank case. In the embodiment shown, the citing cases box  contains eight representations of cases that cite the Graver Tank case. The representations  shown in this embodiment are labelled so as to indicate the name  of the citing case, the citation  to the citing case, the paragraph  in the citing case that cites the Graver Tank case, and also the Graver Tank paragraph  that is cited by the citing case. Thus, from this first representation, it can be seen that paragraph 43 of the Pennwalt case cites the sixth paragraph of the Graver Tank case. Similarly, the representation at the top of the box indicates that paragraph 13 of the Pennwalt case, which is reported at 833 F.2d 931, cites paragraph four of the Graver Tank case. There is more than one representation for the Pennwalt case because the Pennwalt case cites the Graver Tank case more than once. Similarly, the citing cases box  shows the Perkin-Elmer case cites the sixth paragraph of the Graver Tank case three times.","The user can display one of these citing cases by selecting a representation shown in the citing cases box . shows how the display is updated when the user selects the first representation shown in the citing cases box . Selection can be done by any means known in the art, such as by keyboard, mouse, pen, touch-screen, voice command, or otherwise. The text box  of has been updated to show the beginning of the Pennwalt case, which corresponds to the representation at the top of the citing cases box  in . The user can scroll through the text of the Pennwalt case in by manipulating the scroll bar .","Also as shown in , the citing cases box  is updated to contain representations of the cases that cite the Pennwalt decision. The representations of the cases citing the Graver Tank case are removed from the citing cases box . Thus, when the text box contains a new case, the citing cases box  is updated to reflect the cases that cite the new decision.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0068","num":"0067"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 3","FIGS. 3"],"i":["a","b","c","a ","c"],"b":["3","3","401","302","3"]},"In the next step , the system checks to see if the user has selected one of the representations. Once the user does select one of the representations, step  updates the display to show the citing case corresponding to the selected representation and also to show representations of cases that cite the new displayed case.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIGS. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 3","FIG. 5","FIG. 3"],"i":["a ","i ","a","a","a","a "],"b":["5","302","302","311"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0071","num":"0070"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIGS. 5"],"i":["b ","b","b ","a ","i"],"b":["306","501","302","311","311","302","5","311","302"]},"As the user further scrolls through the text of the Graver case, the citing cases box  is updated as paragraphs are displayed in the text box  and removed from the text box . For example, in , paragraphs four and five of the Graver Tank case are displayed in their entirety, and a portion of paragraph six is displayed in the text box . The citing cases box  in therefore contains representations of those citing cases that cite paragraphs four, five, and six of the Graver Tank case. When the user continues to scroll through the text of the Graver Tank case so that, as shown in , only paragraph six of the Graver Tank case is displayed, and the citing cases box  is updated so that only the cases that cite paragraph six of the Graver Tank case are represented in the box . Thus, representation  (which corresponds to a case citing paragraph four of the Graver Tank case) is in the citing cases box  in , but is removed from the box  when paragraph four is no longer in the text box  as shown in ","Representation  in the citing cases box  corresponds to the Pennwalt case, which cites the sixth paragraph of the Graver Tank paragraph. This citation to Graver Tank occurs at the nineteenth paragraph of the Pennwalt case, which is reported beginning at page 931 of volume 833 of the F.2d Reporter series. If the user were to select representation  in the citing cases box , the display would be updated in the embodiment of to so that the citing paragraph in the Pennwalt case (paragraph 19) is displayed in the text box  as shown in . The nineteenth paragraph has been displayed because that is the paragraph that cites the previously displayed 6th paragraph of the Graver Tank case (see ). The citing cases box  is updated to contain representations of only those cases that cite the nineteenth paragraph of the Pennwalt case.","At  in , the \u201cfunction-way-result\u201d doctrine is set forth in paragraph six of the Graver Tank case. The \u201cfunction-way-result\u201d doctrine is a legal doctrine relating to whether devices perform \u201csubstantially the same function in substantially the same way to obtain the same result.\u201d See  in . In , the Graver Tank case has been cited at  by the Pennwalt case to support the \u201cfunction-way-result\u201d doctrine set forth at  in paragraph 19 of the Pennwalt case. Thus, paragraph 19 includes a citation to paragraph 6 of the Graver Tank case.","As has been described in connection with to , it is possible in the present invention to move directly from the cited case to the position in the citing case where the discussion of the cited case occurs. This ability to move directly from the cited document (Graver Tank) in the example shown to the citing document (Pennwalt) allows the researcher to easily, quickly, and efficiently evaluate the effect of the Pennwalt decision on the legal doctrine set forth in the Graver Tank. This is significant and quite useful because the validity of the law set forth in any case or legal writing can be greatly affected by cases that later evaluate the earlier case. Thus, legal researchers have a need for convenient and efficient access to those cases that discuss specific legal issues decided in any given case. The foregoing procedure satisfies this need, and greatly simplifies legal research.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"i":["e ","f ","f"],"b":["515","302","514","516","311"]},"The user can backtrack back to the Pennwalt decision by selecting the representation or button  shown in , which updates the text box  and the citing cases box  to appear just as that shown in . The previous case representation  is updated to correspond to the London case. Thus, the display is as shown in , which is differs from that in only with respect to representation .","From , the user again has the opportunity to select the representation for the Wilson case which also cites the paragraph 19 of the Pennwalt decision. By selecting the representation  in , the display is updated as shown in . Paragraph 36 of the Wilson decision is shown starting at the top of the text box  in . The citation to the Pennwalt decision in paragraph 36 of the Wilson case is indicated at . The \u201cfunction-way-result\u201d doctrine, for which the Pennwalt case is cited, is set forth at  of ","Unlike the London case, there are cases that cite the paragraph of the Wilson case which cites the Pennwalt case. Therefore, the citing cases box  in is not empty. When representation  in the citing cases box  is selected, the display is updated to that shown in ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0080","num":"0079"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 5"],"i":["i ","h","i. "],"b":["528","532","530"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 5"],"i":["a ","i"],"b":["5","601","602","601","603","604","605","602"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0082","num":"0081"},"figref":["FIGS. 7","FIGS. 5","FIG. 6","FIGS. 7"],"i":["a ","d ","a ","i ","a ","d "],"b":["7","5","7"]},"In , the Pennwalt decision is shown with paragraph 19 of that decision shown in the text box . Representations of two citing cases (London and Wilson), are shown in the citing cases box . Both London and Wilson cite paragraph 19 of the Pennwalt decision. When the user selects representation  in the citing cases box, the display is updated as shown in . The text box  in shows paragraph 12 (and 13 and 14) of the London decision. Unlike previous embodiments, however, the representations of the London and the Wilson cases remain in the citing cases box .","Retaining representations of citing cases in the citing cases box  allows the user to collect an list of relevant cases by traversing a number of linked cases. This is important because the user may otherwise have to remember or come back to the cases that he or she initially decides not to examine. This situation is illustrated in to , where it was necessary to backtrack from the London case () back to the Pennwalt case (), and then to the Wilson case () to display all of the cases that cite paragraph 19 of the Pennwalt case (see , and previous discussion). By retaining representations of citing cases, such a procedure is unnecessary. In , the Wilson case can be displayed at any time upon selection by the user of representation , even when Wilson does not cite the displayed document.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7","FIG. 7"],"i":["c ","b","c ","d","d"],"b":["703","311","311","704"]},"The displays of through have a clear button  that is used to clear the citing cases box  of all representations of citing cases. This permits the user to start collecting citing cases from scratch at any given point during research. to also show a highlight or marker  that indicates which representations have already been displayed. Highlighting in this manner allows the user to determine, by looking at each representation, those which he or she has already studied or already displayed. Such highlighting therefore provides a means by which the user will know when he or she has looked at all of the citing cases. Highlighting can be done as shown in by placing a marker on or next to each representation, or highlighting can also be done by changing the color of the representation, by changing the font, or by any other manner that makes it clear which cases have been viewed and which cases have not. Similarly, in another embodiment, it may be desirable to remove from the citing cases bin the cases that have already been viewed by the user.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0087","num":"0086"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 6","FIGS. 7","FIG. 8","FIG. 6","FIG. 6"],"i":["a ","d"],"b":["7","802","602"]},"Another embodiment of the present invention is shown in connection with to . This embodiment demonstrates that it is possible to keep a separate bin of citing cases in which to retain all of the cases that have previously been cited. For example, in , the first portion of the text of the Graver Tank case is shown. In , the user has scrolled through the text of the Graver Tank case for a few lines. There do not happen to be any cases that cite the displayed text of the or , so the citing cases box  is empty for in both situations.","In the user has scrolled down somewhat so that portions of paragraphs two through five of the Graver Tank case are displayed. The Pennwalt decision cites paragraph 4 of the Graver Tank case, so a representation of the Pennwalt case is displayed in the citing cases box , and also in the citing cases bin . When the user selects the representation  (or alternatively, ), the Pennwalt decision is displayed as shown in and the citing cases box  is emptied because no cases (in the database) cite paragraph 13 of the Pennwalt decision. The citing cases bin , however, retains the representation of the previously cited case.","The embodiment of to operates very similar to that of to , the difference being that all cases are retained in the citing cases bin , and the citing cases box  only contains those cases that cite the currently displayed text.","In another embodiment, a citing cases bin similar to that described in connection with to could contain all of the representations of cases that cite the displayed case, rather than previous representations. In other words, representations for all of the cases that cite the displayed case could be listed in the citing cases bin , but the citing cases box  could be used for only those representations of cases that cite the text displayed in the text box . This division or arrangement could effectively convey to the user which citing cases cite the displayed text, and which citing cases cite some other portion of the displayed case.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"figref":["FIGS. 10","FIG. 10"],"i":["a ","f ","a"],"b":["10","311","302","302","304","306"]},"The citation button  allows the user to bring up a window  such as that shown in . This window contains a citing cases box , which lists the representations of the cases citing the text displayed in the text box of . There are no cases that cite the text displayed in , so citing cases box  in is empty. However, this changes as the user scrolls down through the text in the manner shown in . The window  that is brought up upon selection of the button  in is shown in . The citing cases box  in shows includes a representation of the Pennwalt case. As in the embodiments described above, the user can select a representation in the citing cases box . When the representation  is selected in , the Pennwalt decision is displayed as shown in ",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0094","num":"0093"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIGS. 9"],"i":["f ","b","a ","d. "],"b":["1002","1002","311","911","9"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0095","num":"0094"},"figref":"FIGS. 10","i":["a ","f "],"b":["10","1008","1001","1002","1001"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIGS. 10","FIG. 10"],"i":["a ","f","a"],"b":["10","1101","1102","1008","1103","1104","1105","1101","1106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0097","num":"0096"},"figref":["FIGS. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIGS. 12"],"i":["a ","f ","a ","a ","a ","f"],"b":["12","1201","12"]},"Depending on the user's web browser and hardware, some or all of the web page  will be displayed in the browser display . The scroll bar  allows the user to scroll through the web page. shows the middle portion of the web page, which is displayed when the scroll box  is moved as shown.","When the scroll box  is moved to the bottom of the scroll bar, as shown in , the bottom of the web page is shown. The last line of page 42 of U.S. Reports volume 280 is shown at  in . Below this last line is a representation  of the Graver Tank case. This representation  indicates that the Graver Tank case cites the displayed page (i.e., page 42 of U.S. Reports volume 280). The representation  also indicates that the citation to page 42 of the Sanitary Refrigerator case is located at page 608 of U.S. Reports volume 339.","The representation  in is a link to another web page on the web server database. On the world wide web, these links are implemented with a hypertext protocol, such as HTML (HyperText Markup Language). As is well known in the art, selecting the representation  will retrieve another web page from the appropriate web server. This new web page  is shown in , and as can be seen, the web page  corresponds to page 608 of the Graver Tank case from volume 339 of the U.S. Reports.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0101","num":"0100"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"i":["e ","d ","e","e ","d","b"],"b":["1215","1216","1216","1218"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0102","num":"0101"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIGS. 12","FIG. 5","FIG. 5","FIG. 12"],"i":["f ","d","e","f ","d","d ","f"],"b":["1221","12","12","1221","1221"]},"In another embodiment, additional representations may be present at the bottom of the web page of . Such additional representations may correspond to cases that cite the displayed case generally or at other pages, and not specifically the displayed page. In other words, it is not necessary to limit the representations in the embodiment of to to only those cases that cite the displayed page of the document.","The world wide web implementation illustrated in connection with to is particularly attractive because setting up the database of documents and configuring the cross-references to citing cases can be relatively straight-forward. Determining which of the cases cite a particular page is done, for the most part, by simply searching the text of the cases for a specific citation to each U.S. Reports page. A representation for each case that cites a given page in the U.S. Reports is generated and incorporated in to the corresponding U.S. Reports web page. Thus, the citation system used by the court itself is used to determine the specific cross-references to and from the various cases, so no translation into other pages or paragraphs or line numbers or other units is necessary.","In other embodiments, where a citation system is used that is different from the system employed by the court, the court's citations must be translated into the citations used by the computerized research system. In other words, if a court cites cases by referencing a page number in a particular volume, and the research system uses a paragraph-based citation system (e.g., as in to ), the court's page number citations will be translated into corresponding paragraph number citations.","Although more tedious translation may be required, it is preferred that smaller units be used for the citation system. For example, a citation to a given page does not unequivocally identify which of the statements of law is being cited on that page. Therefore, not all of the citing cases for a particular page will be helpful to the researcher when he or she is interested in only one of the many statements of law occurring on the page. This problem is illustrated in and , where the Conroy decision cited the Wilson case for a proposition that was different than the function-way-result issue that was being reviewed in to . This occurred because paragraph 36 of the Wilson case contained more than one citable statement of law. A paragraph-based citation system is often better than a page-based citation system because paragraphs are usually smaller than pages and therefore contain fewer statements of law than do pages. But as shown in and , a paragraph-based citation system is not immune to the problem.","A citation system employing an even smaller unit, such as a sentence-based citation system, would virtually eliminate the foregoing problem. However, such a citation system requires a significant amount of tedious translation if citations are not already in a sentence-based form.","In another embodiment of the present invention, the representations in the citing cases box would not necessarily correspond to the displayed text, but would rather correspond to displayed text that is specifically selected (i.e., highlighted) by the user. Such an embodiment would be particularly appropriate for a sentence-based citation system, because the selection of one or more sentences would indicate which citing cases are of interest to the user. In other words, when the user has selected a specific section of the displayed portion of a document, this can be an indication that the user wishes to see only those citing cases that correspond to the selected portion. Thus, in an embodiment of the present invention, the citing cases box could contain representations of only those citing cases that cite the selected portion of the displayed text.","It is contemplated that the present invention will be implemented, in at least some embodiments, on a computer that employs software to carry out the functions described above. The software is stored on a data storage medium that is accessible by the computer in a manner known in the art. The effective implementation of the present invention is obviously not necessarily dependent on the type of storage medium employed, and the data storage medium could therefore be of any type (including, without limitation, optical, magnetic, or hardware-based storage media).","Although the present invention has been shown and described with respect to preferred embodiments, various changes and modifications that are obvious to a person skilled in the art to which the invention pertains, even if not shown or specifically described herein, are deemed to lie within the spirit and scope of the invention and the following claims. The present invention is not to be limited to any specific database implementation or to any specific network implementation. What is contemplated is any system appropriate for practicing the invention as set forth in the claims. The cases and corresponding citing documents described herein are merely for illustration purposes, and no invention-related significance is to be given to them other than that specifically mentioned herein. In the claims, any means-plus-function clauses are intended to encompass not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIGS. 1","i":["a ","d "],"b":"1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 3"],"i":["b ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 3","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIGS. 5","i":["c ","d "],"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"e "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 5","i":"g "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0034","num":"0033"},"figref":"FIGS. 5","i":["h ","i "],"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 5"],"i":["a ","i. "],"b":"5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0036","num":"0035"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0037","num":"0036"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"b "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0038","num":"0037"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":"FIG. 7","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIGS. 7"],"i":["a ","d. "],"b":"7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9"],"i":["b ","a "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"c "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":"FIG. 9","i":"d "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0046","num":"0045"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"i":["b ","a. "],"b":"1008"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"i":["c ","a. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"i":["d ","b ","c. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0049","num":"0048"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 10"],"i":["e ","d. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":"FIG. 10","i":"f "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIGS. 10"],"i":["a ","e. "],"b":"10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"figref":"FIG. 12","i":"a "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"i":["b ","a. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"i":["c ","a"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"i":["d ","c. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"i":["e ","d. "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 12"],"i":["f ","d"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
