---
title: Micro-circuit platform
abstract: A gas turbine engine component, such as a high pressure turbine blade, has an airfoil portion, a platform, and micro-circuits within the platform for cooling at least one of a platform edge adjacent the pressure side of the airfoil portion and the trailing edge of the platform. The micro-circuits include a first micro-circuit on a suction side of the airfoil and a second micro-circuit on a pressure side of the airfoil. The micro-circuits within the platform achieve high thermal convective efficiency, high film coverage, and high cooling effectiveness.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07097424&OS=07097424&RS=07097424
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07097424
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040203
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT(S)"],"p":["The Government of the United States of America may have rights in the present invention as a result of Contract No. F33615-02C-2202 awarded by the U.S. Department of the Air Force.","(a) Field of the Invention","The present invention relates to an improved turbine engine component having a micro-circuit for cooling the platform of said turbine engine component.","(b) Prior Art","Present configurations for the airfoil portion of a turbine blade do not use dedicated cooling to relieve platform distress, particularly at the edges. As a consequence, severe oxidation and erosion occurs at the edge of the platform. This oxidation and erosion can lead to cracking which affects the turbine blade structurally. Platform cracks tend to propagate towards the airfoil fillet and link up with other cracks originating from other high stress concentration areas on the airfoil and the platform. Enlarging the flow areas between adjacent platforms to deal with oxidation and erosion provides a way for parasitic leakage air to affect adversely the intended performance for the engine.","One way to resolve these limitations, without changing the airfoil design is to introduce more cooling flow which in turn affects the overall engine performance. Since this configuration is not acceptable, a new configuration design is required. Ideally, this new configuration should not increase the coolant flow for cooling.","Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a turbine engine component having a new configuration design which achieves high thermal convective efficiency, high film coverage, and high cooling effectiveness.","It is a further object of the present invention to provide a turbine engine component which in the region of the platform has a substantial reduction in metal temperature gradients and an increase in thermal fatigue life.","The foregoing objects are attained by the turbine engine component of the present invention.","In accordance with the present invention, a turbine engine component broadly comprises an airfoil portion having a pressure side and a suction side, a platform adjacent a root portion of the airfoil portion, the platform having a leading edge and a trailing edge, and","means within the platform for cooling at least one of a platform edge adjacent the pressure side of the airfoil portion and the trailing edge.","Other details of the micro-circuit platform of the present invention, as well as other objects and advantages attendant thereto, are set out in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals depict like elements.","Referring now to the drawings,  illustrates a turbine blade  to be used in a gas turbine engine. The turbine blade  has a fir tree  for joining the blade to a rotating member such as a disk, an airfoil portion  having a root portion  and a tip , and a platform  having an underside  and an upper surface . The airfoil portion  has a leading edge , a trailing edge , a suction side , and a pressure side . The platform  has a leading edge or front rim , a trailing edge or aft rim , a suction side edge , and a pressure side edge . The turbine blade  also has a pocket  adjacent the underside  of the platform . While , only shows one pocket , there is a corresponding pocket on the other side of the turbine blade . During operation, the pockets  typically receive cooling air which is bled from a portion of the engine such as the high pressure compressor.","Referring now to , a first micro-circuit  is provided within the platform  between the suction side  of the airfoil portion  and the platform trailing edge . The micro-circuit  is L-shaped, although it may have any other suitable configuration as needed. The micro-circuit  has a first leg  which extends between the suction side  and the suction side edge  and a second leg  which extends parallel to and along the trailing edge .","The micro-circuit  is provided with an inlet  which is located on the underside  of the platform  and which receives cooling air (engine bleed air) from a pocket . The micro-circuit  also has an outlet  which is located on the upper surface  of the platform  and which blows cooling air over the trailing edge . Preferably, the inlet  and the outlet  each take the form of a slot. The inlet  is preferably located about a distance from the front rim  of from 60 to 70% of the span of the platform  from its front rim  to its aft rim .","A cooling fluid passageway  extends from the inlet  to the outlet  and has a distance D. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the cooling fluid passageway  has a height H in the range of from 15 to 25 mils. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the D:H ratio should be 1 or higher. If the D:H ratio is lower than 1, the features used to provide cooling are less effective.","With regard to increasing cooling effectiveness, incorporated within the micro-circuit  and within the platform  are a plurality of pedestals . The pedestals  are preferably staggered so as to create a more turbulent flow which increases the cooling effectiveness.","At the outlet , the pressure should be at least 3% greater, and preferably at least 5% greater, than the sink pressure of the turbine engine component in this region.","Referring to , , and , a second micro-circuit  is formed within the platform . The second micro-circuit  is position between the pressure side  of the airfoil portion  and the pressure edge  of the platform. The second micro-circuit  has an inlet  on the underside  of the platform  and an outlet  which is on the upper surface  of the platform . Both the inlet  and the outlet  preferably take the form of a slot.","The inlet  preferably is located at a distance from the front rim  of about 33% to 50% of the span of the platform  from the front rim  to the aft rim . The micro-circuit  has a cooling fluid passageway  which extends a distance D from the inlet  to the outlet . Within the fluid passageway  is a means  for preventing hardware distress, which distress preventing means  preferably takes the form of an elongated island spaced from the sidewalls  and  of the fluid passageway . The distress preventing means  preferably has a leading edge  which is located from the inlet  by a distance which is 50\u201360% of the distance D. The thickness of the distress preventing means  should be about 40% of the width W of the fluid passageway . The distress preventing means may have any suitable length.","The outlet  is preferably oriented to blow cooling air onto the platform in a region adjacent the edge , particularly in the region of the fillet  where cracking may occur. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the fluid passageway  has a height H in the range of from 15 to 25 mils. As before, the ratio of D:H should be 1 or greater. Further, the pressure at the outlet  should be at least 3%, and preferably at least 5%, greater the sink pressure in the region of the outlet .","In order to achieve the objectives of the present invention, it is desirable that the pressure at both of the inlets  and  be in the range of 55 to 65% of the pressure at the engine compressor station (P) which has the point of highest pressure. It has been found that using the micro-circuits  and  of the present invention, one can achieve a pressure at the outlet  in the range of from 30% to 40% Pand a pressure at the outlet  in the range of 45% to 55% P. It has also been found that one can achieve convection efficiencies of 40% to 50%, which is far better than the convection efficiency of 10% to 15% which may be achieved with other designs not having the micro-circuits of the present invention.","Further advantages attendant to the present invention is a substantial reduction of metal temperature at the edges  and , thus increasing oxidation life by a factor of at least 2\u00d7 and eliminating platform edge distress.","In a preferred embodiment, the micro-circuits  and  have a constant metering section throughout to effectively reduce pressure from the microcircuit inlets  and  respectively to the microcircuit exits  and  respectively. The pedestals  in the micro-circuit  are preferably positioned so as to effectively maintain a constant coolant flow, which is preferably in the range of from 0.15% to 0.35% of the engine airflow at station .. As a result of the design of the micro-circuits , one can achieve high microcircuit cooling convective efficiency, reduce metal temperature gradients, and increase thermal fatigue life. The micro-circuits  and  also increase coolant heat pick-up. As a result, there is an increase in coolant temperature, which results in the increased convective efficiency.","The slot outlets  and  are beneficial in terms of providing high cooling film coverage. This enables the platform edges  and  to be protected from oxidation and erosion.","While the present invention has been described in the context of a turbine blade, the micro-circuit cooling of the present invention can be used in other gas turbine engine components which require a platform to be cooled.","It is apparent that there has been provided in accordance with the present invention a micro-circuit platform which fully satisfies the objects, means, and advantages set forth hereinbefore. While the present invention has been described in the context of specific embodiments thereof, other alternatives, modifications, and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art having read the foregoing description. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace those alternatives, modifications and variations as fall within the broad scope of the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["4","4"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"],"b":["6","6"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
