---
title: Optimized scheduling based on sensitivity data
abstract: A scheduling optimizer system, method and program product that analyzes a device for sensitivities, such as ESD sensitivities, and allows for modification of a floor schedule of the assembly unit of the device based on the sensitivity of the device while improving the overall performance of the assembly unit are disclosed. The scheduling optimizer analyzes sensitivity data for a device during operation of the assembly unit on the floor schedule. The floor schedule is then optimized based on the analyzed sensitivity data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301288&OS=08301288&RS=08301288
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08301288
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040616
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF INVENTION","SUMMARY OF INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION"],"p":["1. Technical Field","The invention relates generally to an assembly system and more specifically to a scheduling optimizer for a device, such as a semiconductor, assembly system.","2. Related Art","Devices, such as semiconductor components, Cathode-ray tubes, hard drives, and other electronic and non-electronic devices in a manufacturing environment may be sensitive to several different types of activities or events as they are being manufactured. These activities and other factors may produce a failure of the device, especially in the case that the device is an electronic component that may be impaired or destroyed from electrical overstress (EOS), electrostatic discharge (ESD) or latch-up.","EOS, ESD and latch-up are concerns in both internal and peripheral circuitry of a device. Specifically, ESD activities may influence, to name a few, off-chip drivers, ESD networks, transmitter and receiver networks, system clocks, phase lock loops, capacitors, decoupling capacitors and fill shapes. ESD activities may also influence DRAM memory, SRAM memory, gate arrays, and logic circuitry. Latch-up may occur between interactions within a given circuit, or between circuits. Latch-up may also be an inter-circuit or intra-circuit interaction.","Several activities or factors that may cause ESD, EOS or latch-up in electronic components include: the environment through which the device is routed; the shipping of the device; shipping container types; machines used to assemble the device; extent of handling of the device; device design; fabrication technology; device package style; and\/or tools used in the manufacturing of the device. Specifically, with environmental conditions, humidity influences the ESD discharge process and the level of potential risk to the device. Dry environments can lead to a higher ESD discharge event, leading to a higher risk to device failure. High humidity leads to a lower ESD discharge event. With shipping of the device, ESD failures may be influenced, for example, by the motion, material properties of the shipping containers and vehicles, and\/or the percentage of material, including the devices, within each shipping container. Electromagnetic emissions (EMI) noise can also induce ESD activities during shipping and handling.","Failures may occur at different stages of the manufacturing and assembly of the device prior to the final device development. ESD failures may occur on wafers, diced devices, and packaged and unpackaged components. With automated material handling systems (AMHS), the movement of assembly lots of devices between stocking points, bays, and individual tools may be done without human operators through a floor schedule. But even without human operators, the device may be sensitive to different types of machines or mechanisms with various levels of sensitivity at different points of the assembly of the device.","Currently, there are a variety of industry standard methods that are used for reducing ESD failure rates (e.g., humidity control) in the assembly of a device. Some of these methods may be selectively applied with the assembly of the device. Although these methods may reduce specific ESD sensitivities, other ESD sensitivities may occur with the assembly of the device that may not be noticed until the device or other devices fail. Consequently, modifications to the floor schedule of an assembly unit (e.g., the tools, systems, methods, etc., that are used or available for use in a manufacturing environment to assemble a device, or a group of devices, such as an assembly lot) that could reduce other occurring ESD sensitivities may not be made until many devices have failed, thus, negatively affecting the yield loss of the assembly.","Accordingly, a need has developed in the art for a system and method that analyzes a device for sensitivities, such as ESD sensitivities, and allows for modification of a floor schedule of an assembly unit based on the sensitivity of the device while improving the overall performance of the assembly unit.","The present invention provides a scheduling optimizer system, method and program product that analyzes a device for sensitivities, such as ESD sensitivities, and allows for modification of a floor schedule of an assembly unit based on the sensitivity of the device while improving the overall performance of the assembly unit.","Generally, a first aspect of the present invention is directed to a method comprising the steps of: providing a floor schedule of an assembly unit for a device; and optimizing the floor schedule based on sensitivity data during operation of the assembly unit on the floor schedule.","In addition, a second aspect of the present invention provides a computer program product comprising a computer useable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for optimizing a floor schedule of an assembly unit for a device, the program product comprising: program code configured to analyze sensitivity data for the a device during operation of the assembly unit on the floor schedule; and program code configured to optimize the floor schedule of the assembly unit based on the sensitivity data.","The present invention also provides an optimizer system comprising: a model analyzer for receiving sensitivity data for a device of an assembly unit, and analyzing the sensitivity data during operation of the assembly unit on a floor schedule; and a scheduling optimizer for optimizing the floor schedule of the assembly unit based on the analyzed sensitivity data.","The present invention also provides a method comprising the steps of: generating sensitivity data for a device of an assembly unit during operation of the assembly unit on a floor schedule; and receiving an optimal path data of the floor schedule that is generated based on the sensitivity data, wherein the optimal path data controls the path of the device through the assembly unit.","The present invention also provides a testing unit comprising: a sensitivity monitor for generating sensitivity data for a device; a reliability generator for generating reliability data having rules for the device; and a tool controller for invoking the sensitivity monitor and reliability generator and shutting down a testing tool of the testing unit.","The foregoing and other features of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular description of embodiments of the invention, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.","For convenience purposes only, the sections below are outlined with the following headings (parentheticals not included): i. Overview of Scheduling Optimizer Environment (); ii. Scheduling Optimizer System (); iii. Assembly Unit with Messaging System (); iv. Testing Unit with Messaging System (); v. Scheduling Optimizer with Messaging System (); and vi. Conclusion.","i. Overview of Scheduling Optimizer Environment","With reference to the accompanying drawings,  is a block diagram of an example of the environment of a scheduling optimizer system  in accordance with the present invention. In this example, the environment of scheduling optimizer system  includes an assembly unit , a testing unit , a messaging system  and scheduling optimizer system . The present invention will be mainly described relative to a semiconductor manufacturing setting. It should be recognized, however, that the teachings of the invention are suitable for a variety of different applications.","As aforementioned, in a manufacturing environment, a device (e.g., a semiconductor device, a Cathode-ray tube, hard-drive, electronics, other devices affected by ESD, or other devices that may experience a yield loss due to a sensitivity, etc.), or a group of devices (e.g., an assembly lot) are assembled through an assembly unit, such as assembly unit . An \u201cassembly unit\u201d  may include the tools, assemblies, processes, activities, systems, etc., used or available for use in a manufacturing environment to assemble a device (not shown), or assembly lot (not shown), or any of the aforementioned used for moving during manufacturing, storing, shipping or otherwise related to a device. Assembling a device may include putting together multiple discrete items to make a single item, or, in the case of wafer manufacturing, allowing a continuous assembly process. Examples of assembly unit  may include, but are not limited to: photolithography tools, testers, ion implant tools, furnaces, at least one tool used in the design and manufacturing of a semiconductor, or other devices that may be affected by ESD or other manufacturing sensitivities, such as hard-drives, Cathode-ray tubes, etc.; tools used in the moving or shipping of ESD sensitive devices; and processes or activities used in the manufacturing of a device, or a combination of any of the above.","Assembly unit  operates through a floor schedule. The floor schedule indicates the specific tools, activities, etc., that are to be used in the assembly of a device or assembly lot. The floor schedule of assembly unit  may be provided from scheduling optimizer system  through an automatic handling system (AMHS), which may be part of scheduling optimizer system ; through other sources; or may be generated as a device or assembly lot is being manufactured. The floor schedule may include, but is not limited to: the movement of assembly lots between stocking points, bays and individual tools, the current lot locations, reticle locations, lot status, tool status, alternate routes, recipes, etc. In the present invention, the floor schedule may be optimized to reduce sensitivities (e.g., ESD sensitivities) during the operation of assembly unit .","Assembly unit  sends assembly data  to scheduling optimizer system  and receives an optimal path data  from scheduling optimizer system . Assembly data  may include, for example, information of a tool and its position and function, and sensitivity of the tool, etc. (tool set data), and sensitivity data of the device (e.g., ESD sensitivity data, or similar data involving risk factors of the device). Optimal path data  also indicates whether a tool or activity, etc., of assembly unit  should be shut down.","Testing unit  tests for sensitivities as a device is being assembled by assembly unit . The sensitivities may be from the device, assembly unit , or testing unit . This information is generated by testing unit  and may be sent to scheduling optimizer system  during the operation of assembly unit  so that scheduling optimizer system  may optimize the floor schedule of assembly unit  before other devices are affected by the sensitivities. Thus, testing unit  includes the tools or activities that gather and generate \u201ctesting data\u201d  about the operation of assembly unit  and the information about the device or assembly lot assembly unit  is working on. Testing data  is sent to scheduling optimizer system  through messaging system . Testing data  may include reliability data (i.e., rules of what is allowable and what is not allowable for a device, tool or activity), and sensitivity data (which may be collected through direct charge or radio frequency) for a device, assembly lot and\/or testing unit . Optimal path data  may also be sent to testing unit  from scheduling optimizer system  to indicate whether a tool or activity, etc., of testing unit  needs to be shut down.","Scheduling optimizer system  receives testing data  from testing unit  and assembly data  from assembly unit . Using this data, scheduling optimizer system  may estimate certain factors (e.g., the yield risk factors of an assembly lot, the risk factors of the sensitivities, etc.) of the device or assembly lot to decide whether to optimize the floor schedule of assembly unit . Then, optimization of the floor schedule may be achieved, for example, through the shutting down of a tool in assembly unit  or in testing unit , and\/or the rerouting of the device to a different tool in assembly unit , indicated by optimal path data . Thus, scheduling optimizer system  may move a particular assembly lot to a different tool or activity of assembly unit  to reduce sensitivities caused from other tools or activities of assembly unit .","Messaging system  controls the movement of data between assembly unit , testing unit , and scheduling optimizer system . Real-time optimization of assembly unit  may occur because of messaging system . Hence, one aspect of the present invention is the real-time modification of the floor schedule of assembly unit  using scheduling optimizer system  and testing unit , thus allowing the avoidance or reduction of sensitivities during the assembly of a device or assembly lot.","ii. Scheduling Optimizer System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","10","12","14","17","16","18","20","24","20","24","12","22","14","12","24","20","12","24","20","14"]},"Messaging system  may represent one specific messaging system, such as a messaging and queuing (MQ) queue system, or several different messaging systems and\/or environments. Messaging system  may also comprise a single physical system or a plurality of systems distributed across one or more locations. Messaging system  () may be part of messaging system  or may be part of a separate messaging system that may work in conjunction with messaging system .","I\/O  may comprise any known type of input\/output device including a network system, modem, keyboard, mouse, scanner, voice recognition system, CRT, printer, disc drives, etc. Additional components, such as cache memory, communication systems, system software, etc., may also be incorporated into system .","As shown in , program product  may include model analyzer , scheduling optimizer , and other system components . Model analyzer  analyzes the sensitivity data received from assembly unit  () and\/or testing unit  (), and is discussed in greater detail with reference to  below. Scheduling optimizer  optimizes the floor schedule of assembly unit  () based on the analyzed sensitivity data.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIGS. 4 and 5"],"b":["30","372","374","376","378","380","382","30","30","380","30","372","372","374","376","378","374","376","378","382","380","374","376","44","44","10","22","30"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 4","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","52","60","10"]},"The second step  includes generating sensitivity data for assembly unit , testing unit , and the device (not shown) or assembly lot (not shown) being assembled by assembly unit . If sensitivity data is already present for a device, then this step may be omitted. Sensitivity data is generated from assembly unit  and testing unit  during the operation of the assembly unit  according to the floor schedule. One example of generating sensitivity data is through generating statistical \u201csensitivity models.\u201d Sensitivity models represent the ESD failures of a device and may be used to estimate the yield factors of an assembly lot to determine if the floor schedule of the assembly lot or device should be optimized. Some examples of sensitivity models that are well-known in the art include: human body models (HBM); machine models (MM); charges device models (CDM); transmission line pulse (TLP), very fast transmission line pulse (VF-TLP), and cable discharge models; and cassette models, etc. Sensitivity models such as HBM, MM and CDM may be obtained through a simple resistor\/capacitor circuit and are represented by the magnitude of the resulting waveform. These models may be stored in reliability and sensitivity data storage  (), in database  (), and\/or in data storage units on assembly unit  () and\/or testing unit  ().","The next step  includes sending the sensitivity data to scheduling optimizing system  using messaging system . Thus, scheduling optimizing system  receives the sensitivity data from assembly unit  and testing unit  during operation of assembly unit  on the floor schedule. The sensitivity data may be generated and received in real-time, thus allowing the floor schedule to be optimized based on current sensitivity data.","The next step  includes optimizing the floor schedule of the assembly unit based on the sensitivity data of the device during operation of the assembly unit on the floor schedule. In optimizing the floor schedule, the sensitivity data from assembly unit  and testing unit  is first analyzed through model analyzer  () of scheduling optimizer system  (). For example, model analyzer  () may analyze a known sensitivity model to estimate a second sensitivity model in the case that the data from the second sensitivity model is incomplete. Then, the floor schedule of assembly unit  is optimized with scheduling optimizer  () based on the analyzed data from model analyzer  () of scheduling optimizer system  (). That is, scheduling optimizer  may generate estimated yield factors for an assembly lot, and depending on the results, change the floor schedule to correspond to the higher assembly lot yield factors. The operation of model analyzer  will be described in more detail below relative to .","The optimal path data  of the floor schedule is then sent back to assembly unit  and testing unit  through messaging system , indicating whether a tool or activity should be shut down and\/or a device rerouted. Thus, testing unit  and assembly unit  receive the optimal path data  of the floor schedule based on the sensitivity data, wherein the optimal path data  controls the path of the device through the assembly unit.","Referring to , a data flow of scheduling optimizer system  () will now be described. As aforementioned, the parts of system  may be on the same physical unit, or may be positioned throughout several locations (e.g., in different geographical locations throughout the world). Messaging system  (), or a similar system, establishes confirmation of the transfer of data and updates of scheduling optimizer system  (). Since all the parts in real-time may experience different sensitivity based on ambient humidity at the different locations, ESD robustness of the device, and compliance of the individual tools and facility with ESD standards, etc., messaging system  () allows the real-time optimization of a floor schedule for optimal results of the assembly of devices.","As seen in , model analyzer  of scheduling optimizer system  () receives sensitivity data  from testing unit  (), and\/or assembly unit  (). Sensitivity data may be represented through different sensitivity models that are generated from testing unit  () and\/or assembly unit  (). Sensitivity models that represent sensitivity data for this example may include HBM, MM, CDM, TLP, VF-TLP, a cable discharge model, and\/or a cassette model, etc. In generating the sensitivity models, ESD activities may be simulated and tested using ESD testers (e.g., ESD tools, activities, etc., that test for ESD). A device may be tested to quantify the ESD sensitivity of the device. As a result, a sensitivity model, such as HBM, MM and CDM, is then generated which represents the device sensitivity for a given design pass. This sensitivity model may be a function of the technology, the design, the design pass, and\/or the tools at the time the device was formulated.","As mentioned above, the sensitivity data is then analyzed through model analyzer . Referring to , a flow diagram illustrating a method of operation of model analyzer  is discussed in further detail. As seen in , the first step  includes providing sensitivity data, such as HBM, MM, and CDM model data, to model analyzer  ().","The next step  includes determining if the risk parameter data of the sensitivity model data is complete (i.e., NO), or incomplete (i.e., YES). \u201cRisk parameter data\u201d may include parameters of the device that are at risk of ESD sensitivities (e.g., the amount of voltage a device can handle before the device will fail). If NO, the next step  includes passing risk parameter data to response algorithm  ().","If YES at step , the next step  includes determining if the associated correlation coefficients are available (i.e., YES) or not available (i.e., NO). \u201cCorrelation coefficients\u201d are coefficients of sensitivity model data that correlate between each other. Correlation coefficients indicate whether a correlation exists between the known model data and the unknown model data. That is, there is a correlation between some ESD models, such as HBM, MM, TLP and VF-TLP models, allowing the prediction of one model from the results of another model (e.g., the magnitude of MM is approximately 5-10 times larger than the magnitude of HBM).","If YES is the result at step , the next step  includes estimating risk parameters based on the correlation coefficients. Using correlating coefficients, communication may be expedited even in the case that there is a lack of data from other sensitivity models or assessments. One method for estimating risk parameters for the missing risk parameter data includes using the mean and standard deviation of the associated failure rate function for the device type, though it is to be understood that alternative risk models and associated parameters could be substituted to estimate risk parameters that are within the scope of the invention. Specifically, a statistical sensitivity model may be used for prediction of ESD failures based on the device and the manufacturing environment. Algorithms containing the cumulative distribution result may be used for risk assessment and yield loss. Assuming a Gaussian distribution of the risk parameters, a probability distribution function can be defined for the power-to-failure distribution, wherein the power-to-failure distribution indicates the range amount of power a device can handle before the device fails.","The power-to-failure distribution algorithm is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"f","msub":{"mi":["P","f"]}},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["P","f"]}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msqrt":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2062","mi":"\u03c0"}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["S","p"]}}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"exp","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mo":"\/","msup":{"mrow":{"mn":"2","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mfrac":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["P","f"]},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["\u2329","\u232a"],"msub":{"mi":["P","f"]}}},"msub":{"mi":["S","p"]}}}},"mn":"2"}}}}],"mo":"="}}},"br":{},"sub":["Pf","f","f ","p "]},"The standard deviation algorithm is as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["S","p"]},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"P","msub":{"mi":["f","i"]}},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["\u2329","\u232a"],"msub":{"mi":["P","f"]}}}},"mn":"2"}}}},{"mn":["1","2"],"mo":"\/"}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["p ","f "]},"The next step, step  includes passing the estimated risk parameters to response algorithm  ().","In some cases, sensitivity model data may be missing and correlation coefficients may not be available, or may be considered unreliable (i.e., step =NO). Thus, the next step  includes passing a null to response algorithm  (). If a null is passed to response algorithm  (), default risk parameters may be used that are conservative estimates based on reliability data across all device types.","Returning now to , the data from model analyzer , along with tool set data  and reliability data , is sent to response algorithm . Tool set data , which contains real-time data based on the sensitivities measurements for the set of tools that are available for assembly of assembly lots, is sent from assembly unit  (). Tool set data  may also include data with probability distribution parameters, which are parameters estimated from the probability distribution function formula used for model analyzer . Reliability data  of a device is sent from testing unit  ().","As aforementioned, response algorithm  is an algorithm used in scheduling optimizer  (). Using reliability data , response algorithm  may prioritize the inspection and testing of the device by testing unit  () for sensitivities. For example, inspection prioritization may be generated by response algorithm  and used by testing unit  () for the inspection of mask devices. Specifically, in a mask device, the risk of ESD sensitivities occurring between lines of a photomask and\/or reticle increases or decreases depending on several factors. These factors, which may be represented as reliability data , include: mask level; process; technology; and spacing distributions. Mask level prioritization may be based on the ESD sensitivity of a mask level (e.g., PC, M, M, M, RX, CA, etc.). ESD sensitivity of the mask level increases with larger shapes close together, so PC and metal levels are at more risk than CA shapes.","Different processes, such as a phase shift process or a non-phase shift process may increase or decrease the risk of ESD sensitivity in a mask and should be prioritized accordingly. Different process yields may also increase or decrease the risk of ESD sensitivity. In technology, newer technology will increase the risk of ESD sensitivity since the line-to-line space is decreased in mask manufacturing.","Spacing distributions prioritization may be based on the size of the space on a mask. For a first size of space, a first tool may be used since ESD damage may be more noticeable based on the discharge level. For a second size of space, a second tool may be used since the discharges may be at a lower level, but occur more frequently than the discharges with the first size of space. The first size of space is generally larger than the second size of space. The damage from the second size of space may be latent. Inspection of the first size of space and the second size of space may be prioritized based on the ESD damage patterns, which are distinct patterns representing the type of ESD discharge made in the mask.","Response algorithm  also generates estimated yield factors for the assembly lot on each of the tools that could potentially be used on the assembly lot based on the cumulative distribution function used to obtain probability P (P>P). For example, if there were three photolithography tools (A, B, C) that could be used for the production of assembly lot, then response algorithm  could compute yield percentages for each tool (e.g., 70%, 90%, and 80%). If the probability of yield loss on a particular tool is below the required reliability specification, then response algorithm  initiates an inhibit request through tool inhibit recommendations unit  to AMHS dispatcher . The inhibit request includes the tools, etc., to be inhibited (i.e., shut down). Furthermore, response algorithm  provides data to maintenance alert message unit  if the tools ESD measurement falls within a predefined range of values. Maintenance alert message unit  can then provide an alert message to maintenance scheduler , which schedules maintenance on tools based on associated priorities and target maintenance schedules.","Referring to , a flow diagram illustrates a method of operation of response algorithm . As seen in , the first step  includes providing the output of model analyzer  (), tool set data  (), and reliability data  () to response algorithm  (). The next step  includes determining if the risk parameters (i.e., the mean and standard derivation of Pand P) are available from model analyzer  () (i.e., YES), or not available (i.e., NO). If NO at step , the next step  includes passing a NULL response to AMHS dispatcher  ().","If YES is the result at step , the next step  includes determining if tool ESD measurement data is available (i.e., YES), or not available (i.e., NO). If NO is the result at step , the next step  includes passing a NULL response to AMHS dispatcher  ().","If YES is the result at step , the next step  includes computing the yield factors. That is, the cumulative distribution function is used to obtain the probability P (P>P). This result is sent to yield risk factors unit  () so that the tools to be used for assembly unit  () may be prioritized.","The next step  includes computing the set of tools to be inhibited for an assembly lot, which results are sent to tool inhibit recommendations unit  (). That is, if the probability of yield loss on a particular tool is above the required reliability specification, then response algorithm  () initiates an inhibit request through tool inhibit recommendations unit  () to AMHS dispatcher  (), which determines where to move the device and\/or assembly lot. The final step  includes estimating the productivity measure for the tools that may be used, which results are sent to maintenance alert messages unit  (). That is, response algorithm  () provides data to maintenance alert message unit  () if the tools ESD measurement falls within a predefined range of values. The data is used to indicate which tool or tools need servicing.","Returning now to , the resulting data of response algorithm  is sent to yield risk factors unit , tool inhibit recommendations unit  and maintenance alert messages unit . Data from yield risk factors unit  indicates relative preference for one tool compared to another with respect to a predefined tool prioritization method (e.g., one tool utilizing less voltage than another tool). Data from tool inhibit recommendations unit  may be used to block dispatching of the assembly lot to a specified tool or tools. Data from maintenance alert messages unit  provide an alert message to maintenance scheduler , which include: 1) the number of lots unserviceable by any tool; and 2) the average number of product types serviceable by tool i, for i=1, . . . , N, where N is the number of alternate tools that the assembly lot may be dispatched to. The first alert message provides a measure as to the importance of servicing assembly unit  (). The second alert message provides a measure as to the importance of servicing the tool with respect to tool efficiency (e.g., tool throughput). Thus, these measures may be used to prioritize the scheduling of ESD maintenance activities for assembly unit  ().","The resulting data of maintenance alert messages unit  is sent to maintenance scheduler . Maintenance scheduler  schedules ESD maintenance on tools based on associated priorities and target maintenance schedules.","The resulting data of yield risk factors unit  and tool inhibit recommendations unit  are sent to AMHS dispatcher . The AMHS dispatcher  decides where to move the assembly lot (e.g., to which available tool) depending on the data received from yield risk factors unit , tool inhibit recommendations unit , as well as other relevant data including: lot priority, critical ratio of the risk yield factors, setup times at the tool, current workload at each tool, etc., and optimizes the floor schedule accordingly through optimal path data.","The resulting data, which corresponds to the optimal path data, of AMHS dispatcher  and maintenance scheduler  are sent to assembly unit  (), testing unit  (), and any other unit that may be used in the assembly or maintenance of the system through messaging system  ().","iii. Assembly Unit with Messaging System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0075","num":"0074"},"figref":["FIGS. 8 and 9","FIG. 1"],"b":"60"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0076","num":"0075"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["60","66","62","64","68","90","70","76","74","72"]},"In operation, tool controller  invokes ESD sensitivity monitor  to generate the tool's ESD sensitivity data. ESD sensitivity data is stored in tool data storage , which contents are accessible to ESD sensitivity monitor , tool controller , MQ Get process  and MQ Put process . Tool controller  then invokes MQ Put process  to send the data to scheduling optimizer system  () through MQ send queue . In this specific example, MQ Put process  makes a direct MQ connection  to MQ queue manager  using direct MQ application programming interfaces (APIs) and sends the tool sensitivity data as an MQ message.","Tool controller  then invokes MQ Get process , which makes a direct MQ connection  to MQ queue manager  using direct MQAPIs and receives the optimal path data of the floor schedule as an MQ message through MQ receive queue . Tool controller  uses the optimal path data to determine if the tool is to continue to be in service or is to be removed from the manufacturing process (e.g., shut down).","Although in this specific example, ESD sensitivity monitor  is invoked by tool controller  to generate ESD sensitivity data, it is to be understood that ESD sensitivity monitor  may also run independently to generate the sensitivity data which is then independently sent to scheduling optimizer system  (). Similarly MQ Get process  could run independently to receive the optimal path data from scheduling optimizer system  (), and tool controller  could run independently to use this data.","Pseudo-code for the direct-MQ-manufacturing-tool-controller process of  is shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0081","num":"0080"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Begin-direct-MQ-manufacturing-tool-controller-process."]},{"entry":[{},"Set shutdown-flag to FALSE."]},{"entry":[{},"Load configuration information like log-filename, support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id, etc. from the configuration file."]},{"entry":[{},"Repeat"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke sensitivity-monitor process."]},{"entry":[{},"If sensitivity-monitor process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"Else"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke direct-MQ-Put process to send the tool-sensitivity"]},{"entry":[{},"data via MQ."]},{"entry":[{},"If direct-MQ-Put process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke direct-MQ-Get process to receive the optimal-"]},{"entry":[{},"path-information."]},{"entry":[{},"If direct-MQ-Get process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"Else"]},{"entry":[{},"If shutdown-information received"]},{"entry":[{},"Set shutdown-flag to TRUE."]},{"entry":[{},"Log the shutdown-information in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the shutdown-time to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Until shutdown-flag = TRUE"]},{"entry":[{},"End-direct-MQ-manufacturing-tool-controller-process."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Pseudo-code for the direct-MQ-Put process  is shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0083","num":"0082"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Begin-direct-MQ-Put-process."]},{"entry":[{},"Get direct-connection to MQ-queue-manager."]},{"entry":[{},"If direct-connection failed"]},{"entry":[{},"Return error."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Open the MQ-send-queue in send-mode."]},{"entry":[{},"If open MQ-send-queue failed"]},{"entry":[{},"Return error."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Send the data as an MQ message on the MQ-send-queue."]},{"entry":[{},"If sending of data failed"]},{"entry":[{},"Return error."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"End-direct-MQ-Put-process."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"Pseudo-code for the direct-MQ-Get process  is shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0085","num":"0084"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00003","num":"00003"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"28pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"189pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Begin-direct-MQ-Get-process."]},{"entry":[{},"Get direct-connection to MQ-queue-manager."]},{"entry":[{},"If direct-connection failed"]},{"entry":[{},"Return error."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Open the MQ-receive-queue in receive-mode."]},{"entry":[{},"If open MQ-receive-queue failed"]},{"entry":[{},"Return error."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Read the MQ message from the MQ-receive-queue."]},{"entry":[{},"If receiving of data failed"]},{"entry":[{},"Return error."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"End-direct-MQ-Get-process."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0086","num":"0085"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 8","FIGS. 8 and 9"],"b":["160","166","162","164","168","190","171","176","174","172","170","176","76"]},"The operations for assembly unit  of  are similar in scope to the operations for assembly unit  of  with the exception of \u201cclient\u201d MQ connections  and  being made between assembly unit  and scheduling optimizer system  () with MQ queue manager  instead of \u201cdirect\u201d MQ connections ,  (). Appropriate changes may also be made in the pseudo-code discussed in reference to  to allow for a MQ client connection instead of a direct MQ connection. A client MQ connection basically indicates that a connection is made to a separate physical structure using client APIs, whereas a direct MQ connection indicates that a connection is made on the same physical structure using direct APIs.","Also, as with the previous example, although tool controller  may invoke ESD sensitivity monitor  and MQ Get process , it is to be understood that ESD sensitivity monitor  may run independently to generate the sensitivity data, which is then independently sent to scheduling optimizer system  (). Similarly MQ Get process  may run independently to receive the optimal path data from scheduling optimizer system  (), and tool controller  could run independently to use this data.","iv. Testing Unit with Messaging System  is the block diagram for a specific example of testing unit  (). As with , although a specific example is shown for testing unit , other examples may be used, (e.g., portions of testing unit  that may be on separate physical units, see ) that are within the scope of the invention.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"figref":"FIG. 10","b":["250","254","252","258","264","260","266","256","262","268","250","256","266","260","286","282","256"]},"Data storage  is accessible to ESD sensitivity monitor , tool controller , reliability data generator , MQ Get process  and MQ Put process . Although not shown, MQ queue manager , MQ receive queue  and MQ send queue  may be on a separate physical unit than the rest of testing unit . Thus, one MQ queue manager may be used for several testing tools, or testing units, as opposed to each tool having its own MQ queue manager . The connections would be similar to the connections for , except instead of direct MQ connections  and  to MQ queue manager , client MQ connections would be made to MQ queue manager .","In operation, tool controller  invokes ESD sensitivity monitor  to generate the tool's ESD sensitivity data. Tool controller  also invokes the product's reliability data generator  to generate the product's reliability data. The tool's ESD sensitivity data and the product's reliability data may be stored in data storage . Tool controller  then invokes MQ Put process  to send the sensitivity and reliability data to scheduling optimizer system  () through MQ send queue . In this specific example, MQ Put process  makes a direct MQ connection  to MQ queue manager  using direct MQ APIs and sends the sensitivity and reliability data as an MQ message.","Tool controller  then invokes MQ Get process , which makes a direct MQ connection  to MQ queue manager  using direct MQAPIs and receives the optimal path data of the floor schedule as an MQ message through MQ receive queue . Tool controller  uses the optimal path data to determine if the tool is to continue to be in service or is to be removed from the manufacturing process (e.g., shut down).","Although in this specific example, ESD sensitivity monitor  is invoked by tool controller  to generate ESD sensitivity data, it is to be understood that ESD sensitivity monitor  may also run independently to generate the sensitivity data which is then independently sent to scheduling optimizer system  (). Similarly MQ Get process  could run independently to receive the optimal path data from scheduling optimizer system  (), and tool controller  could run independently to use this data.","Pseudo-code for the direct-MQ-testing-tool-controller process of  is shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0096","num":"0095"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00004","num":"00004"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Begin-direct-MQ-testing-tool-controller-process."]},{"entry":[{},"Set shutdown-flag to FALSE."]},{"entry":[{},"Load configuration information like log-filename, support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id, etc. from the configuration file."]},{"entry":[{},"Repeat"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke sensitivity-monitor process."]},{"entry":[{},"If sensitivity-monitor process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"Else"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke test-data-generator process."]},{"entry":[{},"If test-data-generator process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"Else"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke direct-MQ-Put process to send the tool-sensitivity"]},{"entry":[{},"and device-reliability data via MQ."]},{"entry":[{},"If direct-MQ-Put process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke direct-MQ-Get process to receive the optimal-"]},{"entry":[{},"path-information."]},{"entry":[{},"If direct-MQ-Get process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"Else"]},{"entry":[{},"If shutdown-information received"]},{"entry":[{},"Set shutdown-flag to TRUE."]},{"entry":[{},"Log the shutdown-information in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the shutdown-time to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Until shutdown-flag=TRUE"]},{"entry":[{},"End-direct-MQ-testing-tool-controller-process."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"As aforementioned, a client MQ connection may be made instead of a direct MQ connection. Thus appropriate changes may be made in the pseudo-code to allow for this.","v. Scheduling Optimizer with Messaging System",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 10"],"b":["17","330","324","10","330","30","30","324","20","24","20","24","314","322","17","324","330","324","318","316","320","326","318","326","336","340","318","324","330","314","322","318","316","320","324","336","340","318","318"]},"In operation, scheduling optimizer  invokes MQ Get process  to receive sensitivity and device reliability data from assembly unit  () and testing unit  (). Sensitivity and device reliability data is received through a client MQ connection  to MQ queue manager  and stored in reliability and sensitivity data storage . An optimal floor schedule is determined through scheduling optimizer system  () and is defined through optimal path data path. Scheduling optimizer  invokes MQ Put process  to send the optimal path data to assembly unit  () and testing unit  () through client MQ connection  to MQ queue manager .","Although in this specific example, MQ Get process  is invoked by scheduling optimizer  to receive sensitivity and reliability data, it is to be understood that MQ Get process  may also run independently to receive sensitivity and reliability data. Similarly the scheduling optimizer  could run independently to determine the optimal manufacturing path and the MQ Put process  could run independently to send the optimal path data.","Pseudo-code for the client-MQ-scheduling-optimizer  process is shown below:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0103","num":"0102"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00005","num":"00005"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"21pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"196pt","align":"left"}}],"thead":{"row":{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Begin-client-MQ-scheduling-optimizer-process."]},{"entry":[{},"Set shutdown-flag to FALSE."]},{"entry":[{},"Load configuration information like log-filename, support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id, etc. from the configuration file."]},{"entry":[{},"Repeat"]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke client-MQ-Get process to receive the tool-"]},{"entry":[{},"sensitivity and device-reliability data via MQ."]},{"entry":[{},"If client-MQ-Get process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"Else"]},{"entry":[{},"Determine the optimal-path."]},{"entry":[{},"Invoke client-MQ-Put process to send the optimal-"]},{"entry":[{},"path-information."]},{"entry":[{},"If client-MQ-Put process returns error"]},{"entry":[{},"Log the error in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the error to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"If administrator has asked for optimizer to terminate"]},{"entry":[{},"Set shutdown-flag to TRUE."]},{"entry":[{},"Log the shutdown-information in log-file."]},{"entry":[{},"Send an email-alert about the shutdown-time to the support-"]},{"entry":[{},"email-id."]},{"entry":[{},"End-if"]},{"entry":[{},"Until shutdown-flag=TRUE"]},{"entry":[{},"End-client-MQ-scheduling-optimizer-process."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}}}},"As aforementioned, a direct MQ connection may be made instead of a client MQ connection. Thus, appropriate changes may be made in the pseudo-code to allow for this.","vi. Conclusion","The above-described invention provides a scheduling optimizer system, program product and method that analyzes a device or assembly lot for sensitivities, such as ESD sensitivities, analyzes the sensitivity of assembly lots relative to the tool sensitivity, and allows for modification of a floor schedule of the assembly unit based on the sensitivity of the device while improving the overall performance of the assembly unit.","Although ESD sensitivity is specifically discussed, the above-described invention may be applied to other device reliability sensitivities and activities, and is not limited to such. These activities may include latch-up, hot electron, mobile ion contamination, negative bias threshold instability (NBTI), other reliability mechanism, etc. This invention is also applicable to many technologies, such as semiconductors, magnetic recording (MR) industry, micromechanical machines (MEMs), and other nano-structures, etc.","It will be understood that the method steps discussed above are performed by a processor, such as CPU  () of system  (), executing instructions of program product  () stored in memory. It is understood that the various devices, modules, mechanisms and systems described herein may be realized in hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software, and may be compartmentalized other than as shown. They may be implemented by any type of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein. A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general-purpose computer system with a computer program that, when loaded and executed, controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Alternatively, a specific use computer, containing specialized hardware for carrying out one or more of the functional tasks of the invention could be utilized. The present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product, which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods and functions described herein, and which\u2014when loaded in a computer system\u2014is able to carry out these methods and functions. Computer program, software program, program, program product, or software, in the present context mean any expression, in any language, code or notation, of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after the following: (a) conversion to another language, code or notation; and\/or (b) reproduction in a different material form.","While this invention has been described in conjunction with the specific embodiments outlined above, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the embodiments of the invention as set forth above are intended to be illustrative, not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":["Embodiments of the present invention will hereinafter be described in conjunction with the appended drawings, where like designations denote like elements, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIGS. 2 and 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 3"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":["FIGS. 8 and 9","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 2"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
