---
title: End pumped slab laser cavity
abstract: The End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity incorporates all optical components required for a short-pulse laser. These optical components are ‘locked’ into alignment forming an optical laser cavity for diode laser or flash lamp pumping. The optical laser cavity never needs optical alignment after it is fabricated. The cavity is configured for optimal absorbtion for diode laser end-pumping over broad temperature ranges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07039087&OS=07039087&RS=07039087
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Department of the Army
number: 07039087
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040513
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, sold, imported, and\/or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.","This invention relates to laser range finders and laser designators.","Laser range finders and laser designators are becoming an increasingly vital component in high precision targeting engagements. The precise and accurate range to target information is an essential variable to the fire control equation of all future soldier weapons. This information is easily, and timely, provided by laser range finders. The laser designator operator surgically selects a target by placing the high-energy laser beam onto the target.","Unfortunately, current fielded laser systems are bulky, heavy and expensive. These laser systems were developed with twenty year old laser technology.","Accordingly, one object of the present invention is to provide an end pumped slab laser cavity for a laser range finder and laser designator that minimizes the size, weight, performance and production costs of the laser range finder and laser designator. To meet this object, a laser diode pump produces laser outputs into an Nd:YAG folded cavity. The output from Nd:YAG folded cavity  passes through a passive\/active Q-switch  and then, through an optical parametric oscillator . The components of this laser range finder or laser designator are optically fused together into a single block. The end result is an eye safe 1.5 \u03bc output for laser designation or range finding.","This invention proposes a new concept, the End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity, which makes the development\/fabrication of a very compact laser range finder or designator feasible.","The present invention includes several optical components fused into one \u2018block\u2019 or pseudo-monolithic laser cavity. It is termed \u201cpseudo-monolithic\u201d since many components are incorporated into the structure. The proposed invention is named \u2018End Pumped Slab\u2019 because of its design is intended for laser diode pumping from the end, even though for higher energy diode pumping from the sides is possible.  depicts the components of the End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity. As shown in  a laser diode pump  produces laser outputs to an Nd:YAG folded cavity . The output from Nd:YAG folded cavity  passes through a passive\/active Q-switch  and then, through an optical parametric oscillator . The end result is an eye safe 1.5 \u03bc output.","The optical components described above are bonded (diffusion or optical epoxy) to form one optical \u2018block\u2019. All components are pre-aligned during the crystal manufacturing process to form the optical laser cavity. The polarization coating at one of the turn angles is required only if linearly polarized output is required for pumping an external optical parametric oscillator (OPO) cavity  (e.g. to the 1.5 micron eye safe wavelength) or if an active, polarization dependent, Q-switch is used for precise timing of the laser output pulse. This polarization is essential for effective OPO conversion and active Q-switch  operation. The active material is Nd:YAG. The Q-switch  can be an optical passive device made from chromium YAG if critical pulse firing timing is not required. This component can also be coated with the proper optical layers for the laser cavity's output coupler.","All the optical components previously described have been fabricated in YAG-base materials. This is not necessary but desired in that the End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity has a uniform coefficient of thermal expansion and the Nd:YAG material is relatively inexpensive and available. This leads to robust\/dependable operation over the wide range of thermal conditions the laser must operate. Other materials may be used in the End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity if conditions allow. For example, Nd:YVO4, Nd:YLF, Nd:YAP, etc. are all candidate materials that may be used in End Pumped Slab laser cavity configuration of the present invention.","The present invention simplifies the producibility of a laser range finder system. The fabrication of the End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity can be done using batch processing. Large rectangular, pre-coated optical components can be joined together, optically aligned to form the laser cavity and then sliced to produce modules. This batch process can greatly reduce the overall fabrication costs of the End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity module. The End Pumped Slab module is ultra-compact. Its overall size is approximately 15 mm (L)\u00d710 mm (W)\u00d75 mm (H) as depicted in . This extremely small size of a laser cavity allows for construction of a very compact, and lightweight, laser range finder.  also shows the High-Reflection Coating (HR), the Polarized High-Reflection Coating (Pol-HR), and the Anti-Reflection Coating (AR) specifications for one example of the present invention. A standard Nd:YAG Crystal has the following properties. Such crystals can be found from such companies as Casix\u2122.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"1. Basic Properties (1.0 atm % Nd doped)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"2"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"119pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"98pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":["Chemical Formula","Nd: YAlO"]},{"entry":["Crystal Structure","Cubic"]},{"entry":["Lattice Constants","12.01 \u212b"]},{"entry":["Concentration","~1.2 \u00d7 10cm"]},{"entry":["Melting Point","1970\u00b0 C."]},{"entry":["Density","4.56 g\/cm"]},{"entry":["Mohs Hardness","8.5"]},{"entry":["Refractive Index","1.82"]},{"entry":["Thermal Expansion Coefficient","7.8 \u00d7 10\/K [111], 0\u2013250\u00b0 C."]},{"entry":["Thermal Conductivity","14 W\/m \/K @ 20\u00b0 C.,"]},{"entry":[{},"10.5 W \/m \/K @ 100\u00b0 C."]},{"entry":["Lasing Wavelength","1064 nm"]},{"entry":["Stimulated Emission Cross Section","2.8 \u00d7 10cm"]},{"entry":["Relaxation Time of Terminal Lasing","30 ns"]},{"entry":"Level"},{"entry":["Radiative Lifetime","550 \u03bcs"]},{"entry":["Spontaneous Fluorescence","230 \u03bcs"]},{"entry":["Loss Coefficient","0.003 cm@ 1064 nm"]},{"entry":["Effective Emission Cross Section","2.8 \u00d7 10cm"]},{"entry":["Pump Wavelength","807.5 nm"]},{"entry":["Absorption band at pump wavelength","1 nm"]},{"entry":["Linewidth","0.6 nm"]},{"entry":["Polarized Emission","Unpolarized"]},{"entry":["Thermal Birefringence","High"]},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"2","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00002","num":"00002"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"2. Standard Products specification"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":{"entry":{}}}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Dopant Concentration (atomic %): 0.9%~1.1%"},{"entry":"Orientation: <111> crystalline direction (\u00c05\u00e3)"},{"entry":"Wavefront distortion: \u03bb\/8 per inch,"},{"entry":"measured by a double-pass interferometer @"},{"entry":"633 nm"},{"entry":"Extinction Ratio:"},{"entry":"Rods with diameter from 3 mm to 6.35 mm and with length to 100 mm: >"},{"entry":"30 dB"},{"entry":"Rods with diameter from 7 mm to 10 mm and with length to 100 mm: >"},{"entry":"28 dB"},{"entry":"Dimension Tolerances"},{"entry":"Diameter: \u00c00.025 mm (\u00c00.001\u2033), Length: \u00c00.5 mm (\u00c00.02\u2033)"},{"entry":"Barrel Finish: 50 80 micro-inch (RMS), grooved rod barrel are also"},{"entry":"available"},{"entry":"Ends Finish:"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"3"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"70pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"133pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Surface Figure:","<\u03bb\/10 @ 633 nm"]},{"entry":[{},"Parallelism:","<10 arc seconds"]},{"entry":[{},"Surface quality:","<5 arc minutes"]},{"entry":[{},"Clear Aperture:",">10\/5 Scratch \/ Digper MIL-O-1380A"]},{"entry":[{},"Chamfer:","<0.1 mm @ 45\u00e3"]},{"entry":[{},"Clear Aperture:","extend over the entire faces to the chambered"]},{"entry":[{},{},"edges"]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"left"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":"Anti-Reflection Coating:"},{"entry":"Single layer MgF2 coating with high damage"},{"entry":"threshold for high power laser"},{"entry":"operation. Reflectivity R < 0.25% @ 1064 nm per surface."},{"entry":"Damage threshold"},{"entry":"over 750 MW\/cm2 @ 1064 nm, 10 ns and 10 HZ."},{"entry":"High-Reflection Coating:"},{"entry":"Standard HR coating with R > 99.8% @ 1064 nm and"},{"entry":"R < 5% @ 808 nm can"},{"entry":"be performed. Other HR coatings, such as HR @ 1064\/532 nm,"},{"entry":"HR @ 946 nm,"},{"entry":"HR 1319 nm and other wavelengths are also available."},{"entry":"Standard products in-stock:"},{"entry":"The standard Nd: YAG laser rod has dimensions"},{"entry":"of ?3 \u00d7 5 mm and ?4 \u00d7 50"},{"entry":"mm with AR or HR- coating for Diode Pumped Solid State Lasers (DPSS)"},{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}}]}}]}}},"Of course for the present invention, these standard performance specifications would have to be changed in accordance with the sample specifications given in . However, such crystals are available and may be adapted to accommodate the present invention.","The End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity is a module that requires none of the labor extensive alignment procedures as current laser range finders\/designators. No optical holders have to be fabricated, no complex engineering is required to design the optical cavity, and no precise laser cavity alignment(s) are required. Therefore, production labor and material costs are greatly reduced.","The End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity is a modular component. The modularity lends to ease of design for different pump sources. It can be incorporated in a flash lamp pumped or laser diode pumped system. The energy of the pump source (e.g. drive electronics) can be tailored for the specific mission (e.g. long range vs. medium range performance) without forcing all of the systems to meet the high demand requirements of the few.","In particular, the cavity is configured for optimal absorbtion for diode laser pumping over broad temperature ranges. The End Pumped Slab cavity is designed to be pumped by laser diode arrays on either side of the \u201cplate.\u201d The width of the cavity has been designed to absorb nearly all of the laser diode pump output.","The present invention may be used as the laser source in very compact laser range finders or laser designators. It can be coupled with an OPO cavity for generation of eye safe laser output for eye safe laser range finding. These laser range finders have both military and commercial applications. The compact design of the End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity also lends itself to placement in other laser-based portable\/hand-held devices. These may be medical devices, industrial tools or scientific equipment that would benefit from the size\/weight reduction, dependable performance, and low cost of the End Pumped Slab Laser Cavity."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["These and other objects of the invention will become readily apparent in light of the Detailed Description Of The Invention and the attached drawings wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
