---
title: Metal/dielectric multilayer microdischarge devices and arrays
abstract: A microdischarge device that includes one or more electrodes encapsulated in a nanoporous dielectric. The devices include a first electrode encapsulated in the nanoporous dielectric and a second electrode that may also be encapsulated with the dielectric. The electrodes are configured to ignite a microdischarge in a microcavity when an AC or a pulsed DC excitation potential is applied between the first and second electrodes. The devices include linear and planar arrays of microdischarge devices. The microcavities in the planar arrays may be selectively excited for display applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07573202&OS=07573202&RS=07573202
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07573202
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041004
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This invention was made with Government assistance under U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research grant Nos. F49620-00-1-0391 and F49620-03-1-0391. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","The present invention relates to microdischarge devices and, in particular, to microdischarge devices and arrays including nanoporous dielectric-encapsulated electrodes.","Microplasma (microdischarge) devices have been under development for almost a decade and devices having microcavities as small as 10 \u03bcm have been fabricated. Arrays of microplasma devices as large as 4*10pixels in \u02dc4 cmof chip area, for a packing density of 10pixels per cm, have been fabricated. Furthermore, applications of these devices in areas as diverse as photodetection in the visible and ultraviolet, environmental sensing, and plasma etching of semiconductors have been demonstrated and several are currently being explored for commercial potential. Many of the microplasma devices reported to date have been driven by DC voltages and have incorporated dielectric films of essentially homogeneous materials.","Regardless of the application envisioned for microplasma devices, the success of this technology will hinge on several factors, of which the most important are manufacturing cost, lifetime, and radiant efficiency. A method of device fabrication that addresses at least the first two of these factors is, therefore, highly desirable.","In a first embodiment of the invention, a microdischarge device is provided that includes a first electrode encapsulated in a dielectric, which may be a nanoporous dielectric film. A second electrode is provided which may also be encapsulated with a dielectric. The electrodes are configured to ignite a discharge in a microcavity when a time-varying (an AC, RF, bipolar or a pulsed DC, etc.) potential is applied between the electrodes. In specific embodiments of the invention, the second electrode may be a screen covering the microcavity opening and the microcavity may be closed at one end. In some embodiments of the invention, the second electrode may be in direct contact with the first electrode. In other embodiments, a gap separates the electrodes.","In another embodiment of the invention, a microdischarge device array is provided. The array includes a plurality of electrode pairs. Each electrode pair includes a first electrode and a second electrode with each electrode comprising a metal encapsulated with a dielectric. Each pair of electrodes is configured to ignite a discharge in a corresponding microcavity when a time-varying potential is applied between the electrodes. In a specific embodiment of the invention, the electrode pairs are stacked, forming a linear array of microdischarge devices.","In a further embodiment of the invention, a microdischarge device array is provided that includes a planar electrode array including a plurality of metal electrodes encapsulated in a dielectric. The encapsulated electrode array forms a plurality of microcavities. A common electrode is configured to ignite a discharge in each microcavity when a potential is applied between the common electrode and the electrode array. In some embodiments, the common electrode is transparent to the light emitted by the array.","In another embodiment of the invention, a microdischarge device array for display applications is provided. The array includes a first electrode comprising a metal encapsulated with a first dielectric; a plurality of microcavities associated with the first electrode; a second electrode comprising a metal encapsulated with a second dielectric; and a plurality of microcavities associated with the second electrode. The first electrode and the second electrode are configured to ignite a microdischarge in a given microcavity when a potential is applied between the first and second electrode but only if the given microcavity is a member of both the first plurality of microcavities and the second plurality of microcavities.","In another embodiment of the invention, a cylindrical microdischarge device array is provided that includes a metal cylinder (tube). A plurality of microcavities is formed on the inner surface of the cylinder which is then encapsulated with a dielectric. An electrode is disposed along the center axis of the cylinder and the electrode is configured to ignite a discharge in each microcavity when a time-varying potential is applied between the electrode and the cylinder. Toxic gas remediation may be effected by introducing a flow of gas along the center electrode. A potential is applied between the center electrode and the cylinder to ignite a discharge in each microcavity. The discharges dissociate the impurities in the gas as the gas flows through the microcavities. In other embodiments of the invention, this structure may be used for photochemical treatment of gases flowing through the cylinder. It may also serve as a gain medium for a laser.","Embodiments of the invention introduce microdischarge device array geometries and structures for the purpose of scaling the active length and\/or area that is required for applications in medicine and photopolymerization (photoprocessing of materials), for example.","The present invention may advantageously employ nanoporous dielectrics such as those described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10\/958,174, filed on even date herewith, entitled \u201cMicrodischarge Devices with Encapsulated Electrodes\u201d which is incorporated herein by reference.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":["FIGS. 1A-1F","FIG. 1A","FIG. 1B","FIG. 1C","FIG. 1D","FIG. 1E","FIGS. 1A to 1E"],"b":["20","10","20","25","20","45","40","40","45"],"sub":["2","3 ","2","3 "]},"In various embodiments of the invention, microdischarge devices are provided that include one or more electrodes encapsulated in a nanoporous dielectric. The nanoporous dielectric may be formed, for example without limitation, by a wet chemical process, as described above. Thus, a variety of device structures may be fabricated economically. These devices include a first electrode encapsulated in the dielectric and a second electrode that may also be encapsulated with the dielectric of the first electrode or another dielectric. The electrodes are configured to ignite a microdischarge in a microcavity (i.e., a cavity having a characteristic dimension (diameter, length of a rectangle, etc.) approximately 500 \u03bcm or less) when a time-varying (AC, pulsed DC, etc.) excitation potential is applied between the first and second electrodes. The encapsulated electrodes are not exposed to the microplasma discharge, facilitating a longer electrode life.","A microdischarge device  is shown in cross-section in , according to a first embodiment of the invention. A first electrode  is formed from a metal , such as aluminum, encapsulated with a dielectric . The dielectric may be a nanoporous dielectric, such as AlO. A second electrode  is placed adjacent to the first electrode and a microcavity  of diameter \u201cd\u201d is formed by one of a variety of well-known processes such as microdrilling, laser machining, chemical etching, etc. The microcavity extends through electrode  but does not necessarily extend completely through electrode . The diameter d typically may be on the order of 1 to 500 microns. Furthermore, the cavity cross-section need not be circular, but can assume a variety of shapes. The second electrode can be any conducting material including metals, indium tin oxide (\u201cITO\u201d), doped crystalline or polycrystalline semiconductors or even a polymer. An alternating-current (\u201cAC\u201d) or other time-varying voltage  applied between the first electrode and the second electrode will ignite a microplasma in the microcavity  if a discharge gas or vapor of the proper pressure is present and the peak voltage is sufficient.  shows a top view of the device . While the microcavity  shown is a cylinder, such microcavities are not limited to cylinders and other shapes and aspect ratios are possible. The metal  in the first electrode advantageously does not come in contact with the microplasma, facilitating a longer electrode life.","In another related embodiment of the invention , as shown in cross-section in , the second electrode may be a metal screen  that covers, at least partially, the microcavity . The screen electrode may also be encapsulated with a nanoporous dielectric (as shown) if the metal is chosen properly (e.g., Al, W Zr, etc.).  shows a top-down (plan) view of the device.","In a further related embodiment  of the invention, as shown in cross-section in , one end  of the microcavity discharge channel  is closed. The dielectric \u201ccap\u201d  can serve to reflect light of specified wavelengths by designing a photonic band gap structure into the dielectric  or the dielectric  at the base of the microcavity  can be coated with one or more reflective materials. If the dielectric is transparent in the spectral region of interest, the reflective layers  may be applied to the outside of the dielectric .","In other embodiments of the invention, both electrodes of the microdischarge device may be encapsulated with a dielectric.  shows a device  with a structure similar to the device of , except that the second metal electrode  is encapsulated with a dielectric  forming a second encapsulated electrode . In , electrode  and electrode  are in direct physical contact. In other embodiments of the invention, such as that shown in , microdischarge devices  may be formed where the electrode pairs ,  are stacked with a gap between the dielectric layers for adjacent electrodes. The number of electrode pairs that may be stacked is a matter of design choice and linear arrays  of microplasmas having an extended length may be achieved, as illustrated in . Such stacked devices can advantageously provide increased intensity of light emission and are suitable for realizing a laser by placing mirrors at either end of the microchannel . Alternatively, the structure of  may be used in other applications in which a plasma column of extended length is valuable.","In another embodiment of the invention, as shown in cross-section in , a microplasma device array with a planar geometry  is formed. In this embodiment, a metal electrode array  defining the individual \u201cpixel\u201d size is encapsulated in a dielectric . The electrode array  can be economically fabricated by laser micromachining in a metal substrate or, alternatively, by wet or plasma etching. Once the electrode array is formed, the dielectric  can be deposited over the entire array by a wet chemical process. All of the pixels in the array may share a common transparent electrode , such as ITO on glass, quartz or sapphire. Applying a potential  between the electrodes ignites discharges in the microcavities . Light emitted from the microdischarges can escape through the common electrode  or out the other end of the microcavities . Alternatively, the common electrode  need not be transparent but can be a dielectric-encapsulated metal electrode as described earlier. Light can then be extracted out of the end of the microcavities away from the electrode .","In a further embodiment of the invention, as shown in , a microdischarge array  can be formed that permits individual microcavities (pixels) to be selectively excited. Pixels  of the desired shape can be fabricated in a dielectric-encapsulated electrode  of extended length. Below (or above) this first electrode  is a second dielectric encapsulated electrode  that may also be of extended length. With the application of a voltage Vto the first electrode  and no voltage (V=0) to the second electrode , the pixel at the intersection of the first and second electrodes will not ignite. However, if the proper voltage Vis also applied to the second electrode, then only the pixel located at the intersection of both electrodes will ignite, emitting light . Other pixels in the array will remain dark. In this way, large arrays of pixels, each of which is individually addressable, can be constructed and applied to displays and biomedical diagnostics, for example.","The ability to produce nanoporous dielectrics on conducting (e.g., metal) surfaces in any configuration (geometry) may be used to advantage in plasma arrays and processing systems. , for example, illustrates a cylindrical array of microplasma devices  each of which is fabricated on the inside wall of a tubular section  of a metal (foil, film on another surface, aluminum tubing, etc.). After the microcavities have been fabricated in the wall of tube , the array is completed by forming a nanoporous dielectric  on the inner surface of the cylinder  with the dielectric also coating the interior of each microcavity, as described above. Depending on the intended application, the microcavities may be of various shapes and size. For the embodiment of , the microcavities extend through the wall of the cylinder . Gas enters the system from the outside of the cylinder  and passes through the microcavities. If the application of the system is to dissociate (fragment) a toxic or other environmentally-hazardous gas or vapor, passage of the gas through the microdischarges will dissociate some fraction of the undesirable species. If the degree of dissociation in a one stage arrangement is acceptable, the gaseous products can be removed from the system along its axis, as shown in . If the degree of dissociation in one stage is insufficient, then a second stage, concentric with the first stage, may be added, as shown in . In this case, the center electrode  is tubular and an array of microcavities is fabricated in its wall that is similar to that in the tubular section . The microcavities again extend through the wall. Along the axis of the electrode  is a second electrode which may be a tube, rod or wire. Both the first and second electrode are encapsulated by the dielectric. With this two stage system, the gas or vapor of interest is now required to pass through two arrays of microdischarges prior to exiting the system.","As noted earlier, the center electrode , which lies along the axis of the larger cylinder having the microplasma pixels, can be a solid conductor (such as a metal rod or tube) or can alternatively be a transparent conductor deposited onto an optically transparent cylinder (such as quartz tubing). The former design will be of interest for electrically exciting and dissociating gases to produce excited or ground state radicals\u2014whereas the latter will be valuable for photo-exciting a gas or vapor flowing inside the inner (optically transparent) cylinder.","The array of  can be used for photochemical processing such as toxic gas remediation, according to an embodiment of the invention. A time-varying potential is applied between the center electrode  and the cylinder . Another application is optical pumping for amplification of light in a gain medium disposed in the center  of the cylinder.","Several of the devices and arrays described earlier, and those depicted in , , and , in particular, have been constructed and tested. A typical microdischarge device fabricated to date consists of Al foil, typically 50-100 microns in thickness, which is first cleaned in an acid solution, and then a microcavity or array of microcavities is micromachined in the foil. The individual microdischarge cavities (i.e., microcavities) are cylindrical with diameters of 50 or 100 microns. After the microcavities are produced, nanoporous Al\/AlOis grown over the entire electrode to a thickness of \u02dc10 microns on the microcavity walls and typically 30-40 microns elsewhere. After assembly of the devices, the devices are evacuated in a vacuum system, de-gassed if necessary, and backfilled with the desired gas or vapor. If desired, the entire device or an array of devices may be sealed in a lightweight package with at least one transparent window by anodic bonding, lamination, glass frit sealing or another process, as is known in the art.","A 2\u00d72 array of Al\/AlOmicrodischarge devices, each device having a cylindrical microcavity with a 100 micron diameter (device of ) has been operated in the rare gases and air. Typical AC operating voltages (values given are peak-to-peak) and RMS currents are 650 V and 2.3 mA for \u02dc700 Torr of Ne, and 800-850 V and 6.25 mA for air. The AC driven frequency for these measurements was 20 kHz. It must be emphasized that stable, uniform discharges were produced in all of the pixels of the arrays without the need for electrical ballast. This result is especially significant for air which has long been known as one of the most challenging gases (or gas mixtures) in which to obtain stable discharges.","Much larger arrays may be constructed and the entire process may be automated. The low cost of the materials required, the ease of device assembly, and the stable well-behaved glow discharges produced in the areas tested to date, all indicate that the microdischarge devices and arrays of embodiments of the present invention can be of value wherever low cost, bright and flexible sources of visible and ultraviolet light are required.","It will, of course, be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to the aspects of the detailed description set forth above. In any of the described embodiments, the dielectric used to encapsulate an electrode may be a nanoporous dielectric. While aluminum encapsulated with alumina (Al\/AlO) has been used as an exemplary material in these devices, a wide variety of materials (e.g., W\/WO) may also be used. Further, in any of the above described embodiments, the microcavities of the device may be filled with a gas at a desired pressure to facilitate microdischarges with particular characteristics. The microcavities may be filled with a discharge gas, such as the atomic rare gases, N, and the rare gas-halogen donor gas mixtures. Gas pressure and gas mixture composition may be chosen to maintain a favorable number density of the desired radiating species. Various changes and modifications of this invention as described will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention as defined in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The foregoing features of the invention will be more readily understood by reference to the following detailed description, taken with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIGS. 1A-1F"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 2B","FIG. 2A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":["FIG. 3B","FIG. 3A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 5"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":["FIG. 11","FIG. 10"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
