---
title: Method and device for three-dimensional graphics to two-dimensional video encoding
abstract: A method and device for three-dimensional graphics to two-dimensional video encoding. A three-dimensional model representing at least one three-dimensional object is received. The three-dimensional model is rendered into a two-dimensional frame. Composition information for the two-dimensional frame is extracted from the three-dimensional model. A bit stream is encoded based on the two-dimensional frame and the composition information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07426304&OS=07426304&RS=07426304
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07426304
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040915
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION","BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION"],"p":["Embodiments of the present invention relate to the field of video encoding.","A wide array of mobile clients, such as personal digital assistants (PDAs) and cellular telephones, include display screen for displaying streaming video content. With the expanded bandwidth of wireless networks (e.g., 3G wireless networks), it was believed that streaming video would occupy the vast majority of wireless media. However, the fastest-growing applications have instead been in the arena of mobile network games based on three-dimensional (3D) graphics models. For instance, in countries such as Korea and Japan, the use of mobile network games has increased such that there is a substantial desire to access mobile network games using mobile electronic devices.","Mobile network games require real-time interactivity, placing a stringent demand of volume timely deliverable data on the current 3G wireless network real-time mechanism. Moreover, typical mobile clients are low-powered lightweight devices having limited computing resources and without the ability to render the millions of triangles per second typically necessary for high quality graphics. As a result, current mobile online games are typically limited in group size and interaction, and are simplistic in visual quality.","In order to improve the quality of mobile online games, a fundamental advance in wireless network technology and a drastic speedup in mobile computing hardware is required. However, game observers comprise a large and growing set of mobile client users. Game observers are users that access network games as non-participants who are interested only in viewing the action. These network games are not limited to mobile network games. For instance, game observers might access a network game from their home personal computers that hardware sufficient to render 3D graphics. As network games mature, highly skilled players acquire fan bases that loyally follow and observe their heroes in action en masse in multicast channels.","Currently, mobile network game observers are subject to the same limitations as active game participants. Specifically, in order to observe a network game, the observer's mobile client typically must meet the hardware requirements necessary to display 3D graphics. However, as describe above, typical mobile clients do not include hardware capable of rendering 3D graphics. Accordingly, mobile game observers are limited to viewing mobile online games, which are often less compelling and have simplistic graphics, and therefore less desirable to observe.","Various embodiments of the present invention, a method and device for three-dimensional graphics to two-dimensional video encoding, are described herein. In one embodiment, a three-dimensional model representing at least one three-dimensional object is received. The three-dimensional model is rendered into a two-dimensional frame. Composition information for the two-dimensional frame is extracted from the three-dimensional model. A bit stream is encoded based on the two-dimensional frame the composition information.","Reference will now be made in detail to various embodiments of the invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with these embodiments, it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. On the contrary, the invention is intended to cover alternatives, modifications and equivalents, which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore, in the following description of the present invention, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. In other instances, well-known methods, procedures, components, and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the present invention.","Aspects of the present invention may be implemented in a computer system that includes, in general, a processor for processing information and instructions, random access (volatile) memory (RAM) for storing information and instructions, read-only (non-volatile) memory (ROM) for storing static information and instructions, a data storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and disk drive for storing information and instructions, an optional user output device such as a display device (e.g., a monitor) for displaying information to the computer user, an optional user input device including alphanumeric and function keys (e.g., a keyboard) for communicating information and command selections to the processor, and an optional user input device such as a cursor control device (e.g., a mouse) for communicating user input information and command selections to the processor.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","104","112","104","102","106","108","110","102","104","106","102","108","108","102","108","102","110","102","104"]},"Graphics-to-video encoder , also referred to as a grencoder, is a computer system for converting updated game events to an encoded bit stream. In one embodiment, the bit stream is streamed to interested game observers  and  using mobile multicast support . However, it should be appreciated that any method or technique for transmitting wireless transmission of data may be used. In one embodiment, mobile multicast support  utilizes the 3G wireless standard, and includes a Gateway GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) Support Node (GGSN), a Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN), a plurality of UMTS (Universal Mobile Technology System) Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN) nodes, and a plurality of user equipment (UE) for transmitting the bit stream to observer  and observer . However, it should be appreciated that any wireless standard may be used. In one embodiment, the user equipment is a mobile client. In one embodiment, the mobile client is a personal digital assistant. In another embodiment, the mobile client is a cellular telephone.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["110","110","210","220","230","110"]},"Graphics rendering unit  receives a 3D model from a server (e.g., game server  of ). Graphics rendering unit  renders a 3D representation of objects of the 3D model onto a 2D plane, generating raw two-dimensional (2D) frames (). The rendering is also referred to as rasterization. In one embodiment, this is performed in a frame buffer of graphics rendering unit .","Composition information extractor  is operable to extract composition information  from the 3D model to improve the visual quality of encoded bit stream . By accessing the original 3D model  that produce the 2D frames , graphics rendering unit  has access to scene composition information of the encoding source. This composition information is typically available to a video encoder. In one embodiment, the composition information includes depth values of object of 3D model . Depth values of objects are used for discerning which object is closer to the camera, and hence which objects are occluded and which are not. By assuming that objects closer to a camera are also objects of interest, then depth values also reveal regions of interest. It should be appreciated that the composition information may include other factors, including but not limited to: motion, texture, shape, fog, lighting, and other semantic information. In one embodiment, composition information extractor  transmits composition information  to video encoder  to improve the visual quality of regions of interest. In another embodiment, composition information extractor  generates a weighting factor based on the composition information  for identifying a region of interest. The weighting factor is then transmitted to video encoder  to improve the visual quality of regions of interest.","Video encoder  receives 2D frames  and composition information  for generating encoded bit stream . Composition information  is used for identifying regions of interest of 2D frames . Video encoder  is configured to apply a mode election strategy to allocate more bits to the regions of interests, thus improving visual quality of encoded bit stream . The bit stream is subsequently packetized and sent to the interested observers (e.g., game observers  and  of ). It should be appreciated that video encoder  may be any standard compliant video encoder, such as a Moving Pictures Experts Group (MPEG) video encoder.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 3"],"b":["300","300","110","300"]},"At step , a 3D model representing at least one 3D object is received. In one embodiment, the 3D model is received from a server (e.g., game server  of ). In one embodiment, the 3D model is compliant with OpenGL. OpenGL is an industrial standard for graphics initiated by Silicon Graphics Inc., that provide a set of application programming interfaces (APIs) that enables graphics programmers to write software that can be easily compiled and optimized on a wide variety of computing platforms. In another embodiment, the 3D model is compliant with OpenGL embedded system (ES), a subset of OpenGL APIs deemed essential for mobile network gaming. Using an OpenGL ES rather than the full-size OpenGL lightens the burden of the hardware manufacturers to support a graphics specification, while enabling them to specialize in fewer APIs.","At step , the 3D model is rendered into a 2D frame. In one embodiment, any standard rasterization may be used to render the 2D frame. In one embodiment, a 2D frame has width and height that are multiples of 16 that are required by certain MPEG encoders.","At step , composition information for the 2D frame is extracted from the 3D model. In one embodiment, the composition information includes depth information indicating depth values for pixels of the 2D frame. It should be appreciated that the composition information include, but it not limited to: motion information (e.g., motion vectors), texture information, object shape information, lighting information, fog information, and other semantic information. It should be appreciated that step  can be performed before or after step .","In one embodiment, where depth information is extracted, during rasterization when 3D objects are mapped to 2D plane, a depth value for each pixel mapped may be calculated using a Z-buffer algorithm to determine object occlusion. Assuming 3D objects are expressed in OpenGL ES APIs, API wrappers are written for particular OpenGL ES APIs after rasterization to first extract depth value d(j, k) for each pixel (j, k) from the frame buffer before calling the native APIs. Accordingly, embodiments of the invention may can be easily adopted by any mobile network game developers that support OpenGL ES, and game developers do not need to make any alterations to their game software in order to reveal depth values for grencoding.","At step , a weighting factor is generated based on the composition information. In one embodiment, the weighting factor is generated for at least one macroblock of a 2D frame. The weighting factor is used to assist in bit allocation during video encoding. For example, weighting factors may be generated for all macroblocks of a 2D frame. Macroblocks with a greater weighting factor are indicated as regions of interest (e.g., are more important than other macroblocks). For instance, in a 2D frame representing an image of a person, macroblocks with high weighting factors may represent the person (e.g., the foreground), while macroblocks with lower weighting factors may represent the background. During video encoding, a greater percentage of bits may be allocated to macroblocks representing the person than to macroblocks representing the background, thereby improving the apparent resolution of the 2D frame using the same number of bits.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 4"],"b":["400","110","400"]},"At step  of process , a mean depth value for a macroblock is determined based on the depth values of the pixels of the macroblock. In MPEG terminology, a macroblock is a group of pixels that are 16 pixel by 16 pixel, and a 2D frame\/picture is composed of non-overlapping macroblocks. In one embodiment, one coding mode for each macroblock (MB) of a group of N MBs are selected such that the total distortion is minimized subject to a rate constraint. For instance, the interdependencies of a row of MBs are modeled in video standard h.263 version 2 (h.263+) linearly, so that the rate and distortion of each MB, R( ) and D( ), depend only on mode mof MBand mode mof previous MB, if available. As such, the mode selection problem can be formulated as the following optimization:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"munder":{"mi":"min","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","i"]},"mo":"\u2208","mi":"\u2133"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["D","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["m","i"]},{"mi":"m","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":","}}},{"mi":["s","t"],"mo":[".",".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["m","i"]},{"mi":"m","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":","}}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}}},"mo":"\u2264","msub":{"mi":["R","s"]}},"mo":","}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"1"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sup":["M ","M"],"sub":"s "},"Instead of solving the original constrained problem, it is common practice to solve the corresponding Lagrangian or unconstrained problem as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"munder":{"mi":"min","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","i"]},"mo":"\u2208","mi":"\u2133"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["m","i"]},{"mi":"m","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":","}}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","o"]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["m","i"]},{"mi":"m","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":","}}}}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"2"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["o ","i"],"sup":"o"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mi":["m","i"],"mn":"0"}}}},"mo":"=","msub":{"mi":["R","s"]}},"mo":","}}},"br":{},"sub":"i","sup":"o"},"Given the available depth values d(j, k) of each pixel (i, k), the weight wof each MBcan be computed, reflecting the level of interest for that MB. Given w's, the following modified Lagrangian can be solved:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"munder":{"mi":"min","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["m","i"]},"mo":"\u2208","mi":"\u2133"}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["D","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["m","i"]},{"mi":"m","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":","}}}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["w","i"]}}},{"msub":{"mi":["R","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["m","i"]},{"mi":"m","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":","}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"+"}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"3"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i","i","i","i ","i","i","i"]},"Given the depth value of each pixel (j, k), d(j, k), a weight wfor each 16\u00d716 MBis calculated to reflect the level of interest of MB. Anti-depth values are defined as the scalar difference of pixel depth from maximum depth value, e.g. d\u2212d(j, k). In general, the surfaces of objects closer to the camera (e.g., large anti-depth values) are likely to garner more observer interest. Hence the mean of anti-depth values in a MB would be a good indicator of how close to the camera the surfaces of objects in the MB are likely to be. In fact, the square of the anti-depth value mean of pixels would be used to accentuate the importance of close-to-camera objects.","At step , a variance depth value for the macroblock is determined based on the depth values of the pixels. The edges of objects are often important as viewers try to discern the shape of objects. Edges of objects in a MB are often reflected in the variance of the pixel depth values.","As an example, consider in  a cone object  whose bottom is closer to the camera than the top.  illustrates an exemplary 3D object  projected onto a 2D plane, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. MBand MBwould have high anti-depth value mean, while MBand MBwould have high variance of pixel depth values.","Given the two above considerations, the formula that wequals to the square of the anti-depth value mean in MBplus the variance of depth values in MB is used.","To control the extent to which more bits proportionally contribute to regions of interest at the expense of other MBs, \u03b3\u22671 is defined as the multiplicative factor such that no MB will receive more than",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0041","num":"0040"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"mi":["\u03b3","N"]}}},"br":{},"sub":["i","i","off","off ","i "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["v","_"]}}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0043","num":"0042"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["v","i"]}}}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c5","i"]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["\u03c5","_"]}}},"mo":"\u2264","mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":["\u03b3","N"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mrow":{"msub":{"mo":"\u2200","mi":"i"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"\u2208","mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":[",","\u2062",","],"mi":["\u2026","N"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.6em","height":"0.6ex"}}}}}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"4"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"off "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["w","off"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mover":{"mo":"=","mi":"def"},"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["w","max"]},"mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mover":{"mi":["w","_"]}}},{"mi":"\u03b3","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"where","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["w","max"]}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":"max","mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mo":[",",","],"mi":["\u2026","N"]}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["{","}"],"msub":{"mi":["w","i"]}},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"and","mover":{"mi":["w","_"]}}},{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["w","i"]},"mo":"."}}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"5"}}]}}}}},"Using this bit distribution strategy, the budget Ris perfectly exhausted to the N MBs:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0047","num":"0046"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03c5","i"]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["\u03c5","_"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["R","s"]}}},{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","s"]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["\u03c5","_"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["w","i"]}}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["w","off"]}}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["R","s"]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["\u03c5","_"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["w","_"]}},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["Nw","off"]}}}}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"msub":{"mi":["R","s"]}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"6"}}]}}}}},"At step , the weighting factor for a macroblock is generated based on the mean depth value and the variance depth value. The weighting factor may also be referred to as the multiplier function \u03bb(w).","Suppose \u03bbis selected a priori for original Lagrangian optimization of Equation 2 such that optimal solution {m} has operational rate",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00011","num":"00011"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["R","s","o"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["m","i","o"]},{"mi":["m","o"],"mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":","}}}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["s ","i ","i","1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00012","num":"00012"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["v","_"]}}}}},"br":{},"sub":["s ","i"],"sup":"*"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0052","num":"0051"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00013","num":"00013"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msubsup":{"mi":["R","s"],"mo":"*"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["R","i"]},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["m","i"],"mo":"*"},{"mi":"m","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"-","mn":"1"},"mo":"*"}],"mo":","}}}},{"msubsup":{"mi":["R","s","o"]},"mo":"."}],"mo":"="}}}},"br":{}},"To derive the mappings \u03bb(w), a theoretical characterization of \u03bb and rate R is needed. The Lagrange multiplier \u03bb corresponds to the negative slope of the distortion-rate function:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0054","num":"0053"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00014","num":"00014"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":"=","mrow":{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"D"},{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"R"}]}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"7"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0055","num":"0054"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00015","num":"00015"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"R","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"D"}},{"mi":"a","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"log","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["b","D"]}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"8"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0056","num":"0055"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00016","num":"00016"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["b","a"]}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"mi":["R","a"]}}}}}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"9"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["s","o ","s"],"sup":["0 ","0 "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0057","num":"0056"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00017","num":"00017"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","o"]},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["b","a"]}},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u2147","mrow":{"mo":"-","mfrac":{"msubsup":{"mi":["R","s","o"]},"mi":"a"}}}}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00018","num":"00018"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mn":"1","mi":"N"},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["R","s","o"]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00019","num":"00019"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["v","_"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["R","s","o"]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["i ","i"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00020","num":"00020"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]}},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["R","s","o"]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"i "},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00021","num":"00021"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2062","mover":{"mi":["v","_"]}}},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["R","s","o"]}}}},"br":{}},"To find \u03bb(w) that consumes",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00022","num":"00022"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]}},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["R","s","o"]}}}},"br":{},"sub":["s","o "],"sup":"o"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0064","num":"0063"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00023","num":"00023"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["w","i"]}}},{"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mi":["b","a"]}},{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]}}}]},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03bb","o"],"mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mover":{"mi":["v","_"]}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"10"}}]}}}}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0065","num":"0064"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00024","num":"00024"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":["b","a"]},"mo":"\u2265","msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","o"]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0066","num":"0065"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00025","num":"00025"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mrow":{"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mi":["b","a"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mi":"\u03b1","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","o"]}},"mo":","}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0067","num":"0066"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00026","num":"00026"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03bb","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","i"]}}},{"mrow":[{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","o"]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mfrac":{"msub":{"mi":["v","i"]},"mn":"0"}}}},{"msub":{"mi":["\u03bb","o"]},"mo":"\u2062","msup":{"mi":"\u03b1","mrow":{"mn":"1","mo":"-","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mfrac":{"mrow":[{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03c9","i"]},{"mi":["\u03c9","off"]}],"mo":"+"},{"mover":{"mi":["\u03c9","_"]},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":["\u03c9","off"]}}]}}}}}],"mo":"="}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mn":"11"}}]}}}}},"Returning to , at step , a bit stream is encoded based on the 2D frame and the composition information. In one embodiment, the bit stream is encoded utilizing a weighting factor (e.g., \u03bb(w)) for macroblocks of the bit stream. In one embodiment, the bit stream is then streamed to interested game observers using mobile multicast support.","Various embodiments of the present invention provide a method and device for improved three-dimensional graphics to two-dimensional video encoding. The invention provides a method and device for streaming mobile network game sequences in standard compliant video to many game observers. The grencoder takes 3D game graphics as input, and increases the visual quality of regions of interest of the video by performing intelligent mode selection during h.263+ video encoding. The regions of interest are identified by extracting the composition information (e.g., depth values) of pixels in the frame buffer made available when 3D objects are projected to a 2D surface during rasterization.","Embodiments of the present invention, a method and device for three-dimensional graphics to two-dimensional video encoding, are thus described. While the present invention has been described in particular embodiments, it should be appreciated that the present invention should not be construed as limited by such embodiments, but rather construed according to the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form a part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and, together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
