---
title: Noise robust speech recognition with a switching linear dynamic model
abstract: A unified, nonlinear, non-stationary, stochastic model is disclosed for estimating and removing effects of background noise on speech cepstra. Generally stated, the model is a union of dynamic system equations for speech and noise, and a model describing how speech and noise are mixed. Embodiments also pertain to related methods for enhancement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07418383&OS=07418383&RS=07418383
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07418383
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040903
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["The present invention generally pertains to pattern recognition systems. More particularly, the present invention pertains to methods for reducing the adverse impact of noise on signals utilized within speech recognition systems.","A pattern recognition system, such as a speech recognition system, takes an input signal and attempts to decode the signal and identify an incorporated pattern. For example, in a speech recognition system, a speech signal (often referred to as a test signal) is received by the recognition system and is decoded to identify a string of words represented by the speech signal.","To decode the incoming text signal, most recognition systems utilize one or more models that describe the likelihood that a portion of the test signal represents a particular pattern. Examples of such models include Neural Nets, Dynamic Time Warping, segment models, and Hidden Markov Models.","Before a model is used to decode an incoming signal, it is trained. Training is typically accomplished by measuring input training signals generated from a known training pattern. For example, in speech recognition, it is common for speakers reading from a known text generate a collection of speech signals. These speech signals are then used to train the models.","In order for the models to work optimally, the signals used to train the model should be similar to the eventual test signals that are decoded. In particular, the training signals should have the same amount and type of noise as the test signals that are decoded.","Typically, the training signal is collected under \u201cclean\u201d conditions and is considered to be relatively noise free. To achieve this same low level of noise in the test signal, many prior art systems apply noise reduction techniques to the testing data. Automatic speech recognition systems without explicit provisions for noise robustness have proven to degrade quickly in the presence of additive noise.","Thus, how to best add noise robustness to speech recognition systems is an area of active research. There are many examples of model based feature enhancement systems. Many such systems include a model for speech, and often a model for noise as well, within an enhancement algorithm. Most techniques incorporate either Gaussian mixture models or hidden Markov models.","When the clean speech model is a Gaussian mixture model (GMM), each frame of data is enhanced independently. Without post-processing, this can result in artifacts, such as sharp single frame transitions, that were not part of the original clean speech signal.","Choosing a hidden Markov model (HMM) for the clean speech model introduces some time dependencies in the enhancement process. Although, for any given state sequence, the enhancement process is the same as for a GMM, the state transition probabilities of the HMM tend to eliminate single frame errors in the output. State transitions, however, can still produce edge artifacts, so post-processing is still generally necessary.","Embodiments of the present invention pertain to a unified, nonlinear, non-stationary, stochastic model for estimating and removing effects of background noise on speech cepstra. Generally stated, the model is a union of dynamic system equations for speech and noise, and a model describing how speech and noise are mixed. Embodiments also pertain to related methods for enhancement.","I. First Exemplary Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100","100","100"]},"The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well-known computing systems, environments, and\/or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include, but are not limited to, personal computers, server computers, hand-held or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers, mainframe computers, telephony systems, distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and the like.","The invention may be described in the general context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by a computer. Generally, program modules include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention is designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.","With reference to , an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general-purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer  may include, but are not limited to, a processing unit , a system memory , and a system bus  that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus  may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus also known as Mezzanine bus.","Computer  typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer  and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation, computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM, digital versatile disks (DVD) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term \u201cmodulated data signal\u201d means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example, and not limitation, communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and wireless media such as acoustic, RF, infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.","The system memory  includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and\/or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory (ROM)  and random access memory (RAM) . A basic input\/output system  (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer , such as during start-up, is typically stored in ROM . RAM  typically contains data and\/or program modules that are immediately accessible to and\/or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data .","The computer  may also include other removable\/non-removable volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only,  illustrates a hard disk drive  that reads from or writes to non-removable, nonvolatile magnetic media, a magnetic disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile magnetic disk , and an optical disk drive  that reads from or writes to a removable, nonvolatile optical disk  such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable\/non-removable, volatile\/nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include, but are not limited to, magnetic tape cassettes, flash memory cards, digital versatile disks, digital video tape, solid state RAM, solid state ROM, and the like. The hard disk drive  is typically connected to the system bus  through a non-removable memory interface such as interface , and magnetic disk drive  and optical disk drive  are typically connected to the system bus  by a removable memory interface, such as interface .","The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in FIG. , provide storage of computer readable instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer . In , for example, hard disk drive  is illustrated as storing operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data . Operating system , application programs , other program modules , and program data  are given different numbers here to illustrate that, at a minimum, they are different copies.","A user may enter commands and information into the computer  through input devices such as a keyboard , a microphone , and a pointing device , such as a mouse, trackball or touch pad. Other input devices (not shown) may include a joystick, game pad, satellite dish, scanner, or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit  through a user input interface  that is coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interface and bus structures, such as a parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). A monitor  or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus  via an interface, such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor, computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers  and printer , which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .","The computer  is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer . The remote computer  may be a personal computer, a hand-held device, a server, a router, a network PC, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in  include a local area network (LAN)  and a wide area network (WAN) , but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.","When used in a LAN networking environment, the computer  is connected to the LAN  through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment, the computer  typically includes a modem  or other means for establishing communications over the WAN , such as the Internet. The modem , which may be internal or external, may be connected to the system bus  via the user input interface , or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the computer , or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example, and not limitation,  illustrates remote application programs  as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.","II. Second Exemplary Environment",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0032","num":"0031"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["200","200","202","204","206","208","210"]},"Memory  is implemented as non-volatile electronic memory such as random access memory (RAM) with a battery back-up module (not shown) such that information stored in memory  is not lost when the general power to mobile device  is shut down. A portion of memory  is preferably allocated as addressable memory for program execution, while another portion of memory  is preferably used for storage, such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.","Memory  includes an operating system , application programs  as well as an object store . During operation, operating system  is preferably executed by processor  from memory . Operating system , in one preferred embodiment, is a WINDOWS\u00ae CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system  is preferably designed for mobile devices, and implements database features that can be utilized by applications  through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store  are maintained by applications  and operating system , at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.","Communication interface  represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device  to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems, satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device  can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases, communication interface  can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection, all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.","Input\/output components  include a variety of input devices such as a touch-sensitive screen, buttons, rollers, and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator, a vibrating device, and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition, other input\/output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device  within the scope of the present invention.","III. Introduction\u2014Techniques for Speech Feature Enhancement","Embodiments of the present invention pertain to processing techniques for speech feature enhancement, the techniques being designed to improve the performance of a speech recognizer that runs on acoustic features. Broadly stated, an important motivation underlying the processing techniques described herein, and indeed speech feature enhancement generally, is to make acoustic features seem as if they were produced by a high quality microphone in a noise-free environment.","One known way to address speech feature enhancement is to equip a processing system with a model that provides an expectation of what clean speech is supposed to look like. This model information is then utilized as a basis for processing acoustic features so that they more closely approximate clean speech. The effectiveness of this approach is dependent upon the strength and accuracy of the model information utilized to represent clean speech.","In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, a switching linear dynamic model (LDM) is implemented for clean speech. The linear dynamics of this model capture the smooth time evolution of speech. The switching states of the model capture the piecewise stationary characteristics of speech. Similar to the GMM or HMM that are traditionally implemented, the switching LDM maintains the concept that, as time progresses, the signal passes through several distinct states. In addition, the switching LDM enforces a continuous state transition in the feature space, conditioned on the state sequence.","One challenge associated with incorporation of a switching LDM is that the model causes the enhancement problem to become intractable. With a GMM or an HMM, the enhancement running time is proportional to the length of the utterance, wherein enhancement of a signal with length T takes O(T) time. The switching LDM causes the running time to become exponential in the length of the utterance, wherein the enhancement algorithm takes O(e). Even for short utterances, T is on the order of several hundred frames, and the direct approach is infeasible. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, a standard generalized pseudo-Bayesian technique is implemented to provide an approximate solution to overcome the described enhancement drawback.","Accordingly, as will be described in greater detail below, one aspect of the present invention pertains to model based feature enhancement techniques incorporating acoustic models for speech and noise, together with a model of how the speech and noise produce the noisy observations. The model format implemented to represent clean speech and\/or noise is a linear dynamic model or a switching linear dynamic model.","IV. Models for Describing Speech Characteristics","An early step in building a noise removal system is to define a set of system equations to describe clean speech and\/or noise.","A standard linear dynamic model obeys the following system equation:\n\n\u2003\u2003Eq. 1\n\nwhere xrepresents a clean speech feature vector for time frame t, x, represents a clean speech feature vector for time t\u22121, the A and b variables describe how the process evolves over time, and vis a zero-mean Gaussian noise source which drives the system. Accordingly, in order to derive a good estimate of the clean speech vector at time t, a value for a clean speech feature vector at time t\u22121 is rotated by a matrix operator A and added to a constant b, with a further addition of vaccounting for an uncertainty of how the process can change over time. A linear dynamic model is generally time-invariant, and is useful in describing signals such as colored stationary Gaussian noise.\n","In accordance with one embodiment, a linear dynamic model is implemented for noise.  is a graphical representation of such a model for noise. Equations for representing noise with a linear dynamic model in terms of probability include:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00001","num":"00001"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["x","t"]},{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":";","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":"Ax","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},"mo":"+","mi":"b"}},"mo":",","mi":"C"}}}],"mo":"="},{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mi":["x","T"],"mn":"1"}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"x","mn":"1"}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"=","mn":"2"},"mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["x","t"]},{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqs","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"and","mn":"3"},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}}]}}}}},"The linear dynamic model stands in contrast to a regular stationary model where:\n\n\u2003\u2003Eq. 4\n\nThe linear dynamic and stationary models are both making predictions about what xmight be. However, the variance of the verror term in Eq. 1 will generally be smaller than the error term uin Eq. 4. This is because knowledge pertaining to a previous state is being leveraged in Eq. 1 but not in Eq. 4. The Eq. 1 linear dynamic model is especially advantageous for processes that smoothly evolve over time because it provides more predictive power.\n","The linear dynamic model (\u201cLDM\u201d) is particularly well suited for describing things that have constant statistics over time. For example, such a model is good for describing a stationary vowel. The fact of the matter is, however, it is most common for the types of sounds that a person makes over time to change. The Eq. 1 linear dynamic model is not the best fit when the dynamics of changes over time are not constant.","In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, a switching linear dynamic model is implemented for speech. A notable difference associated with a switching linear dynamic model is that instead of relying on one set of predictors (i.e., A and b in ), multiple sets of predictors are implemented. Accordingly, the switching linear dynamic model is effective even in the case where different sounds can have different temporal dynamics.","In a switching linear dynamic model (\u201cswitching LDM\u201d), the A and b noted in Eq. 1 become dependent on a hidden variable at each time t. Thus,\n\n\u2003\u2003Eq. 5\n\nFor the switching LDM, every unique state sequence Sdescribes a non-stationary LDM. As a result, the model is appropriate for describing a number of time-varying systems, including the evolution of speech and noise features over time.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0050","num":"0049"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"sub":["t ","t "]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0051","num":"0050"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00002","num":"00002"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":",","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["s","t"]},{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":";","mrow":{"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"A","msub":{"mi":["s","t"]}},{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"+","msub":{"mi":"b","msub":{"mi":["s","t"]}}}},"mo":",","msub":{"mi":"C","msub":{"mi":["s","t"]}}}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["s","t"]}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="},{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["x","T"],"mn":"1"},{"mi":["s","T"],"mn":"1"}],"mo":","}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"x","mn":"1"},{"mi":"s","mn":"1"}],"mo":","}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u220f","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"=","mn":"2"},"mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":",","mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["s","t"]},{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"="}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":{}}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqs","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"6"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}],"mi":"and","mn":"7"},"mo":"\u2062","mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}}}}]}}}},"br":{}},"In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, utilizing data to train the parameters {A}, {b} and {C} is accomplished using standard expectation-maximization (EM) techniques. In one embodiment, the parameters are first held fixed to compute an expected state occupancy, for example,\n\n\u03b3()\u2003\u2003Eq. 8\n\nNext, a new set of parameters is found that maximizes the expected log-likelihood of the data given the model. The result of this maximization step is illustratively:\n\n=(<>>>)\u00b7(<>>>)\n\n>>\n\n=<()()\u2032>\u2003\u2003Eqs. 9, 10 and 11\n\nIn equations 9, 10 and 11, a shorthand notation <\u00b7>is utilized to indicate expectation over the training data. For example,\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0053","num":"0052"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00003","num":"00003"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"msub":{"mrow":{"mo":["\u2329","\u232a"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["x","\u2032"],"mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}}},"mi":"m"},"mo":"=","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["\u03b3","i","m"]},{"mi":["x","\u2032"],"mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]}}},{"munderover":{"mo":"\u2211","mrow":{"mi":"i","mo":"=","mn":"1"},"mi":"T"},"mo":"\u2062","msubsup":{"mi":["\u03b3","i","m"]}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"12"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{}]},"A. General Discussion","The observation model relates the noisy observation to the hidden speech and noise features. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, any of a variety of observation model techniques can be implemented without departing from the scope of the present invention.","In accordance with one embodiment, the implemented observation model is a zero variance model with signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) inference. An example of such a model is provided in J. Droppo, L. Deng, and A. Acero, -, in Proc. 2003 Eurospeech, Geneva, Switzerland, September 2003, pp. 681-684.  is a first graphical representation of this observation model, wherein the observation is a non-linear function of speech and noise. The observation model assumes that x (clean speech) and n (noise) mix linearly in the time domain, which corresponds with a non-linear mixing in the cepstral feature space.","An SNR variable r=x\u2212n is introduced to simplify calculation. If the prior distribution for speech and noise are:\n\nx\u02dcN(x; \u03bc, \u03a3), and n\u02dcN(n; \u03bc, \u03a3)\u2003\u2003Eq. 13\n\nthen the joint probability distribution function (PDF) of the noisy observation y and the hidden variable r can be shown to be:\n\n()=(ln(+1)+, \u03a3) (ln(e+1); \u03bc, \u03a3)\u2003\u2003Eq. 14\n\nHere, C represents the matrix that rotates log mel-frequency filterbank outputs into cepstra, and D represents its right inverse, such that CD=I. The behavior of the joint PDF is intuitive. At high SNR, r>>0, and:\n\n()\u2248(, \u03a3)(, \u03a3)\u2003\u2003Eq. 15\n\nThat is, the observation is assumed to be clean speech, and the noise is at a level r units below the observation. The converse is true for low SNR, where r<<0.\n",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0058","num":"0057"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIG. 5"],"b":["606","602","604","608"]},"As has been described, an observation y supports a belief about the local signal-to-noise ratio r, which then can be utilized as a basis for generating a distribution over the clean speech x. A model for speech p(x, s) and a model for noise p(n) are applied in the context of an observation y=f(x, n) to derive p(y, r, s) similar to Eqs. 14 and 15, which relate an observation y to the hidden signal-to-noise ratio variable r.","A challenge arises in that Eq. 14 is quite non-linear in variable r. In order to make r linear, a Taylor series representation is implemented:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0061","num":"0060"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00004","num":"00004"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"C","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["e","Dr"]},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"C","mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"e","msub":{"mi":"Dr","mn":"0"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mfrac":{"mo":"\u2146","mrow":{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"0"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"0"}}}}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"0"}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":"+"}],"mo":"\u2245"}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"16"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{}],"sup":["th ","st ","2"],"in-line-formulae":[{},{}],"i":["p","r","|y",", s","N","r",", {circumflex over (r)}"],"sub":["t","t","t","t,s","r,s"]},"B. The Zero Variance Model","The observation model, in one aspect of the present invention, defines the current noisy observation y as a nonlinear function of the clean speech x and noise n. This relationship is a direct consequence of the linear mixing of speech and noise sound waveforms, and the feature computation method.\n\n=ln()\u2003\u2003Eq. 18\n","Because Equation 18 is assumed to hold exactly, with no error, it can be referred to as a Zero Variance Model. In practice, when the instantaneous signal to noise ratio (SNR) is near 0 dB, the relative phase of the x and n signals can cause this equation to be violated.","As has been inferred, it is also useful to define the instantaneous SNR as the difference between x and n. Introducing the SNR variable enables a cleaner derivation, and reduces the complexity of the final algorithm.\n\n\u2003\u2003Eq. 19\n","Together, Equations 18 and 19 have a unique solution for x and n, namely:\n\n\u2212ln(+1)+\n\n\u2212ln(+1))\u2003\u2003Eqs. 20 and 21\n","These solutions can then be incorporated into the probability model as a pair of Dirac delta functions.\n\n()=\u03b4((+1)+)\u03b4((e+1)\u2212)\u2003\u2003Eq. 22\n","The observation model p(y, r|x, n) is now suitable for combination with a prior model p(x, n).","VI. Posterior Estimation with Generalized Pseudo-Bayes and the Zero Variance Model","A challenge associated with computing a posterior under the proposed system is that the switching LDM makes it computationally intractable. The switching LDM can take any of M hidden states at each time frame. As a result, for T frames of speech, there are Mpossible state sequences, which can be a large number.","If the state sequences were known, the model would reduce to a time-varying LDM with known parameters, which is trivially solvable. The true posterior would contain only one mixture component. When the state sequence is unknown, the exact answer is a mixture of Mcomponents; one for each possible state sequence.","In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, a generalized pseudo-Bayesian (GPB) algorithm is employed as an approximation means for reducing the size of the search space. The GPB assumes that it is not important to keep track of distinct state histories whose difference occur more than \u03c4 frames in the past.","For \u03c4=1, the posterior is collapsed into M Gaussian components at each time step. Each of these components corresponds to a different value for the current state. For \u03c4=2, there are Munique histories, and a corresponding number of reduced Gaussian components. In general, the GPB algorithm reduces the inference complexity from Mto M, where \u03c4<<T is chosen.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["702","704","706","708"]},"A. State History Collapsed","Before processing frame t, there are an available M Gaussian components corresponding to an equal number of unique state histories. Each component incorporates observations up to yto produce a posterior at time t\u22121.\n\nq(x, n, y, s)\u2003\u2003Eq. 23\n","The posterior is marginalized over states occurring \u03c4 frames in the past. Each sum of Gaussians is approximated by a single Gaussian component using moment matching. This collapses together all Gaussians that share a history of length \u03c4\u22121.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00005","num":"00005"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":[",",","],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":"y","mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"s","mrow":[{"mi":["t","\u03c4"],"mo":["-","+"],"mn":"1"},{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","msub":{"mi":"s","mrow":{"mi":["t","\u03c4"],"mo":"-"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":"x","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"n","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}}],"mo":[",",","],"mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":"y","mn":"1","mrow":{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}},{"mi":"s","mrow":[{"mi":["t","\u03c4"],"mo":"-"},{"mi":"t","mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":"s","mrow":{"mi":["t","\u03c4"],"mo":"-"}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}],"mo":["\u2248","\u2062"],"mi":{}}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"24"}}]}}}},"br":{},"sub":"t\u2212\u03c4"},"B. Predict\u2014Moving Forward Through Time","The second step, prediction, involves branching out each remaining hypotheses M times, once for each possible state s.\n\n()=\u222b()()()\u2003\u2003Eq. 25\n","The switching linear dynamic model determines the prediction for x. A separate linear dynamic model determines the predictions for n.\n\n()=()\n\n()=()\u2003\u2003Eqs. 26 and 27\n","Because all of the distributions are Gaussian, the integrations are trivial.","C. Observe\u2014Incorporating Current Observation","At this point in the process, an observation becomes available that helps to refine speculation as to where the state is. As a result of the previous steps, M components that describe xwill have been obtained, but the current observation ywill not have been accounted for. Incorporating the current observation enables a production of a posterior distribution for xthat includes all observations up to and including y.","In this step, a model of the current observation is used to convert a prior estimate for clean speech and noise, q(x, n, y|s), into an approximate posterior estimate for clean speech and noise, q(x, ny|s). Because the observation model is non-linear, the approximation described in Section V is utilized.","The following derivation can be applied to any of the M possible state histories s. To simplify the notation, the following substitutions are made:\n\n()\u2192()\n\n()\u2192()\u2003\u2003Eqs. 28 and 29\n","At this point, the prior p(x, n) can be written as simple gaussian components.\n\n()=(\u03c3)(, \u03c3)\u2003\u2003Eq. 30\n","First, the joint distribution over y, r, x, and n is derived. This is the combination of the observation model and the prior model.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0088","num":"0087"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00006","num":"00006"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","r","x","n"],"mo":[",",",",","]}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","n"],"mo":[",",","],"mrow":{"mi":["r","x"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["x","n"],"mo":","}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","r","x"],"mo":["-","+","-"],"mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["e","r"]},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":";","msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","x"]}},"mo":",","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","x"]}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":{},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"\u03b4","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","n"],"mo":["-","-"],"mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["e","r"]},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":";","msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","n"]}},"mo":",","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","n"]}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"31"}}]}}}}},"It is then desirable to convert this posterior into an approximate posterior of the form:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0090","num":"0089"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00007","num":"00007"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["x","n","y"],"mo":[",",","]}}},{"mrow":[{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["x","y"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["n","y"],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mi":"y"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}],"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"x","mo":";","mover":{"mi":"x","mo":"^"}},"mo":",","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"mi":"x"}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"n","mo":";","mover":{"mi":"n","mo":"^"}},"mo":",","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"mi":"n"}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":";","mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"^"}},"mo":",","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"mi":"y"}}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"]}}}}]}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"32"}}]}}}}},"This is accomplished with a combination of Taylor series approximation, moment matching, and algebra. To do this, moments of p(y, r, x, n) in x and n must be computed.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0092","num":"0091"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00008","num":"00008"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["\u222b","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.2em","height":"0.2ex"}}},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"x"},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u2146","mi":"n"},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","r","x","n"],"mo":[",",",",","]}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":["n","b"]}}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.3em","height":"0.3ex"}}},"msup":{"mi":["x","a"]}}},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","r"],"mo":["-","+"],"mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["e","r"]},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}},"mi":"a"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":["y","r"],"mo":["-","+"],"mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["e","r"]},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},"mo":";","msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","x"]}},"mo":",","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","x"]}}}}}],"mo":"="}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"33"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["e","r"]},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}}},"mi":"b"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"-","mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":["e","r"]},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},"mo":";","msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","n"]}},"mo":",","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","n"]}}}}},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","r"],"mo":["-","+"],"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"0"}}}}}}}},"mi":"a"},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":"(","mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":"-","msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":"+","mrow":{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":"-","msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"0"}}}}}},"mi":"b"}}}}],"mo":"\u2248"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"34"}}]},{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"y","mo":";","mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"^"}},"mo":",","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"mi":"y"}}}},{"mi":"N","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"r","mo":";","mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"^"}},"mo":",","msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"mi":"r"}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}},{"mrow":{"mi":"Eq","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"35"}}]}]}}},"br":{},"sub":"0","sup":"r"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0093","num":"0092"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00009","num":"00009"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"f","mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"ln","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"e","msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"0"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}}},{"mi":"F","mo":"=","mfrac":{"mn":"1","mrow":{"msup":{"mi":"e","msub":{"mi":"r","mn":"0"}},"mo":"+","mn":"1"}}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"mi":"y"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"F","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","x"]}},{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["I","F"],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2062","msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","n"]}}],"mo":"+"}},{"mover":{"mi":"y","mo":"^"},"mo":"=","mrow":{"mi":"f","mo":["+","+"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03bc","n"]},"mrow":{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":[{"mi":["\u03bc","x"]},{"mi":["\u03bc","n"]},{"mi":"r","mn":"0"}],"mo":["-","-"]}}}}},{"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"mi":"r"},"mo":"=","msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mrow":{"msup":[{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["I","F"],"mo":"-"}},"mn":"2"},{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","x"]}},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}],"mo":"\u2062"},"mo":"+","msup":{"mrow":[{"msup":{"mi":"F","mn":"2"},"mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","n"]}}},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mtext":{}},{"mtext":{}},{"mtext":{}},{"mtext":{}}],"mtable":{"mtr":[{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mover":{"mi":"r","mo":"^"},"mo":["=","\u2062"],"mi":{},"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mover":{"mi":"\u03c3","mo":"^"},"mi":"r"}},{"mo":"(","mrow":{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["F","I"],"mo":"-"}},{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","f"],"mo":["-","+","-"],"msub":[{"mi":"Fr","mn":"0"},{"mi":["\u03bc","x"]}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"msup":{"mrow":[{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","x"]}},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]}},"mo":"+"}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}}},{"mtd":{"mrow":{"mi":{},"mo":["\u2062",")"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":[{"mi":"F","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["\u03c3","n"]}}},{"mo":"-","mn":"1"}]},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"mi":["y","f"],"mo":["-","+","-"],"msub":[{"mi":"Fr","mn":"0"},{"mi":["\u03bc","n"]}]}}}}}}]}}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqs","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"1.1em","height":"1.1ex"}}},"mn":"36"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"-"},"mn":"41"}}]}}}},"br":[{},{},{},{},{},{}],"in-line-formulae":[{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{},{}],"i":["p","y|s","N","y; \u0177, {circumflex over (\u03c3)}","{circumflex over (x)}=E[x|y, s]=y\u2212","f+F","{circumflex over (r)}\u2212r","{circumflex over (r)}","{circumflex over (n)}=E[x|y, s]=y\u2212","f+F","{circumflex over (r)}\u2212r","=E","x\u2212{circumflex over (x)}","|y, s]=","F\u2212I","=E","n\u2212{circumflex over (n)}","|y, s]=F"],"sub":["y","0","0","x","r ","n","r"],"sup":["2","2","2","2"]},"The approximate posterior computation is then complete. The GPB algorithm moves forward one step in time, and then the steps are repeated.","D. Enhancement","In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, it is desirable to generate a representation that is only the function of all the observations and the current clean speech. Given the processing up to this point, what has been generated is a representation that is a function of the current clean speech, all the observations, as well as all of the states (i.e., the current s, the previous s and all previous s up to \u03c4 frames in the past). The goal, therefore, becomes to eliminate states and just keep relevant variables. This process of eliminating unwanted variables is referred to as marginalization. Equations for performing marginalization are provided below.","In addition to serving as the input for the next frame to process, the approximate Gaussian posterior can also be used to produce estimates of the moments of x. In accordance with one embodiment, these moments are utilized to perform noise robust recognition. The minimum mean-square error (MMSE) estimate E[x|y] can be fed directly to a traditional recognition system, or augmented with the second moment for use with uncertainty decoding. In accordance with one embodiment, calculation can be accomplished as follows:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0098","num":"0097"},"maths":{"@attributes":{"id":"MATH-US-00010","num":"00010"},"math":{"@attributes":{"overflow":"scroll"},"mtable":{"mtr":{"mtd":[{"mrow":{"mrow":[{"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":["y","t"],"mn":"1"}}}},{"munder":{"mo":"\u2211","msubsup":{"mi":["s","t"],"mrow":{"mi":["t","r"],"mo":["-","+"],"mn":"1"}}},"mo":"\u2062","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":",","mrow":{"msubsup":[{"mi":["y","t"],"mn":"1"},{"mi":["s","t"],"mrow":{"mi":["t","\u03c4"],"mo":["-","+"],"mn":"1"}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"}}}}},{"mi":"p","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msubsup":{"mi":["s","t"],"mrow":{"mi":["t","\u03c4"],"mo":["-","+"],"mn":"1"}}}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}],"mo":"="},{"mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"},"msubsup":{"mi":["y","t"],"mn":"1"}}}},"mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":["y","t"],"mn":"1"}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["x","t"]}}]}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":["y","t"],"mn":"1"}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["x","t"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}]}},{"mrow":{"mi":"E","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["[","]"],"mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"\u2758"},"msubsup":{"mi":["y","t"],"mn":"1"}}}},"mo":"\u2248","mfrac":{"mrow":[{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"msup":{"mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]}},"mn":"2"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":["y","t"],"mn":"1"}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["x","t"]}}]}},{"mo":"\u222b","mrow":{"mrow":[{"mi":"q","mo":"\u2061","mrow":{"mo":["(",")"],"mrow":{"msub":{"mi":["x","t"]},"mo":",","msubsup":{"mi":["y","t"],"mn":"1"}}}},{"mo":"\u2146","msub":{"mi":["x","t"]}}],"mo":"\u2062"}}]}}],"mo":["\u2062","\u2062","\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":[{"mtext":{}},{"mtext":{}}]}},{"mrow":{"mrow":{"mi":"Eqs","mo":[".","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mspace":{"@attributes":{"width":"0.8em","height":"0.8ex"}}},"mn":"47"},"mo":["\u2062","\u2062"],"mstyle":{"mtext":"-"},"mn":"49"}}]}}}},"br":{}},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0099","num":"0098"},"figref":"FIG. 8","b":["814","816"]},"Analysis typically begins with receipt of an input utterance. A microphone  converts audio waves from a speaker  and one or more additive noise sources  into electrical signals. The electrical signals are then sampled by an analog-to-digital converter  to generate a sequence of digital values, which are grouped into frames of values by a frame constructor . In one embodiment, A-to-D converter  samples the analog signal at 16 kHz and 16 bits per sample, thereby creating 32 kilobytes of speech data per second, and frame constructor  creates a new frame every 10 milliseconds that includes 25 milliseconds worth of data. Each from of data provided by frame constructor  is converted into a feature vector by a feature extractor . Methods for identifying such feature vectors are well known in the art and include 39-dimensional Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficients (MFCC) extraction. Finally, as is indicated by block , posterior estimation and enhancement are carried out based on the supplied feature vectors and model parameters. For example, a related MMSE estimate is fed to a speech recognition system for recognition purposes, or augmented for use with uncertainty decoding.","Resulting estimated values for signal-to-noise ratios, clean speech feature vectors, and other related data representations can actually be utilized for any desired purpose. In one embodiment, estimated values for clean speech feature vectors are used directly in a speech recognition system as is shown in .","If the input signal is a training signal, the series of estimated values for the clean speech feature vectors can be provided to a trainer , which uses the estimated values for the clean speech feature vectors and a training text  to train an acoustic model . Specific techniques for training such models are known in the art and a description of them is not required for an understanding of the present invention.","If the input signal is a test signal, the estimated values of the clean speech feature vectors are provided to a decoder , which identifies a most likely sequence of words based on the stream of feature vectors, a lexicon , a language model  and the acoustic model . The particular method used for decoding is not important to the present invention and any of several known methods for decoding may be implemented.","The most probable sequence of hypothesis words is provided to a confidence measure module . Confidence measure module  identifies which words are most likely to have been improperly identified by the speech recognizer, based in part on a secondary acoustic model (not shown). Confidence measure module  then provides the sequence of hypotheses words to an output module  along with identifiers indicating which words may have been improperly identified. Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least confidence measure module  is not necessary for the practice of the present invention.","Although  depict speech systems, the present invention may be implemented in any pattern recognition system and is not limited to speech.","Although the present invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 9"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
