---
title: Apparatus and method for blocking audio/visual programming and for muting audio
abstract: A program blocking application that blocks programming for one or more possible users, based on various criteria associated with the program. A program word muting application that selectively mutes context specific words as a function of program specific criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08935717&OS=08935717&RS=08935717
owner: Clearplay, Inc.
number: 08935717
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041022
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND","BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The present application is a non-provisional application related to and claiming priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/481,544 titled \u201cBlocking\/Allowing of Television Programs Based on User-Specific Selection\u201d filed on Oct. 22, 2003, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/481,548 titled \u201cParental Control Filter Settings Based on Information Associated with the Media Content\u201d filed on Oct. 23, 2003, both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.","The present application generally involves the field of audio and visual presentation control, and more particularly involve program blocking and audio muting.","Within the broad diversity of television programming, a particular viewer may feel some television programs are acceptable, and other programs are offensive. Moreover, a parent may feel that some programs are suitable for their children and others are not. V-Chip technology was created in an effort to help owners of televisions better control the types of programming content that is accessible through their television. V-Chip technology is based on a system where parental ratings are associated with different television programs, and the user of the television can block programs based on ratings. For example, a television user could select to block all programs that are rated \u201cTV-MA.\u201d The \u201cMA\u201d stands for mature audiences and indicates that the program is specifically designed to be viewed by adults and therefore may be unsuitable for children under 17.","With a V-Chip enabled television, a user can only categorically block content based on the program's rating designation. For example, a parent may wish to block all episodes of the television sitcom Coupling\u2122 because of its sexually charged content. Coupling\u2122 has a TV-14 rating, but the television user may not want to block all programs with the TV-14 rating. The user may only want to block all episodes of the \u201cCoupling\u201d television program, and permit access to other television programs that have a TV-14 rating. Also, a user may want to only allow certain selected programs, and block all other programs. For example, parents may wish to allow access to the children's program \u201cSesame Street\u201d and the children's program \u201cMr. Rogers\u201d but then block all other programs.","If a media program (i.e. a television show) contains content that a parent finds objectionable (i.e. certain words or phrases), the parent could use a filtering application to filter or block the objectionable content during the presentation of the program. Applications exist for muting objectionable words. However, some words or phrases might be offensive in one context, but acceptable in a different context. For example, a parent might find the word \u201cbitch\u201d offensive when used as an insult, but find the word \u201cbitch\u201d acceptable when used in reference to a female dog. This problem can sometimes be solved by examining the words that proceed and follow the questionable word. For example, \u201cyou\u201d followed immediately by \u201cbitch\u201d would indicate a high probability that the word \u201cbitch\u201d is being used in an offensive manner. However, when the word \u201cthe\u201d is followed immediately by the word \u201cbitch\u201d it is difficult to accurately determine the context of the word based on the surrounding words.","These and other issues may be resolved by various implementations of the present invention as set forth in detail below.","One aspect of the present invention involves a method for blocking one or more programs amongst a plurality of programming options. The method comprises the operations of: receiving an audio\/video programming signal comprising a plurality of programs. Before or after receipt of the signal, receiving an indication to block display of at least one particular program. Display of the at least one particular program is then blocked.","Another aspect of the present invention also involves a method for blocking one or more programs amongst a plurality of programming options. The method comprises the operations of: receiving an audio\/video programming signal comprising a plurality of programs, wherein each program is associated with an informational description of the program that is adapted for display in association with the program, the information description comprising at least one word describing the program; receiving an indication of at least one blocking word; receiving an indication to block viewing of a program containing the at least one particular blocking word in the information description associated with any of the plurality of programs; and blocking display of any of the plurality of programs associated with an information description including the at least one blocking word.","Another aspect of the present invention also involves a method for blocking one or more programs amongst a plurality of programming options. The method comprises the operations of: receiving an audio\/video programming signal comprising a plurality of programs, wherein each program is associated with an audio signal; receiving an indication of at least one blocking word; receiving an indication to block viewing of a program containing the at least one blocking word in the audio signal associated with any of the plurality of programs; and blocking display of any of the plurality of programs corresponding with an audio signal including the at least one blocking word.","Yet another aspect of the present invention involves a method for blocking one or more programs amongst a plurality of programming options, the method comprising: receiving an audio\/video programming signal comprising a plurality of programs, each of the plurality of programs being associated with program specific information; receiving an indication to allow play of only programs associate with selected program specific information; and blocking display of all programs not including the selected program specific information.","Finally, aspects of the present invention also involve a method of muting a word in a program audio signal comprising: identifying a word in the audio signal for muting, the word having a first meaning and a second meaning; identifying at least one program characteristic of the program; and muting the particular word as a function of whether the word is used in a program having the at least one characteristic.","Aspects of the present invention involves methods and apparatus adapted to block programming based on various blocking criteria. The blocking criteria may be selected in a number of ways in a highly customizable manner. For example, aspects of the present invention allow for program blocking based upon program start time and end time, channel, program title (complete or partial), program topic, actor, director, other person, rating, day, blocking code, complete or partial word or words, and total viewing time. Various implementations of the present invention can allow any combination of the various blocking criteria. Moreover, the various blocking criteria may be applied individually or in combination, and may be applied in a logical AND or logical OR configuration. Additionally, the various blocking criteria may be replicated, such as for allowing multiple programs to be blocked and set-up for blocking.","The user may establish blocking criteria through an on-screen menu before viewing. The user may also establish blocking criteria during viewing. Blocking criteria may be customized for a plurality of different viewers. Moreover, blocking criteria can be set on a user basis.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0033","num":"0032"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":"100"},"If blocking has not been previously enabled, then program selection and viewing proceeds without any control by a blocking application (operation ). Any time while the A\/V system is on, or at least the component configured to operate in accordance herewith, a user may enable blocking (operation ). As discussed further below, onscreen menus provide one particular input medium for setting up and enabling program blocking on a user basis. When a blocking command is received, the menus are displayed on the television screen, which is discussed further below (operation ).","If blocking has been previously enabled, then the system prompts the user to enter a user identification (\u201cuser ID\u201d) and a user password (operation ). Input of both a user ID and a password is discussed with reference to various embodiments; however, systems may be implemented that require only a user ID, only a password, or some other form of user identification, or potentially no identification at all. The user identification and password allow the system to be configured so that blocking proceeds on a user-by-user basis. In one particular implementation, a master user and associated password may be established, which user has authority to view all programming and to set-up and actuate blocking for other users, as well as define users. In such an implementation, for example, it is possible for a parent (master user) to set up customized blocking parameters for each child in the family (other users). Moreover, in a distributed system, it is possible to set up blocking parameters for numerous users and user set-top boxes.","Aspects of the present invention can also be implemented at television programming distribution equipment, such as the cable head end, and the like. One aspect of the present invention, allows for distribution of blocking parameters. For example, a particular satellite TV subscriber may have a plurality of set-top boxes, each which may allow for independent viewing. In one implementation, when the master user establishes blocking criteria through one set top box, the blocking criteria are stored at the distribution head end, a server, or other remote location. Whenever one of the other set-top boxes are powered on, it sends an identification signal to the head end. Upon recognition of the set-top box, the head end determines whether new blocking codes have been established, and if so, the head end transmits the new blocking codes to the set-top box. The blocking code update continues until all set-top boxes for the subscriber are updated. It is also possible to run the blocking and muting platforms herein at the head end, server, or other remote location and limit or eliminate processing at the user location.","The user ID and password may be entered through an onscreen menu. Due to the inherent limitations of most current remote control devices, which typically only have numeric keys and are lacking in alphabet keys, the user ID and password may be limited to numeric characters for convenience. Additionally, systems conforming to the present invention may be provided with an onscreen keyboard, allow for a keyboard to be connected with the system, and support other interface technology. Moreover, with advances in interface technology and remote control devices, embodiments of the present invention may be adapted so that alpha-numeric characters may be employed for both user ID and password efficiently with the remote.","Upon receipt of a valid user ID and password, the system checks the blocking criteria for the particular user ID accessing the system and applies that blocking criteria to the programming selections available to that user (operation ). Thus, programming viewing proceeds limited to a subset of unblocked programs (operation ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0039","num":"0038"},"figref":["FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIG. 7","FIG. 2","FIG. 7"],"b":["10","1","12","1","1","1","1","1","14"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0040","num":"0039"},"figref":["FIG. 3A","FIGS. 3A and 3B","FIG. 2"],"b":"16"},"In the example of , the program options  for four channels  between 8 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. are shown. The day is Tuesday and it is 8:05 p.m. As such, user  would be blocked in this example from viewing any programming because the \u201cday\u201d blocking criteria is set with \u201cTuesday,\u201d which blocks all viewing for user  on Tuesday.  is an \u201cinfo\u201d screen, which is displayed when a user highlights a program of an onscreen programming guide. In , the program \u201cKiss the Girls\u201d is highlighted, and the user depresses an \u201cinfo\u201d button or similar button on a remote to display . Each program identified in an on-screen programming guide typically includes some information about the program. The program guide and program information is typically stored in set-top box memory, for a cable or satellite system, and is updated periodically or when necessary. Additional information can be provided in the vertical blanking interval (\u201cVBI\u201d). As shown in , the information associated with a program can include the network  (USA\u2122) and channel  (), the title  of the selected program (\u201cKiss the Girls\u201d), some indication of the quality of program  (***), the actors  in the program (Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd), which typically only includes the lead actors, but may be modified to include other actors that may not necessarily be displayed in the info box but can be used to block viewing, the year of the program  (1997), the category  of the program (Mystery), a short textual description of the program , and the program rating  (R). Through activation of various blocking filters, nearly any information associated with a program or programs may be used to block programming.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0042","num":"0041"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 2","FIG. 5","FIG. 6"],"b":["400","40","16","40","410","42","44","410"]},"The system is configured, in one particular implementation, to recognize a master user (operation ). The master user has the authority within the system to establish blocking criteria for other users and to disable blocking criteria for other users. The master user is identified through a user ID and password. The master user has complete viewing permission (operation ). If other users attempt to access the blocking set-up menus (operation ) they are denied access and viewing proceeds subject to whatever blocking is set for the user (operation ). Upon receipt of the correct master user ID and password (operation ), the system prompts the master user for the user ID that blocking parameters will be established for.","As mentioned elsewhere herein, the system may support a number of different users, each with unique blocking parameters. The system will prompt the master user to set-up a new user (operation ). To set up a new user, the master user enters a user name designation and password. The user name may be entered with the remote or through selection of a name from a dropdown menu. The password (or number) is input with the remote or can be generated by the system. When a new user is added, subsequent setup screens will display the new user. Upon receipt of a user ID, the system prompts the master user to establish one or more blocking control parameters that will be applied when the selected user ID accesses the system and attempts to view programming (operation ).",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0045","num":"0044"},"figref":"FIG. 7","b":["46","12","48"]},"Referring again to , numerous blocking filter categories are shown. The blocking categories include: Start time , end time , channel , program , info text , topic , actor , person , director , rating , day , blocking code , word , close captioning , stars , and total viewing time . Such a variety of blocking categories  allow the master user to highly customize the program viewing experience of numerous different potential users. Each blocking category can include numerous individual blocking filters , which can be activated individually or in combination.","The start and end time blocking criteria (, ) allow a user to block viewing for certain portions of time. Such time based blocking may be employed by the user in a number of different ways. For example, if a particular program that the master user wishes to block for a particular user, is typically shown between 8:30 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Tuesdays, then the user may enter an \u201c8:30 p.m.\u201d filter  in the start time category , a \u201c9:00 p.m.\u201d filter  in the end time blocking category  and enter a Tuesday  filter in the day blocking category . The combination of start time, end time and day blocking filters will cause the system to block viewing between 8:30 and 9:00 p.m. on Tuesday.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0048","num":"0047"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 8"],"b":["90","90","92","94","96","98","1","1"]},"Referring again to , the blocking categories include the channel blocking category . The channel blocking category allows a master user to block various particular channels (channel filters) for the various identified users of the system. In one particular implementation of the present invention, the channel blocking category dropdown menu  is populated with channel filters according to the subscription type of the user. Thus, for example, if a user's particular cable, satellite, or other subscription includes a limited number of all the possible channels available, the limited number of channels are displayed in the channel blocking dropdown menu. The user may select any combination of channels, or directly enter a channel number with a remote, for example, each selected channel is blocked from viewing for a selected user or users. By depressing the various arrow keys  on the remote , a master user scrolls to the channel dropdown menu and depresses the enter or select button . Depression of the select button causes the dropdown menu to appear and populate with all the possible channel selections (i.e., all possible channel blocking filters). The user then once again scrolls through the various channel selections with the arrow keys, and by hitting the \u201cselect\u201d or \u201cblock\u201d button on the remote, highlights a channel for blocking. If the user selects the channel a second time, then the channel is no longer highlighted and will not be blocked. The user may select any number of possible channels in this way. Channels can be shown by network affiliation, e.g., NBC\u2122, ABC\u2122, Showtime\u2122, etc., can be shown by stations number, e.g., 4, 7, 250, etc., combination of station and number, or in separate\/distinct categories.","The program blocking category  allows a user to block one or more particular programs. This blocking criteria dropdown menu  is populated whenever the program guide is updated. Each possible program currently viewable, depending on the time range of the program menu, may be selected through this blocking criteria. When a program is selected, it may be blocked in a number of different ways. Referring again to , if the user selects the \u201cdaily\u201d button , the blocking application will search through all program possibilities each day and block all particular instances of the program. If the user, for example, recognizes that the program is typically shown on a particular station, such as NBC\u2122, then the user may input NBC\u2122 in the channel category  and the program in the program category. In which case the application will block all instances of the program on that particular selected channel, but will not block all instances of the program that may be shown on other channels. To populate the program guide each program is transmitted in association with identifiers unique to the program. The blocking application is configured to recognize the program identifiers and compare them with the program blocking in blocked instances of programs that have been set up by the master user for blocking.","Referring again to , a topical blocking category  is also included in some particular implementations of the present invention. Many programs are transmitted with certain topical identifiers associated therewith, such as \u201cmystery,\u201d \u201cadult,\u201d and \u201caction.\u201d The movie \u201cKiss the Girls\u201d discussed above with reference to , is considered a \u201cmystery,\u201d for example, and includes a \u201cmystery\u201d  topical identifier. If the user would like to block all instances of programming that are associated with the \u201cadult\u201d topical identifier, then the user populates the topic blocking category with the adult blocking filter, which would be provided in the dropdown menu . As such, all instances of adult programming that are associated with the adult topical identifier would be blocked from viewing for the particular user. All possible instances, in the above example, would be selected in . If the master user were to select weekly  or monthly  with respect to a topical filter or filters, the system would default to the all possible instances identifier as the master user had not limited the topical identifier to a particular day or other blocking criteria.","The info text blocking category  allows a user to block programming based on words in the information box. The info text dropdown menu  can be populated, alphabetically, with any number of possible words or word combinations that a user may want to block programming associated with. For example, a parent may want to block any program associated with the word \u201ckiller\u201d or the words \u201cserial killer.\u201d Referring again to the example of \u201cKiss the Girls,\u201d if the user had activated either the \u201ckiller\u201d or \u201cserial killer\u201d or both info text blocking filters, then a user for which the filters were activated would not be able to view the film \u201cKiss the Girls.\u201d Words may also be entered through a plug-in keyboard, an onscreen keyboard, or the like.","Below the info text blocking category is an actor blocking category. This category allows the master user to block all programs transmitted in association with a particular actor. Typically programs are associated with lead actors and actresses. Actors and actresses with lesser roles may not be associated with the programming and thus may not be blocked with the actor blocking criteria. As mentioned earlier, it is possible to transmit a larger list of actors for a particular program and store the list in system memory, even if the additional actors are not displayed in the info field. It is also possible to store additional information about a program, at a remote location, e.g., cable head end and server, and block based on the remotely stored information . In the example of , the actress Pamela Anderson has been entered in the actor category. Thus, all instances of programming that are associated with Pamela Anderson will be blocked from viewing for user . Such programming may include news shows where Pamela Anderson is being interviewed as well as a sitcom or movie in which Pamela Anderson is playing a lead role and is associated with the programming when it is transmitted or broadcast and received by the system. The person and director blocking categories (, ) are similar to the actor category in that they are configured to block a particular person or director associated with particular programming. The dropdown menus (, , ) are populated with actors, directors, and people (typically people in the news, politicians, and other \u201cfamous\u201d people), that the master user may select.","The rating blocking category  allows the master user to block programming with certain ratings associated therewith. For example, if the master user selects the PG rating, then all shows with a PG rating or less, such as G rating, will be available for viewing. All programming with a rating higher than PG, such as PG-13 and R, are blocked from viewing. In one particular implementation of the present invention, the MPAA ratings are available in the dropdown menu as well as other various rating systems typically associated with programming. The ratings may be displayed according to relative associations such as G, PG, PG-13, R, NC-17, X, for example. As with other blocking criteria set forth herein as different rating schemes are developed and deployed, these various rating schemes would be uploaded to the system memory and populate the dropdown menu .","The day blocking category  allows a user to limit various blocking to particular days of the week. This particular blocking category will oftentimes be employed in conjunction with the temporal blocking applications set forth in . So, for example, when the user selects a particular start and end time and day of the week, and then selects the weekly application of , then that particular time and day is blocked on a weekly basis for the selected user. If the user would like to block a particular start and end time on a daily basis, then this may be achieved at least three different ways. The user may enter the start and end time (, ) and then populate each day of the week in the day blocking category  (i.e., select Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday day blocking filters in the day dropdown menu ). The user may also select the daily blocking application  or the all possible instances blocking application  of .","The blocking criteria also includes a blocking code selection . In one particular implementation of the present invention, a blocking code is transmitted with a particular program and populates the information field when a user selects an \u201cinfo\u201d button on their remote for a particular program. The blocking codes may also be published in paper-based programming guides or available through other media. Thus, for example, a particular program will always be associated with a particular blocking code. Alternatively, various topics, channels, and the like, may also be associated with a blocking code. By entering the blocking code in the category window or by selecting the appropriate blocking code in the dropdown menu , the master user blocks all particular programming associated with the blocking code.","A word blocking category  is also provided in various aspects of the present invention. The word blocking category allows a user to prospectively block programming that employs various foul or objectionable words. For example, a user may allow certain programming at various times of day and on various channels; however, should the programming use a particular word, then that programming would be blocked in future instances. The category may further be tailored to allow blocking after some number of uses of the word. In this way, the master user can adapt programming that they are not familiar with for viewing or not viewing depending on whether or not that programming crosses a certain comfort-line of the master user. Objectionable words that will result in blocking of a program may be identified by comparing words in the blocking list with a close captioning stream associated with the program to determine whether the specified word is used in the program. Various word blocking filters are provided in the dropdown menu . It is also possible to group words in various levels of profanity, and the user to activate filtering on a group basis.","Implementations of the present invention can also include close captioning and stars blocking categories (, ) and associated filter dropdown menus (, ). The close captioning allows programs to be blanked that are not accompanied with close captioning. The stars blocking category allows a user to block programs that fall below a certain \u201cstar\u201d rating, e.g., no stars, one star (*), two stars (**), etc. Finally, a total viewing time blocking category  is also provided in some implementations of the present invention. This blocking category allows a user to view programming for certain allotted times. Used in conjunction with the blocking application screen of , the master user can configure the total viewing time on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. Thus, for example, if the master user enters ten hours in the total viewing time, and selects daily, weekly or monthly, then the selected user would be blocked for all programming beyond ten hours a day, a week, or a month, respectively.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0059","num":"0058"},"figref":["FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 9","FIG. 8"],"b":["134","136","44","134","42","106"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0060","num":"0059"},"figref":["FIG. 10","FIG. 9","FIG. 10","FIG. 9"],"b":["138","16","141","44"]},"In some configurations of the present invention, the block button on the remote is configured for dual use. In such a configuration, the block button both sets the system in the blocking mode and then when a particular criteria is highlighted, the user depresses the block button rather than the select button to enable that blocking filter. By selecting the blocking button a second time when the blocking identifier is highlighted in the window, the blocking filter is disabled.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0062","num":"0061"},"figref":"FIG. 11","b":["142","144","146"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0063","num":"0062"},"figref":["FIG. 12","FIG. 7","FIG. 8","FIG. 9"],"b":["1200","1210"]},"If a non-master user ID and password are entered or the incorrect user ID and password are entered then blocking setup discontinues and regular programming goes on subject to any existing blocking that may occur (operation ). When the user ID and password are received, the master user may enter various blocking filters in various categories described herein (operation ). In one example, blocking filters are activated to dropdown menus in each of a plurality of blocking categories, such as is described in . In an alternative embodiment, various blocking filters in various blocking categories may be entered through a blocking menu such as is shown in . The examples of  are merely illustrative of particular implementations of the present invention. Numerous possible configurations of onscreen menus and blocking filter definition-type implementations are possible. Moreover, various particular blocking filters discussed herein are set forth in various combinations. Other combinations, other blocking categories, and other blocking filter variations are possible.","When a blocking filter is established in a blocking category the system applies the blocking category to at least one user (operation ) to control program play. If multiple users have been defined in the system, then the master user may select which particular users to apply the blocking filter. The screen menu of  is one example of a particular implementation whereby a master user may select particular users to apply blocking filters. The screen is populated with users when the users are defined in the system. Further, the menu of  also provides a means by which the user may establish the frequency at which blocking filters are employed for a particular user. For example in  it is possible to configure systems so that blocking filters are applied in all possible instances on a daily, on a weekly, and on a monthly basis. Various configurations of the temporal blocking application screen of  may be employed. It is further possible to define particular days, particular weeks, particular months in which to apply blocking filters. These temporal applications may be done in combination with the start and end time filter and the day filter of  to further tailor temporal blocking.","After at least one filter is defined, regular viewing proceeds subject to blocking setup. If the master user continues viewing programs then no blocking will occur; however, should a new user activate the system, upon entry of the user ID and password, the system will allow programming subsequent to blocking filters. The master user may activate blocking for particular users, which blocking activation is stored in the system memory. Upon activation of the system, such as power on of a set-top box, the system will recognize that blocking has been enabled for at least one viewer and will request entry of a user ID and password. If the user ID and password matches that for which blocking has been enabled, then the system will allow viewing subject to program blocking (operation ).","Aspects of the present invention also involve method, apparatus, and systems to discriminate between and mute words for an audio or audio\/video presentation that may be objectionable in one context and not objectionable in a different context, such as homonyms and heteronyms (hereafter \u201ccontext specific words\u201d). For example, the word \u201cdam\u201d, when used to describe a barrier constructed across a waterway, would not be objectionable to most people, but the word \u201cdam\u201d when used to express anger or disappointment may be objectionable. As such, methods and apparatus conforming to the present invention can tailor muting based on a wide variety of contextual parameters, which may be employed alone or in combination, and may be employed in a logical AND or logical OR scenario. Further, such contextual tailoring, may be employed on a user-by-user basis, so that some user's are exposed to programming with different muting than other users. Such tailoring might be appropriate where a parent, for example, does not want his or her children exposed to words that may be offensive, regardless of any context specific use. For example, a parent may desire to mute all instances of the word \u201cbitch,\u201d regardless of whether it is used derogatorily or used to refer to a female dog. In one particular implementation, discussed in further detail below, the context parameters by which muting discrimination occurs, are similar or the same to the blocking parameters discussed above.","Various applications and systems for muting objectionable words in an audio or audio\/visual presentation exist or are described in the art. Some such muting platforms are described in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/694,873 titled \u201cMultimedia Content Navigation and Playback\u201d filed on Oct. 23, 2000, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09\/695,102 titled \u201cDelivery of Navigation Data For Playback of Audio and Video Content\u201d filed on Oct. 23, 2000, provisional application No. 60\/561,851 titled \u201cApparatus, System, and Method for Filtering Objectionable Portions of an Audio Visual Presentation\u201d filed on Apr. 12, 2004, and provisional application No. 60\/497,769 titled \u201cMethod and Apparatus for Controlling Play of an Audio Signal\u201d filed on Aug. 26, 2004, U.S. application Ser. No. 08\/997,531 titled \u201cCensoring Assembly Adapted for Use with Closed Caption Television Programming\u201d filed Dec. 23, 1997 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6,075,550, issued Jun. 13, 2000, U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/218,024 titled \u201cCensoring Device to Censor Closed Captioning of Video Signal\u201d filed on Dec. 22, 1998, and U.S. application Ser. No. 09\/497,187 titled \u201cCensoring Assembly Adapted for Use with Closed Caption Television Programming\u201d filed on Feb. 3, 2000, all of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.","In electronic, software, or combinations of the same, various particular implementations of the present invention may be tailored to any audio\/video muting platform, such as those referenced immediately above, to discriminate between and mute words for an audio or audio\/video presentation that may be objectionable in one context and not objectionable in a different context.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0070","num":"0069"},"figref":["FIG. 13","FIG. 14","FIG. 14","FIG. 6","FIG. 14"],"b":["1300","148","150","152"]},"Referring again to , as the audio stream is analyzed for words to mute, a comparison is done against the mute list (operation ). As the audio plays, it is compared with the muting list, and, conventionally, when a word is identified in the audio that is also included in the muting list, then that particular word or the sentence associated with that word or some portion of the audio is muted. To determine if an audio sequence includes a word in a word muting list, the word muting list is compared to a close captioning stream associated with the program to determine whether a specified word in the muting list is used in the program. In accordance with aspects of the present invention, a further step occurs before actual muting occurs, and that is to determine whether the word identified for muting is a context specific type word (), and, if so, whether muting in this instance or context is appropriate (, ). Depending on the outcome, the word is muted (operation ) or not (operation ). The supplemental muting operation is generally performed by comparing a word identified for muting, with various programming criteria referred to as supplemental word muting selection.","It is possible that each word would have its own blocking criteria. However, it is also possible to pre-program the criteria for each word based on word logic, and the user interface would simply have a global option to turn Smart Muting\u2122 on or off, which may be referred to as ClearPlay\u2122 Smart Mute\u2122 technology.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0073","num":"0072"},"figref":["FIG. 15","FIG. 16","FIG. 15","FIG. 15"],"b":["154","156","158","160","162","164","166","168","170","172","174","176","178","160","162"]},"The channel supplemental word muting selection , tailors muting to a particular channel. For example, the use of the word \u201cdamn\u201d by the Discovery Channel is not muted, but the use of the word \u201cdamn\u201d on \u201call movie channels\u201d is muted. Each of the supplemental word muting selections are associated with a dropdown menu  providing selectable lists of all possible selections. The dropdown menus further include a \u201cmute\u201d or \u201cdon't mute\u201d button , so that a particular filter can be used to cause context specific word filtering or not cause context specific word filtering.","The program supplemental word muting selection category  allows a user to tailor muting on a program specific basis. Thus, for example, when the word \u201cdamn\u201d is used in a program identified in a program supplemental word muting selection, then the word \u201cdamn\u201d would be muted. Other uses of the word damn in programs not identified would be allowed. In an alternative implementation, selected program supplemental word muting selections illustrate those programs for which muting will not occur, which, depending on the word usage and the number of programs may provide a more efficient vehicle by which the master user can set up supplemental word muting selections.","The topic supplemental word muting selection  allows a user to tailor specific context word muting based upon the program topic in which the word occurs. Topics include mystery, adult, action, horror, and the like. As with a program, topical supplemental word muting may be configured so that topics identified in a supplemental word muting selection cause muting, or topics identified in the supplemental word muting selection do not cause muting. Thus, for example, if the topic is history and is selected as a supplemental word muting selection then muting may not occur depending on the configuration. The actor, person, rating, day, and blocking code supplemental word muting selections (, , , , and ) proceed in a similar manner. Thus, depending on which particular supplemental word muting selections are activated, then context specific word muting will proceed accordingly. For example, in the actor supplemental word muting selection, the actor Howard Stern is selected. Further, the actor selection is configured as a mute. Thus, in any program identified or associated with Howard Stern, dual context words will be muted. Should the user have selected un-mute, then any program with Howard Stern would not result in muting of dual context words. If no supplemental word muting selections are activated, then all dual context use words are muted independent of any particular context in which the word occurs.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0077","num":"0076"},"figref":"FIG. 17","b":["1700","1710","1720","1730","1740"]},"An embodiment of the present invention may include a remote configured with a muting setup button. Upon depression of the muting setup button, activation of the muting setup procedure will occur (operation ). Such muting setup will proceed in the manner similar to the program blocking setup including requesting a user ID and password and future application of the muting criteria as a function of user ID. If a proper master user ID and password are received then a word mute list, such as shown in , will be displayed. Further, after the particular words for muting are identified, a display such as shown in  will be presented on the monitor. After the user has completed supplemental word muting selection, then the supplemental word filtering application of  will be shown. Upon completion of the setup of the screen of , playback will proceed with the muting and context use specific word filtering employed.","Aspects of the present invention may be employed in audio\/video programming signals received from any distribution medium including, but not limited to, cable distribution mediums, satellite distribution mediums, computer network distribution mediums, broadcast distribution medium. The medium may be characterized as digital or analog, or combinations thereof, depending on any particular distribution arrangement. Further, the audio\/video signal may be transmitted from a storage medium, such as a DVD, CD-ROM, video disc, tape, or the like. The methods and menus discussed herein and the blocking arrangements discussed herein may be implemented in hardware or in one or more processors adapted specifically to operate in accordance with the various embodiments discussed herein. The processor may be a stand-alone processor, or may be a processor further adapted to perform various other programming display operations. For example, one or more processors in the cable or satellite set-top box, or in a personal video recorder, or other signal processing platform, may include specific code and operating instructions arranged in accordance with aspects and embodiments of the invention discussed herein.","Particular embodiments of the present invention may be deployed in the context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed on a processor. Program modules may include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer-executable instructions, associated data structures, and program modules represent examples of program code means for executing step of the methods and selection menus related thereto disclosed herein. The particular sequence of any operations of a particular method, the appearance and particular arrangement of categories and filters in a particular menu or context specific word selection menu or arrangement, and any executable instructions, data structures, or the like may be performed in various orders, combinations, etc.","Blocking filters and selections relating thereto, muting word lists and selections related thereto, and the like may be stored in memory of the particular processing platform arranged in accordance with aspects of the present invention. It is also possible, to store such blocking filters and selections related thereto, muting word lists and selections relating thereto, and the like at a location remote from the processing platform, so long as a network connection or other data connection exists with the processing platform. Aspects of the present invention are applicable to all types of programming, whether commercial or subscription, and irrespective of the distribution medium, including news, entertainment, sit-com, movie, informational, reality, advertising, sports, talk, adventure, travel, weather, history, self-help, buying, pay-per-view, shopping, spiritual, live, drama, children's, music (with or without images), health, fitness, game, and other programming.","For any embodiment, the user settings may be sent to a server associated with the user account. (i.e. send information that specifies that this user account wants to block all instances of this program). The user information could be sent to the server via modem\/network\/cable\/etc. The server can then profile all upcoming programs and pre-determine which programs the user wants to block based on their blocking criteria. The server can prepare a new programming guide unique to the user that specifies which programs are going to be blocked, and then set the customized programming guide to the user device via modem\/network\/wireless\/cable\/etc. The customized program guide could have a \u201cblocked\u201d flag associated with the particular program, and the device will behave according to the flag (so it doesn't need to process all the blocking criteria at the client level\u2014where processing might be limited). The onscreen programming guide interface can also display that the program will be blocked based on the block flag, but not allow play of the blocked program."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 3A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 6"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0020","num":"0019"},"figref":"FIG. 7"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0023","num":"0022"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"figref":"FIG. 11"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0025","num":"0024"},"figref":"FIG. 12"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0026","num":"0025"},"figref":"FIG. 13"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0027","num":"0026"},"figref":"FIG. 14"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":"FIG. 15"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":"FIG. 16"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":"FIG. 17"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
