---
title: High cycle MEMS device
abstract: A high life cycle and low voltage MEMS device. In an aspect of the invention, separate support posts are disposed to prevent a suspended switch pad from touching the actuation pad while permitting the switch pad to ground a signal line. In another aspect of the invention, cantilevered support beams are made from a thicker material than the switching pad. Increased thickness material in the cantilever tends to keep the switch flat in its resting position. Features of preferred embodiments include dimples in the switch pad to facilitate contact with a signal line and serpentine cantilevers arranged symmetrically to support the switch pad.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07142076&OS=07142076&RS=07142076
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07142076
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040614
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This is a divisional of application Ser. No. 10\/191,812, filed Jul. 9, 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,919,784, which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119(e) from provisional application Ser. No. 60\/330,405, filed on Oct. 18, 2001.","This invention was made with Government assistance under DARPA F33615-99-C-1519. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","The field of the invention is micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS).","MEMS devices are macroscale devices including a pad that is movable in response to electrical signaling. The movable pad, such as a membrane or cantilevered metal arm, moves in response to an electrical signal to cause an electrical effect. One example is a membrane variable capacitor. The membrane deforms in response to an electrical signal. The membrane itself is part of a capacitor, and the distance between the membrane and another portion of the capacitor changes the capacitance. Another MEMS device is an RF (radio frequency) ohmic switch. In a typical MEMS ohmic switch, application of an electrical signal causes a cantilevered metal arm to either ground or remove from ground state a signal line by completing or breaking ohmic contact with the signal line. Dielectric layers in MEMS devices are used to prevent the membrane, cantilevered arm, or other moving switch pad from making physical contact with other portions of the MEMS device.","MEMS lifetimes continue to be shorter than would make their use widespread. Successes in the range of 1\u20133 billion \u201ccold\u201d switching cycles have been reported. High frequency applications are especially suited to MEMS devices, but can exceed reported switching cycles in ordinary usage. Also, there is typically a difference between \u201chot\u201d and \u201ccold\u201d switching lifetimes. \u201cHot\u201d switching, i.e., a switching test conducted with signals present, is a different measure of operational conditions that usually shows a shorter lifetime than \u201ccold\u201d switching tests would indicate. This is mentioned only to identify that test results are understood with reference to the test conditions. Both types of tests are valid and generally accepted in the art, but only the same types of tests can be directly compared.","A common cause of failure is a stuck switch pad, recognized by experience to be the sticking of the movable switch pad to a dielectric layer. The exact mechanisms for this sticking are not completely understood. Sticking has been attributed to charging of dielectric layers used to isolate electrical contact between the moving switch pad of a MEMS device and an actuation component of the MEMS device. Another common cause of failure and operational inefficiency is the tendency of the switch pad to deform due to spring force. It can move further away from an actuation pad, first leading to an increased voltage required for operation of the switch and eventually leading to a failure.","A high life cycle MEMS device is provided by the invention. In an aspect of the invention, separate support posts are disposed to prevent a suspended switch pad from touching the actuation pad while permitting the switch pad to ground a signal line. In another aspect of the invention, cantilevered support beams are made from a thicker material than the switching pad. Thicker material in the cantilever tends to keep the switch pad flat in its resting position. Features of particular preferred embodiments include dimples in the switch pad to facilitate contact with a signal line and serpentine cantilevers arranged symmetrically to support the switch pad.","Aspects of the invention are directed generally to the cycle life, manufacturing yield, and electrical efficiency of MEMS devices, e.g., shunt switches. For example, aspects of the invention produce electrical efficiency, i.e., low voltage operation, by addressing the issues of residual stress and electrical contact in the switch. The residual stress in the switch adversely affects the required actuation voltage by causing the switch to bend such that the distance between it and the signal path increases. Cantilevered support of a moving switch pad in the invention provides for a strong return-to-flat tendency. As a distance between an actuation pad and a moving switch pad is maintained, a consistent and low actuation voltage is possible. Cycle life and, to some extent, electrical efficiency are also addressed by an aspect of the invention that permits an exposed actuation pad. In prior devices with dielectric layers used to prevent contact between the actuation pad and moving (shunt) pad, an unresolved issue of attraction between the actuation pad and the moving pad leads to low cycle lifetimes as the actuation pad and moving switch pad become stuck. Support posts in preferred embodiments of the invention permit an exposed actuation pad or an actuation pad with dielectric. A dimpled switch pad feature facilitates good electrical contact to the signal path or a variable capacitor operation. Embodiments of the invention may be formed in a Group III\u2013V material system. In addition, the invention has been demonstrated to work with a silicon based integration. Use of silicon requires a deposition of a polymer upon the silicon substrate prior to formation of the MEMS device.","Aspects of the invention may be applied separately, while particularly preferred embodiments make simultaneous use of aspects of the invention. Referring now to , a preferred embodiment RF MEMS shunt switch is shown. The function of the RF MEMS switch of  is to control a signal line  to selectively permit the flow of signals through the signal line  in response to a control signal. Signal flow is permitted when a metal switch pad  suspended over the signal line  is not in contact with the signal line . In the preferred embodiment of , the relaxed state of the switch is the state when signal flow is permitted to pass through the signal line . In the relaxed state, cantilevers  hold the metal switch pad  above the signal line . Application of a control signal to an actuation pad (or pads)  will ground the signal line  by pulling the metal switch pad  into contact with the signal line  and a ground .","In the application of a MEMS switch, this operation will be repeated many times. One life- and efficiency-limiting problem of conventional switches is the tendency of the thin metal switch pad  to bow out away from the signal line  due to the forces applied by flexible cantilevers . In an aspect of the invention, cantilevers  are arranged to create a balanced switch. The cantilevers  preferably have a serpentine shape and are arranged symmetrically to be disposed proximate corners of the metal switch pad , which, in the preferred embodiment, has a generally rectangular shape. With other shaped metal switch pads, symmetry is preferably maintained in the arrangement of the cantilevers  and will depend upon the shape.","Another feature of the cantilevers  concerns their relative thickness in relation to the metal switch pad .  are SEM images of a prototype MEMS device of the invention. Magnification in  is greater than in . An additional selective deposition process is used to thicken the cantilevers after an initial deposition process forms the cantilevers  and the metal switch pad . The thickened cantilevers  have increased mechanical strength. Their higher spring constant provides a restoring force that keeps the switch flat. In preferred embodiments, the metal switch pad  has a thickness in the approximate range of 0.1 \u03bcm to 3 \u03bcm, and the cantilevers  have an additional thickness in the approximate range of 0.3 \u03bcm to 1.5 \u03bcm. A particularly preferred embodiment has cantilevers with an additional 0.75 \u03bcm to 1.0 \u03bcm thickness.","The importance of this feature is that the flatness of the switch can be maintained even though the switch is made very thin, and these flat, thin switches allow low voltage operation to be achieved. Tests were conducted on prototypes to compare the actuation voltage required. Without thickened cantilevers, an average actuation voltage of about 15\u201317 volts was measured, while thickened cantilever prototypes had an average actuation voltage of about 8 volts. The thickened cantilevers should also increase switch lifetime by inhibiting the tendency of the mechanical forces to gradually bow the metal switch pad away from the actuation pads until the gap becomes great enough to prevent the actuation voltage from operating the switch.","Another feature addressing actuation voltage and cycle lifetime is a preferred dimpling of the metal switch pad in the area where the metal switch pad makes contact.  is a schematic side view illustrating, in exaggerated fashion, a dimpled metal switch pad  and  is an SEM image of a metal switch pad portion of a prototype including a dimpled metal switch pad. A dimple , as seen in , is formed over the signal line , but may also be aligned with the grounds . The dimple  is created by partially etching the sacrificial layer upon which the metal switch pad  is formed. The partial etching creates a depression. The dimple  is formed in the depression when the metal actuation pad  is formed. The metal actuation pad with dimple or dimples is then released upon consumption of the sacrificial layer. The effect is that the center portion of the metal switch pad  is lowered at the dimple  such that when the metal switch pad  is pulled down the first thing to contact the signal line  is the dimple . The basic  structure also provides for a variable capacitor when the range of the pull down of the metal switch pad  does not include contact with the signal line . The dimpling is an efficient way to create variable capacitors by adjusting the dimple depth and thereby not making contact to the signal line. Changing the gap between signal and ground changes the capacitance through an actuation voltage applied in an actuation pad .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIGS. 5A and 5B","FIGS. 5A and 5B","FIG. 6"],"b":["26","28","10","18","26","12","16","24","28","22","26","12","26","16","16","26","26","10","14"]},"While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it should be understood that other modifications, substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications, substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, which should be determined from the appended claims.","Various features of the invention are set forth in the appended claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIGS. 2A and 2B"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 5A"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 5B","FIG. 5A"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
