---
title: Seismic activity monitor based on optical fiber Bragg gratings
abstract: Fiber Bragg gratings (FBG) seismic activity sensors coupled in sensor arrays provide increased sensitivity to seismic activities, lower strain values and an absence of EMI allowing detection of troop and vehicle movements based on ground vibrations generating seismic signals. The FBG sensor head features a spring-mass configuration with a head surface, fiber optic cable and the FBG sensor attached to a spring that stretches during the acceleration of the mass. Waves propagating inside the earth and along the ground arriving at the sensor locations cause movement of the seismic activity sensors embedded in the ground and this movement induces an acceleration-dependent change in the FBG gratings placed on the sensors. In multiple sensor configurations, the cable will be connected to the other sensors in the network. FBG sensors, sensor arrays and sensor methods are provided in several embodiments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07122783&OS=07122783&RS=07122783
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07122783
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041102
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, and licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without payment to us of any royalties thereon.","The present invention relates to seismic monitoring apparatus and methods. More particularly, the present invention relates to sensor systems for monitoring seismic activity based on optical fiber Bragg Gratings.","Troop and vehicle movements induce ground vibrations, with attendant weak seismic signals emanating from the location of such activity. These seismic signals are always produced at some level, and can be converted to valuable information for the detection and monitoring of movements within an area of interest when the monitoring technique is sufficiently sensitive. The prior art devices are unable to detect small seismic signals. The prior art devices are able to detect relatively large seismic signals from moving vehicles or perhaps large troop formations, but today's seismic detector cannot detect an individual enemy soldier or terrorist sneaking up on tiptoe to attack a perimeter guard. The prior art seismic detectors cannot detect small seismic signals because they generally lack adequate sensitivity. Prior art seismic detectors can adequately detect and measure seismic activity at strain values of about 10\u03bc. Up until now, there is no available seismic detector that can detect and measure at the lower strain values of below 1.0 \u03bc.","Another problem with prior art seismic detecting equipment has been the placement of the seismic sensor in such a way that the user is not observed or detected by the opposing forces. When prior art seismic sensors are placed in an array with a group of other sensors such an arrangement typically requires individual wire or wireless links between the detectors and a control station. Linking prior art detectors in this way suffers from a number of disadvantages, limitations and shortcomings including the equipment cost and a detectable signature, particularly when wireless links are used, along with difficulties caused by lack of adequate connector reliability. Thus, there has been a long-felt need for a seismic detector that can detect and measure at the lower strain values of about 1.0\u03bc that does not suffer from the prior art's disadvantages, limitations and shortcomings of high equipment cost, detectable signature and lack of adequate connector reliability. Needless to say, if the seismic signals can be identified accurately in a remote and real-time mode, this would greatly aid intelligence gathering, battlefield monitoring and battle planning for military and law enforcement personnel, as well as numerous civilian activities such as earthquake detection and monitoring, subsurface geologic probing and mineral prospecting using controlled seismic events and precision monitoring systems.","The present invention answers the long-felt need for a seismic detector for lower strain values of about 0.5\u03bc strain that does that does not suffer from the disadvantages, shortcomings and limitations of prior art arrangements by using multiple filter Bragg gratings seismic activity sensors in a simple, low-cost continuous fiber loop or strand. The first step of seismic monitoring is basic detection. To perform basic detection, a highly sensitive sensor is especially important to collect all the seismic waves efficiently. The fiber Bragg gratings seismic activity sensor and sensor array provide a number of advantages that are well suited for this purpose, and in general for military sensing and detection systems.","It is an object of the present invention to provide a fiber Bragg Gratings seismic activity sensor with increased sensitivity to terrestrial movements.","It is another object of the present invention to provide an array of fiber Bragg Gratings seismic activity sensors with lower strain values, increased sensitivity to terrestrial movements and an absence of electromagnetic interference (EMI).","It is yet another object of the present invention to provide an array of fiber Bragg gratings seismic activity sensors with lower strain values, increased sensitivity to terrestrial movements and an absence of EMI with multiple sensors arranged in a simple, low-cost continuous fiber loop.","These and other objects and advantages can now be attained by this invention's fiber Bragg gratings seismic activity sensors comprising a group of fiber Bragg grating (FBG) seismic sensor heads connected into a multiple sensor network with a simple, low-cost continuous fiber loop to provide lower strain values, increased sensitivity to terrestrial movements and an absence of EMI without suffering from the disadvantages, shortcomings and limitations of conventional prior art seismic detectors. In general terms, fiber Bragg Gratings (FBG) can induce permanent changes in the refractive index of an optical fiber by exposing its core to ultraviolet light, and when the exposure is made with an interferometer or through a phase mask it is possible to write a periodically varying refractive index grating within the core of the fiber. The reflectivity, bandwidth and central wavelength of Bragg structures are defined by the period and length of the phase mask and exposure time used. The FBG is considered to be a spring-mass mechanical system with an acceleration that is pre-positional to displacement in accordance with Hooke's Law. The FBG seismic sensor of the present invention has numerous applications for monitoring seismic activity, including the detection and monitoring of both natural seismic phenomena such as earthquakes and man-made seismic events such as the movements of individuals, troops and vehicles in a military or law enforcement environment.","The FBG seismic sensor, sensor array and methods of the present invention provide numerous advantages over conventional seismic sensors including improved sensitivity, a higher signal-to-noise ratio leading to better detection, measurement, characterization and geo-location capability, a simple, rugged, low-cost, multiple sensor strand and loop array arrangement that saves size, weight, power, cost and complexity and provides increased reliability and field-service lifetime.","The FBG seismic sensor of the present invention is a smaller and much more sensitive monitor than conventional prior art sensors, and it can be fabricated to be immune from the deleterious effects of EMI. The FBG seismic sensor can detect seismic signals with extremely high sensitivity with dynamic strain sensitivity better than 10\u03bc strain. Further, such a fiber optic sensor is lightweight, compact and has very low power consumption. The diameter of a bare fiber is only 125 \u03bcm and most fiber Bragg gratings are only one to several centimeters long. An FBG seismic sensor is also resistant to corrosion and fatigue due to the inherent properties of optical fiber glass. Based on these and other advantageous features, the FBG seismic sensor can be easily installed and hidden even in harsh battlefield environments. This invention's FBG seismic sensor is passive, which eliminates any requirements to provide electrical power to the sensor head, and it transfers optical signals that are confined to optical cables, therefore it is intrinsically immune to EMI and has no detectable radio frequency emissions or thermal signatures to compare to the background environment. The FBG sensor is appropriate for multiple-sensor applications because many of these gratings can either be deployed in series or parallel. In this respect, many of the multiplexing techniques, including wavelength division multiplexing (WDM), time division multiplexing (TDM), and spatial division multiplexing (SDM), along with the necessary components and devices recently developed in the telecommunication industry can be directly brought to bear here, which makes it possible for networked or arrayed FBG sensors to cover a large area and provide additional information such as the three-dimensional position coordinates and velocity vectors of the object under detection. Thus, it is possible to deploy hundreds of FBG sensors in a given area to continuously monitor seismic activities of either natural or unnatural origin. These advantages of the FBG fiber optic sensor make it an ideal candidate for a seismic activity monitoring system that does not suffer from the disadvantages, limitations and shortcomings of prior art seismic sensors.","Connecting this invention's detectors in a continuous fiber loop eliminates both the wireless signature and connector difficulties encountered with prior art devices. The optical filter Bragg gratings seismic sensors connected in a continuous fiber loop also solves other prior art problems by deploying sensors with a significantly minimized electronic signature and simplified interconnections. The present invention contemplates both a single FBG seismic sensor and an array of FBG seismic sensors configured for numerous seismic detecting applications and a method for sensing seismic disturbances in real-time with multiple FBG sensor gratings. Potential uses of the present invention include monitoring several categories of seismic activity such as the detection and monitoring of earthquakes and other naturally occurring seismic phenomena, the detection and monitoring of individual, troop, and vehicle movements by military or police forces and subsurface geologic probing and mineral prospecting using controlled seismic events and precision monitoring systems.","Referring now to the drawings,  illustrates the basic principle of seismic detection used in this invention's FBG seismic sensor apparatus. Ground vibrations created by the movement of troops or vehicles act as sources of various seismic signals. The seismic waves propagate from the location of the human or vehicular activity, and spread out in all directions along spherical wave fronts. Some of the waves will propagate along the surface as a direct stress wave. Others will travel through the earth's interior. When these interior waves encounter the interface of two layers with different physical properties, a portion of the wave will reflect back toward the surface. Waves from all possible interior directions together with surface waves propagating along the ground surface may arrive at the sensor locations and cause movement of the sensors embedded in the ground, with this movement inducing an acceleration-dependent change in the FBG gratings. The properties of the seismic waveforms recorded by the detection system are closely related to the source activity that caused the ground vibrations. Thus, by detecting and analyzing the frequency, amplitude, arrival time and other information from the seismic waveforms, it is possible to identify many details of the source of the ground vibrations, which for a military scenario would include information such as the speed, invasion direction and number of troops and vehicles. In a law enforcement environment the same parameters could provide information such as the speed, direction and number of intruders.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0021","num":"0020"},"figref":"FIG. 2","b":["10","10","11","12","13","13","14","12","15","13","15","13","12"]},"By adjusting the mechanical parameters of the spring\/mass configuration, the natural response frequency of the system can be mechanically tuned within an adequate range in order to best match to the spectral characteristics of the seismic wave sources. The FBG sensor head  has a compact size and a low mass of only a few grams, obtaining great advantages in that the sensor can be easily embedded and hidden in the battlefield. A means for damping  is also included on the FBG sensor head . Critical damping is provided so that the mass\/spring system will return quickly to its ready state after detecting a signal (<1 \u03bcs). This critical damping is achieved in either of two ways. One approach is shown in , where a Faraday induction loop  and a permanent magnet  provide the needed damping means. The small, induced current from the damping means  is, of course, properly shielded so that no electromagnetic signal is emitted from the sensor head . A second approach for damping utilizes viscous oil, which has the advantage of not requiring electromagnetic shielding.","In addition to the desired strain signal, the FBG sensor  is also sensitive to undesired environmental temperature variations due to thermal expansion of the fiber. The present invention includes temperature compensation in order to identify and then separate out this undesirable influence. Integrating the FBG sensor  and demodulator grating  in close proximity to one another on the surface of sensor head  accomplishes this. The FBG seismic sensor  is coupled to both strains and temperature changes in the sensor head  where acceleration is to be measured. The demodulator grating  is de-coupled from the strains and influenced only by temperature changes. Both gratings have the same temperature coefficients to ensure that the peak position of the FBG seismic sensor  is always self-referenced to the temperature-sensitive demodulator grating .","In operation, the FBG seismic sensor head  responds to the seismic wave by means of an acceleration-induced strain change of the FBG sensor . The basic sensing principle for the optical grating is that the strain variation can be transformed into the fiber Bragg grating wavelength shift through the mechanical design. The sensitivity of the Bragg wavelength shift in response to strain on the grating is expressed as:\n\n\u0394\u03bb=\u03bb\u03b5\n\nHere, \u0394\u03bbis the change in central wavelength of the FBG due to the strain, \u03bbis the Bragg wavelength of the FBG, Gis a fiber optic axial strain gauge factor, and \u03b5 is the relative change in strain. For example, at the Bragg wavelength of 1550 nm, Gis 0.78 for silica fibers, and the wavelength strain factor is \u02dc1 pm\/\u03bc\u03b5. Thus, an imposed strain of 1000 \u03bc would lead to a 1 nm wavelength shift of an FBG sensor.\n","Referring now to , there is depicted a single-line demodulation system  that converts the wavelength shift into a light intensity variation, and subsequently to an analog electronic signal processed by electronic filters and amplifiers in accordance with the present invention. Thus, with this invention's single-line demodulation system, very small strain changes can be discerned readily through the detection of wavelength shifts in an FBG sensor. The single-line demodulation system  comprises a light source , an FBG sensor , a demodulator grating , a 3-dB optical coupler  and other signal detection and processing hardware. Light from a broadband light source , for example a central wavelength at 1550 nm and a spectral width of 40 nm, optical power 20 mW, is launched into a single mode fiber , and then enters one of the ports of the 3 dB coupler . One portion of the light goes to the FBG sensor  and is reflected from the FGB sensor  back to the demodulator grating . Both of the gratings have the same central wavelength under static conditions, with a grating central wavelength of 1550 nm. The FBG sensor  having a wavelength shift under strain now functions as an optical reflector, while the demodulator grating  operates as an optical filter without tension. In this way, the transmitted light intensity is directly related to the dynamic strain variations of the sensor grating of FBG sensor . The demodulated light  is transmitted from the 3 dB coupler  to the demodulating grating . The transmitted light  of the demodulator grating  exits into a photo receiver , where the optical signal is converted into an analog electrical signal . The output analog electrical signal  from the photo receiver  goes through an electronic band-pass filter and amplifier and is collected by a means for data processing  with control software that plots the collected data in real time. One data acquisition board used in a laboratory model of the present invention has a sampling rate of 2 MHz per channel for eight analog input channels.","Variations of the single-line demodulation system  of the present invention include the data processing means  being a computer, the data processing means  having suitable software programs, as well as suitable variations to the FBG sensor . Other variations include the optical coupler  having multiple ports, the light source  being a broadband light source, the transmitted optical signal being a demodulated optical signal, the seismic disturbances being a plurality of small amplitude sound waves propagating in the ground, the sensor head having a damping mechanism, the software programs including software for data acquisition, analysis, damping control, gain flattening and communication. When multiple sensors are positioned in the detecting area or in a sensor array network with numerous sensor gratings, each with a different frequency, the data processing means  can determine a greatest wavelength shift among the sensor gratings to identify a zone of intrusion within the detecting area. In an array of eight analog input channels, the sensor array can be configured with a sampling rate of 2 MHz for each of said channels.","FBG sensors are ideal candidates for multiplexing, which makes it possible to deploy a large-scale network sensor array in the battlefield or other area of operations. Multiplexing technologies known from the telecommunications industry include wavelength division multiplexing (WDM), time division multiplexing (TDM) and spatial division multiplexing (SDM). These can be applied either individually or in different configurations. These multiplexing techniques permit maximizing the advantages offered by each technology, reducing system cost and minimizing several potential shortcomings and drawbacks. These economies are especially important for seismic wave detection applications where thousands of sensors must be used to constitute a large array. An FBG seismic sensor system with multiplexed sensors is preferred.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0028","num":"0027"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 4","FIG. 4"],"b":["40","40","40","41","43","44","45","46","43","46","47","47","41","42","47","47","47","48","49","43","43","48","47","47","47","47","49","49","40"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0029","num":"0028"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 4"],"b":"50"},"Referring now to , the eight-channel FBG seismic sensor system  comprises a light source , a large 1\u00d74 optical fiber switch , small 1\u00d72 optical fiber switches , a group of photodetectors , a number of 2\u00d72 optical couplers  and a group of FBG gratings  disposed on FBG sensors . The FBG gratings  are fabricated with slightly different dimensions that correspond to different frequencies allowing the data processing means, not shown in this drawing, to determine the largest wavelength shift and thus identify which FBG sensor  is closest to the zone of intrusion. Although this FBG seismic sensor system  comprises particular sizes of large optical fiber switches , small optical fiber switches  and optical couplers , numerous other sizes and configurations are also within the contemplation of the present invention. Other variations include a sensor network with as many as several hundred channels, as well as many of the variations from the other embodiments of the present invention.","A series of experiments were carried out in an outdoor environment. The FBG sensor head was coupled into the earth by the roadside, with people passing by as the seismic wave source. Several kinds of man-made activities such as walking, jumping, and running were monitored and recorded.  show examples of the FBG sensor time-domain response for one such case with data taken in real time. The value on the y-axis is the output electrical voltage signal of the system.  is a chart depicting the background noise and  is a chart depicting the detection of the signal from a man running just a few meters from the sensor head. A significant difference was observed before and after this event, indicating that the sensor functions properly. The good signal to noise ratio of the detection system also can be observed from these charts. A high dynamic range of 80 dB is easily achieved in this system. The natural response frequency of the FBG sensor detection system was designed to be 25 Hz, corresponding to the most common ground wave frequency due to such activities. However, this can easily be tuned to a frequency range from a few Hz to 300 Hz with no change to the optical subsystem and minimal changes to the electronic subsystem. Mechanical damping and gain flattening were also incorporated in the experiment. Gain flattening is achieved within the electronic subsystem by incorporating a feedback loop to regulate the signal gain.","The present invention also encompasses a method for sensing seismic disturbances in real-time with a plurality of fiber sensor gratings, comprising the steps of forming a fiber sensor grating with an identical central wavelength to a demodulator grating, placing the sensor grating on a sensor head, positioning the sensor head in a detecting area, transmitting a light beam from a light source through the detecting area to an optical coupler, directing a portion of the light beam to the sensor grating, generating a strain resulting in a wavelength shift in the sensor grating and strain variations from a seismic disturbances in the detecting area, with the wavelength shift causing the sensor grating to function as an optical reflector, reflecting back the portion of the light beam from the sensor grating into the demodulator grating, generating an optical signal transmitted to a means for photo receiving, the transmitted optical signal having an intensity related to the strain variations, converting the transmitted optical signal to an analog electrical signal in the photo receiver means, sending the analog signal through an electronic band-pass filter and an amplifier, collecting the analog signal in a means for data processing and plotting the plurality of seismic disturbances in real time. Many of the variations that are possible with the other embodiments of this invention may also apply to this method.","These embodiments of the present invention are intended to be illustrative and not limiting with respect to the variety of possible embodiments. It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description of the seismic sensor systems are all considered to be within the contemplation of the present invention, which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials, components, geometrical arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein, without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly, the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description, but only by the appended claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 5"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIGS. 6A\u20136B"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
