---
title: System and method for delivering and metering powder aerosol
abstract: Safe, reliable and controlled dissemination of a powder aerosol over a relatively short period is achieved by infusing the powder aerosol into a holding chamber to form a concentrated powder aerosol cloud, reducing the volume of the holding chamber to exhaust the concentrated powder aerosol at a controlled rate, mixing a gas with the concentrated powder aerosol, and monitoring the admixture of gas and concentrated aerosol to achieve a target concentration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07290542&OS=07290542&RS=07290542
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07290542
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20041116
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND","SUMMARY","DETAILED DESCRIPTION","Balloon Inflation Stage","Aerosol Filling Stage","Controlled Dissemination Stage","CONCLUSION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, licensed, and used by or for the U.S. Government.","The present invention relates in general to devices and systems for delivering powder aerosols, and more particularly to a system and method for delivering and metering of a powder aerosol, such as a highly toxic chemical or biological agent, at a controlled rate for a relatively short period.","A \u201cpowder\u201d or \u201cdry\u201d aerosol, as used herein, is a relatively stable suspension of fine solid particles in a gas, especially air. There is an increasing need for reliable data on the effects of short term exposure to many toxic chemical, biological and radiological powder aerosols. For example, inhalation toxicology studies are needed to determine the effects of brief exposures to atmospheres containing minute amounts of highly toxic chemical, biological, or radiological threat agents. Such studies present numerous technical challenges and, thus, there is a shortage of useful data on the effects of short term inhalation exposure to many toxic powder aerosols.","It is difficult to achieve a controlled mass flow rate of a powder aerosol. Gravitational, fluid dynamic, and interactive forces, such as electrostatic, van der Waals, and capillary forces, can introduce significant flow rate variations. Electrostatic charge interactions between dry aerosol particles and device surfaces can also disrupt aerosol flows. Additionally, particle size distribution, particle morphology, and moisture content can influence powder aerosol flow rates.","As the toxicity of the test substances increases, exposure periods and concentrations must be controlled with greater precision. Short duration tests of extremely toxic dry aerosols can range from several seconds to 30 minutes or more, and aerosols must often be generated from very small quantities of powder, typically in the range of 25-500 mg. Particles may be less than 1 micron in diameter, can become easily airborne, disseminate rapidly in the air and adhere to a variety of surfaces. Precautions taken in handling and containment of test substances greatly complicate test administration. Simple procedures such as pouring and weighing of powders and the transfer of powder from one vessel to another, become slow and cumbersome to perform and meticulous clean up of the containment facility is necessary after each experiment.","A variety of systems have been used to generate atmospheres containing toxic aerosols. Systems typically incorporate two basic mechanisms. First, a metering device is used to control the flow rate of the powder to be tested. Second, a pneumatic device, such as a high velocity\/sonic air jet or a fluidized column of beads, is used to disperse the powder into an air stream which may then, for example, be administered to one or more test subjects in an inhalation toxicology study. Typical metering devices include helical screw feeders, rotary gear feeders, split tube feeders, rotating turntable feeders, and the like. While such devices may be capable of metering a freely flowing powder when the output is averaged over a long period, short duration feed rates vary considerably, and they are unsatisfactory for applications requiring flow rates that are substantially steady and controllable over relatively short periods. In addition, with the exception of the rotary turntable feeder, such devices require a minimum of several grams of powder to operate which rules them out for use where only minute quantities are to be tested. While the rotary turntable feeder is capable of operating with quantities of powder in the milligram range, an operator must ensure that the powder is uniformly spread out over the turntable in order for the device to perform satisfactorily.","These and other problems are addressed, at least in part, by embodiments of the present invention which provide for the delivery of a powder aerosol at a stable and controllable rate suitable for short duration applications. While it is anticipated that embodiments of the present invention will find use in a variety of applications where controlled delivery of a powder aerosol is needed without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, the embodiments illustrated below may be used in performing short duration inhalation toxicology studies of extremely toxic aerosol powers.","In general, in one aspect, a system for delivering a powder aerosol includes an aerosol generator for atomizing a powder, a holding chamber into which the atomized powder is infused to form a concentrated aerosol cloud, a means for reducing the volume of the holding chamber and thereby expelling the concentrated aerosol at a controlled rate from an outlet port of the holding chamber, a source of gas for mixing with the concentrated powder aerosol expelled from the holding chamber, and a monitoring device to monitor the admixture of gas and concentrated aerosol to achieve a target aerosol concentration.","In general, in another aspect, a method for producing a substantially constant mass flow rate of a powder aerosol over a brief period includes infusing a powder aerosol into a holding chamber to form a concentrated aerosol cloud within the holding chamber, reducing the volume of the holding chamber to expel powder aerosol from an outlet port, mixing the powder aerosol expelled from the outlet port with a gas and monitoring the mass concentration of the admixture of gas and aerosol to achieve a target aerosol concentration.","In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention, as claimed, may be practiced. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art, the present invention may be embodied in methods, systems and devices. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.","Embodiments according to the present invention provide systems and methods for the controlled generation of aerosols from small quantities of dry powder materials (between approximately 25-500 mg) and may be used in the conduct of short duration inhalation toxicology studies. Consistent and repeatable short duration aerosol feed rates are obtainable in embodiments according to the present invention. As will be seen, such approaches provide a simple, efficient, controllable and consistent dry aerosol delivery system suitable for a wide variety of inhalation studies. In the discussion that follows, embodiments of systems according to the present invention will be described first, followed by an explanation of their operation.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 1","b":["100","100"]},"System  is divided into two main compartments: an aerosol holding chamber  and a test chamber . Aerosol holding chamber  provides an atmospherically sealed enclosure into which a test powder is disseminated to form a concentrated aerosol cloud. Advantageously, the flow rate of test powder into the holding chamber need not be carefully metered. All that is needed is an infusion of a sufficient quantity of free flowing powder to form an aerosol cloud in holding chamber  that is somewhat more concentrated than the target aerosol concentration. A concentration that is approximately an order of magnitude greater than the concentration of aerosol to be supplied to test chamber  was found to be optimal in tests. As embodied herein, holding chamber  is made from a polycarbonate carboy rectangular enclosure that is approximately 25 liters in volume and dimensioned generally to be about three times taller than it is wide. Although sedimentation is generally not a serious problem with very small particles in short duration tests, where particle size and\/or test duration make sedimentation more likely, a taller holding chamber  will allow one to maintain the aerosol suspended for a longer period of time in the holding chamber. Other embodiments may, of course, employ larger or smaller holding chambers of different shapes and sizes and other suitable materials may be used in constructing the holding chamber.","Holding chamber  includes a number of openings or ports which provide atmospherically sealed inlets and outlets for flows of gas and aerosol conveyed through conduits attached externally to the ports. Ports A, B, C and D are shown in . Manually or automatically actuated valves regulate the flow through the various conduits. Valves , , , and  are illustrated in . To cause aerosol to be expelled from holding chamber  at a steady rate, the volume of aerosol holding chamber  is steadily reduced. There are several ways to accomplish this. Holding chamber  may be made from a flexible material that inflates as aerosol is introduced into the chamber and collapses as the aerosol is allowed to escape. Alternatively, holding chamber  may be made from a flexible material or be made collapsible like a bellows, and holding chamber  may be collapsed by applying force to one or more surfaces externally, such as by increasing the ambient atmospheric pressure surrounding holding chamber .","Perhaps the simplest way to change the volume of holding chamber , and the method preferred herein, is to displace the volume from within by inflating a cavity such as a bag or balloon positioned inside the chamber. As illustrated in , a balloon  is provided inside holding chamber  and is sealingly attached internally to port D so that the balloon may be inflated or deflated without diluting the concentration of the aerosol within the holding chamber . Balloon  is dimensioned so that it displaces very little volume within holding chamber  when it is deflated but is preferably large enough to substantially fill the inner volume of holding chamber  upon inflation and still remain in a semi-flaccid state (i.e., not stretched to near capacity) so that only a slight positive pressure is required to maintain inflation. Balloon , as embodied herein, is a Mylar weather balloon but may also be implemented using a variety of expandable bladders, bags, bellows, or the like. An observation port  is shown in a sidewall of holding chamber  and may be useful in some applications to view the state of inflation of balloon  and the concentrated aerosol cloud.","Thorough clean up is necessary following an experiment involving a highly toxic substance. It is a time consuming and tedious process. Lab equipment such as vessels, conduits and enclosures which may have been used to mix and measure toxic materials must now be thoroughly decontaminated. The containment facility for the experiment may also require extensive decontamination and clean up if toxic powder is disseminated. Embodiments according to the present invention greatly simplify the clean up process by providing a system that is capable of metering and dispensing a powder aerosol directly from the vessel in which it has been stored and by providing a holding chamber  that is disposable. Ports A, B, C and D preferably provide pneumatic or air tight seals and are equipped with quick release fittings or the like to facilitate safe removal of the external conduits. Holding chamber  and balloon  are preferably manufactured from materials that facilitate safe dismantling and disposal. As shown in  holding chamber  may be equipped with a carrying handle  to facilitate handling.","A conduit  is attached externally to port D and connects balloon  to valve . Valve  is preferably a three-way valve that selects between an inflow to port D provided through a mass flow controller (MFC)  which supplies positive pressure to inflate the balloon and a HEPA filtered vent  which enables the balloon to be deflated by porting to the outside. As balloon  nears maximum inflation it may impede the flow through Ports A, B, and C. Screens or mesh covers , and are placed over the inside openings of ports A, B and C to prevent the balloon  from impeding the flow after it has expanded within the chamber.","System  also includes an aerosol generator  which delivers a flow of aerosolized powder to holding chamber  at port A and is controllable by valve . Any one of a number of conventional devices may be used to generate the desired aerosol since, as noted, embodiments of the present invention do not rely on the aerosol generator to achieve the target mass concentration of the aerosol. Preferably, the aerosol generator is capable of dispersing a sufficient quantity of test material to fill holding chamber  with a concentrated aerosol. As noted, a concentration that is somewhat higher than the target aerosol concentration is generally desirable. An excessively concentrated aerosol, however, will result in excessive particle collisions and coagulation and should be avoided.","As illustrated in the embodiment shown in , aerosol generator  may be implemented using a conventional laboratory atomizer. In this example, atomizer  is a TSI, Incorporated Model 3076 designed for generation of liquid aerosols but also capable of dispersing a free flowing powder. In general, atomizer  should be able to deliver a quantity of powder appropriate for the material to be tested. The model 3076 operates at flow rates in the range of 1 to 3 liters per minute. Initial lab tests performed with a small sample of powder demonstrated that a free flowing powder aerosol in excess of 200 mg\/m3 may be generated for several minutes. Atomizer  includes feed and return lines  and , respectively, which are fitted with hypodermic needles to pass through a septum cap or the like of a feed vessel . As shown in , a loop is provided in feed line , which helps prevent coagulation of powder. Advantageously, the same container such as a septum vial used to store the test powder may be employed as the feed vessel  thus eliminating the risks and inconvenience involved in transferring test materials from one container to another. Atomizer  is driven by a compressed air source  coupled through HEPA filter  and shutoff valve . To further facilitate aspiration, the powder may be agitated within feed vessel  by a magnetic stirrer , shown beneath.","Valve  opens and closes the outflow from port B of holding chamber  through conduit  and is mixed with make up air source  and a particle separator . Make up air source  is mixed with the concentrated aerosol output from port B of holding chamber . Particle separator  is connected to conduit  and is configured to remove particles that are larger than desired for the test before discharging the aerosol to test chamber . Oversize particles are discharged into a collection pot  for safe disposal later. In the illustrated embodiments, particle separator  is implemented using a cyclone separator and separates particles after the aerosol is discharged from the holding chamber, however, particle separation could be performed at an earlier or later stage of the process.","The second main compartment of system  is test chamber . Test chamber  is a manifold that receives the test aerosol outflow from cyclone  which is essentially at the target test concentration and distributes test aerosol to one or more exposure ports . In the illustrated embodiments, test chamber  has been implemented using a multi-port rodent nose-only inhalation exposure chamber. Sample filter holders , , and , a cascade impaction particle sizing device and an aerosol monitor  are shown attached to several exposure ports  of test chamber . Other ports  may be attached to compartments containing test animals.","Aerosol monitor  continuously and directly samples the admixture of aerosol and make up air from a test chamber exposure port  and analyzes the sample to determine whether the particle mass concentration in the test chamber is on target. Aerosol monitor  outputs data, essentially in real time, which may be used by an operator or an appropriate control system to maintain the target aerosol concentration throughout the test. Aerosol monitor  preferably is a laser light-scattering photometer and includes an optical scattering cell that has appropriate sensitivity for monitoring aerosols in the 0.5 to 2 microgram range (or other range of interest) such as a DUSTTRAK\u2122 Aerosol Monitor manufactured by TSI Incorporated, or similar device. By varying the rate of inflation of balloon  in response to data from aerosol monitor  a high degree of precision in aerosol concentration provided to the test chamber  may be obtained.","While an operator may monitor and control the tests conducted with system , tests may also be automated using computer-based feedback control in response to data obtained from sensors including the aerosol mass monitor  in order to provide appropriate actuator signals through the operating stages of the system described below. Such an automated controller may be implemented using commercially available laboratory software such as Labview\u00ae and appropriate signal I\/O hardware.","In general, the sum of the outflows from the test chamber  will determine the operating flow through the test chamber . Operating flow is closely monitored to ensure that aerosol is delivered to the test chamber at the appropriate rate. Additionally, in the illustrated embodiments operating flow controls the particle size allowed to pass through cyclone .","Inflow to the test chamber  is make up air drawn through HEPA filter  mixed with the concentrated aerosol from port B of holding chamber . Several vacuum sources generate outflows through test chamber . Vacuum source  is coupled to test chamber  through mass flow controllers (MFCs) , ,  and  which regulate flows through test containers or tubes , , and . Dust Trak  also includes its own filtered vacuum source which provides a flow sufficient to monitor the aerosol concentration in test chamber . A main system exhaust control  is connected to test chamber  by conduit  and provides filtering, monitoring and regulating of the exhaust flow from test chamber . As shown in , main system exhaust control  includes a vacuum (VAC) source  coupled to a 30 liter MFC  to regulate the main exhaust vacuum, a carbon filter M18  (to remove any vapor contaminants from the exhaust that might be present), followed by a high efficiency particulate air filter (HEPA) . Valve  (which is normally closed during a test) controls the flow through conduit  which connects port C of holding chamber  to conduit  so that pressure can be equalized between test chamber  and holding chamber . Atmospheric pressure in test chamber  is monitored by a barometric sensor . Generally, the pressure should be slightly negative relative to ambient air pressure to make sure there is no leakage from test chamber  to the outside.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0031","num":"0030"},"figref":"FIG. 3","b":["400","302","101"]},"In some embodiments, in the outflow from aerosol generator  an accumulation of charge may cause particles to adhere to surfaces of conduits and chambers. Excessive charge can be neutralized by passing particles through an ion neutralizer such as a Thermo-Systems, Inc. Krypton-85 2 milicurie source, a corona discharge device or an ion source, or the like. Such devices are readily available and are generally effective at removing excess charge. Appropriate sensors and controllers may be employed to monitor and control electrostatic levels, humidity, temperature, gas pressure and concentration and other environmental variables, to maintain the proper experimental environment, as would be familiar to those of skill in the art.","Operation of a preferred embodiment of a system according to the present invention will now be described. In general, there are three main stages of operation: the balloon inflation stage, the aerosol filling stage and the controlled dissemination stage.","In this first stage, balloon  is inflated to fill the interior volume of the holding chamber . This is accomplished by positioning valve , preferably, a 3-way type valve, in the vent position (i.e., the inner volume of the balloon is vented to the outside). Valve , which connects holding chamber  to the main system exhaust control , is opened. Valves  and  are closed during this operation. As gas is drawn from chamber  by main system exhaust control , balloon  is caused to inflate. When full inflation is reached, valve  is closed while valve  remains in the vent position. Stage two of the operation, the aerosol filling phase, is now ready to commence.","The aerosol filling stage begins by opening valve  at aerosol fill port A to enable the flow from aerosol generator  to pass into holding chamber . Since balloon  is initially in the fully inflated position in this stage, aerosol flowing into port A will begin to force air out of port D and gradually collapse the balloon. Since the fill rate and box volume are known with prior experience, the operator can determine when the chamber is completely full and the balloon is collapsed by timing this stage. Additionally, the operator may be able to observe the inflation state of the balloon through observation port , if one is provided. By filling holding chamber  in this fashion, embodiments of the present invention effectively avoid the problem of mixing the incoming aerosol with clean air in the holding chamber and undesirably diluting the resulting aerosol concentration. Infusion of aerosol into holding chamber  is allowed to continue until balloon  is substantially collapsed. Additional air may be added to completely fill the box if the test powder has already been exhausted.","After balloon  has completely collapsed, valve  at port A is closed to stop the flow from aerosol generator  into holding chamber  and valve  is positioned to close the vent and to connect port D to the balloon MFC . The holding chamber  is now primed with aerosol and stage three, the controlled dissemination stage can begin.","The controlled dissemination stage begins by equalizing the pressure in holding chamber  with the pressure in the test chamber . This is accomplished by opening valve  for about 10 seconds and is done to prevent a sudden uncontrolled surge of aerosol into the test chamber when valve  is first opened. After the pressure has equalized, valve  is closed.","Controlled dissemination is initiated by opening valve  and immediately starting the MFC  which initiates a flow at a minimum preset value to fill the balloon. As the balloon inflates at a controlled rate, concentrated aerosol is forced out of the holding chamber  via port B which then mixes with particle free makeup air from chamber filtered air source . Together, the two flows add up to the total chamber flow. The resulting concentration of aerosol in the test chamber  is, in effect, determined by the mixing ratio of aerosol flow from the holding chamber and the particle free make up air stream. This diluted aerosol stream then passes through cyclone separator  prior to entering the test chamber. Cyclone separator  limits the size of aerosol particles reaching test chamber  thereby stabilizing the aerosol particle size distribution in the test chamber over the time course of the test. As the diluted aerosol stream flows through the test chamber, its mass concentration is continuously measured using optical aerosol monitor . Feedback from the optical aerosol monitor  is used to maintain the target aerosol concentration by appropriately varying the balloon inflation rate. Using this approach, it is possible to achieve well regulated (+\/10% of the mean or lower) aerosol concentration levels over a wide range of aerosol concentrations (of at least 0.1 to 50 mg\/m3 of air).","As has been shown, embodiments of the present invention safely and accurately provide for the controlled generation and delivery of aerosols from small quantities of powder for short duration inhalation toxicology studies. A number of embodiments of the invention defined by the following claims have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications to the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. For example, while the present invention was designed specifically for short duration testing of highly toxic airborne particulates, those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that embodiments may be employed for testing a wide variety of toxic and non-toxic airborne particulates, particularly for short duration tests with fine particulate aerosols including vehicle exhaust emissions, industrial emission sources, soil, volcanic dust, road dust, dust resulting from other human activities (i.e. agriculture), smoke from forest fires, smoke from recreational sources (i.e. campfires and fireplaces). In addition, embodiments of the present invention may be adapted for use with radioactive particulates by providing appropriate shielding. Various process stages may also be performed in a different order from the embodiments described herein, as would be apparent to those of skill in the art. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the invention, which is limited only by the following claims."],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 3"]}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
