---
title: Field emission assisted microdischarge devices
abstract: Field emission nanostructures assist operation of a microdischarge device. The field emission nanostructures are integrated into the microdischarge device(s) or are situated near an electrode of the microdischarge device(s). The field emission nanostructures reduce operating and ignition voltages compared to otherwise identical devices lacking the field emission nanostructures, while also increasing the radiative output of the microdischarge device(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07126266&OS=07126266&RS=07126266
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07126266
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040714
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF THE INVENTION","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS"],"p":["This invention was made with Government assistance under U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research grant No. F49620-03-1-0391. The Government has certain rights in this invention.","A field of the invention is microdischarge devices and arrays. Additional fields of the invention include all fields making use of incoherent light, and certain embodiments of the invention are further applicable to fields making use of coherent light. Example applications for devices of the invention that produce incoherent emissions include displays and more general lighting applications. Example applications for devices of the invention that produce coherent emissions include, for example, the fields of fiber optic communications, biomedical diagnostics, and environmental sensing.","Microdischarge devices, also known as microplasma or microcavity discharge devices, have been developed as a substitute for other light producing devices. Microdischarge devices are disclosed in U.S. patents that are incorporated by reference herein: U.S. Pat. No. 6,563,257, entitled Multilayer Ceramic Microdischarge Device; U.S. Pat. No. 6,541,915, entitled High Pressure Arc Lamp Assisted Start Up Device and Method; U.S. Pat. No. 6,194,833, entitled Microdischarge Lamp and Array; U.S. Pat. No. 6,139,384, entitled Microdischarge Lamp Formation Process; and U.S. Pat. No. 6,016,027, entitled Microdischarge Lamp.","In a recent application, we have disclosed phase-locked arrays of microdischarges devices, and microdischarge devices that are stimulated by AC, RF or pulsed excitation. The application is entitled Phase Locked Microdischarge Array and AC, RF or Pulse Excited Microdischarge, was filed on Apr. 22, 2004, and has been accorded Ser. No. 10\/829,666. This application is also incorporated by reference herein.","Carbon nanotubes are field emission nanostructures that have remarkable physical and electronic properties. The utility of carbon nanotubes as a field emitter has prompted the development of new methods for the controlled growth of nanotubes and the introduction of vacuum electronic devices, including displays and sensors. Electronic applications of carbon nanotubes have typically relied solely on field emission as the current source, which requires electrode voltages in the range of 150V up to 1 kV, and places constraints on the length and diameter of carbon nanotubes as well as the surface number density of carbon nanotubes in an array. See, e.g., Choi, et al., \u201cElectrophoresis Deposition of Carbon Nanotubes for Triode-Type Field Emission Display,\u201d Appl. Phys. Lett., 78, pp. 1547\u201349 (2001); Modi et al., \u201cMiniaturized Gas Ionization Sensors Using Carbon Nanotubes,\u201d Nature, 424, pp. 171\u201374 (2003).","Other nanostructures have also been found to readily produce field emissions. Examples include silicon carbide nanowires, zinc oxide nanowires, molybdenum and molybdenum oxide nanowires, organic semiconductor nanowires, and tungsten nanowires. See, e.g., Tang and Bando, \u201cEffect of BN Coatings on Oxidation Resistance and Field Emisssion of SiC Nanowires\u201d, Appl. Phys. Lett, Vol. 83, No. 4 (28 Jul. 2003); Lee et al., \u201cField Emission From Well-Aligned Zinc Oxide Nanowires Grown at Low Temperature\u201d, Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 81, No. 19 (4 Nov. 2002); Zhou et al., \u201cLarge-Area Nanowire Arrays of Molybdenum and Molybdenum Oxides: Synthesis and Field Emission Properties,\u201d Adv. Mater., Vol. 15, No. 21 (4 Nov. 2003); Chiu et al., \u201cOrganic Semiconductor Nanowires for Field Emission\u201d, Adv. Mater., Vol. 15, No. 16, (15 Aug. 2003); Min and Ahn, \u201cTungsten Nanowires and Their Field Electron Emission Properties,\u201d Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 81, No. 4 (22 Jul. 2002); and Wu et al., \u201cNeedle-Shaped Silicon Carbide Nanowires: Synthesis and Field Electron Emission Properties,\u201d Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 80, No. 20 (20 May 2002).","In the invention, field emission nanostructures assist operation of a microdischarge device by providing an auxiliary source of current. The field emission nanostructures are integrated into the microdischarge device(s) or are situated near an electrode of the microdischarge device(s). The field emission nanostructures reduce operating and ignition voltages of the microdischarge device compared to otherwise identical devices lacking the field emission nanostructures, while also increasing the radiative output of the microdischarge device(s).","The invention concerns microdischarge devices with field emission nanostructure assisted operations. Example embodiments of the invention include a microdischarge device having field emission nanostructures integrated into the device and a microdischarge device having field emission nanostructures disposed near a cathode of the device. An exemplary method of the invention includes using field emission nanostructures to assist in the operation of a microdischarge device. An exemplary array of the invention includes a plurality of microdischarge devices in which each device (pixel) has field emission nanostructures that assist in its operation.","The invention is applicable to many different microdischarge devices, including microdischarge devices described in the U.S. patents and the U.S. patent application that are incorporated by reference herein. The invention will now be illustrated by discussing preferred embodiment devices. Artisans will appreciate the more general applicability of the invention to other microdischarge devices. In describing the invention, particular exemplary devices, formation processes, and device applications will be used for purposes of illustration. Dimensions and illustrated devices may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration and understanding of the invention. The elements of the drawings are not necessarily to scale relative to one another. Schematic views will be understood by artisans as such views are commonly used in the art. Devices and arrays of the invention may be fabricated by processes well known to the semiconductor device and MEMs communities.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0022","num":"0021"},"figref":["FIG. 1","FIG. 2","FIG. 2","FIGS. 1 and 2","FIG. 1","FIG. 2"],"b":["10","12","14","15","12","12","15","15","15","14","16","14","16","10","18","10","18","20","21","19","19","14","20","10","22","20","15","21","14","20","22","14","15","22","20","15","21","14","20"]},"In example embodiments, the field emission nanostructures are carbon nanotubes. Other example embodiments include different types of field emission nanostructures, such as silicon carbide nanowires, zinc oxide nanowires, molybdenum and molybdenum oxide nanowires, organic semiconductor nanowires, and tungsten nanowires. Experiments have been conducted to demonstrate the invention. The experimental devices used carbon nanotubes as the field emission nanostructures. Artisans will appreciate the applicability of other field emission nanostructures.","Experimental devices having both the general  and  structure were tested and demonstrated improved results relative to otherwise identical devices lacking the field emission nanostructure assisted operation of the invention. For example, carbon nanotubes grown within 200 \u03bcm diameter microcavity Ni screen\/BN dielectric\/Ni cathode devices reduced operating voltages by as much as 18\u201322% when operated within a vacuum system at gas pressures of hundreds of Torr. The experimental devices were operated in a vacuum, and the cavities accordingly were not sealed with a transparent layer  that is shown in . Also, the experimental devices lacked the dielectric layer  shown in . In addition, the experimental  device was not an integrated device. In the experimental device, the carbon nanotubes were on a separate electrode held at a distance of \u02dc25 \u03bcm from the cavity.","The lower size limit of the diameter of the microdischarge cavities  in which the microdischarges are generated is limited primarily by the microfabrication techniques used to form the microdischarge cavities. Although the microdischarge cavities (for the prototype carbon nanotube assisted devices) are cylindrical and have typical diameters of 200 \u03bcm, fabricating microplasma devices of much smaller (<10 \u03bcm) or larger sizes is straightforward with well-known microfabrication techniques. In addition, the cross-section of the individual microdischarge devices need not be circular, though that is the shape of the microdischarge cavities  in the exemplary embodiments of .","The discharge medium is a vapor or a gas (or gas mixture) that produces light emissions. The type of discharge medium used in the microdischarge cavities  can alter the spectrum emitted by the microdischarge and, hence, the nature of the display. Discharge media in exemplary embodiments include a wide variety of vapors and gases such as the atomic rare gases, N, and the rare gas-halide molecules (i.e., rare gas-halogen donor gas mixtures). Each of the microdischarges is operated at pressures up to and beyond one atmosphere. Fabrication and the operation of microdischarges are discussed in the U.S. patents that are incorporated by reference herein: U.S. Pat. No. 6,563,257, entitled Multilayer Ceramic Microdischarge Device; U.S. Pat. No. 6,194,833, entitled Microdischarge Lamp and Array; U.S. Pat. No. 6,139,384, entitled Microdischarge Lamp Formation Process; and U.S. Pat. No. 6,016,027, entitled Microdischarge Lamp.","The experimental microdischarge devices were fabricated in Ni(50 \u03bcm thick)\/BN(\u02dc70 \u03bcm)\/Ni screen structures. A boron nitride (BN) layer was deposited by printing a BN-binder paste and the organic binder was removed by baking at 100\u00b0 C. The microdischarge cavity was formed by microdrilling and its diameter was 200 \u03bcm. This diameter was selected so as to have a moderate operating pressure (typically 100\u2013300 Torr for the rare gases) for the device. Boron nitride is advantageous as a dielectric since it is durable. As a refractory material, it is also able to withstand the high temperatures required for the chemical vapor deposition process in which carbon nanotubes are produced.","Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) were grown into the cavity of a hollow microdischarge cathode (for the device in accordance with ) or on the silicon substrate (for the device in accordance with ) using the hot-filament chemical vapor deposition (HFCVD) method. See, e.g., Park et al., J. Vac. Sci. Tech. B., 19, p. 958 (2001). A NiFe-alloy was used as a catalyst. Prior to the CNT growth, a 100 nm-thick titanium layer was deposited to enhance the CNT adhesion, which was followed by the deposition of a 60 nm-thick NiFe-alloy catalyst layer. The CNT growth was carried out using a mixture of 10% methane and 90% hydrogen as the source (feedstock) gases at a total pressure of 30 Torr and a substrate temperature of 700\u00b0 C. The deposited CNTs were multiwall in structure and the diameters of the nanotubes were typically 40\u02dc80 nm.","All of the experimental devices were operated with neon gas in microdischarge cavity 10 and 380 k\u03a9 of external ballast. Neon was selected because of its well-known visible and ultraviolet emission and serves as a baseline gas for facilitating comparisons. In the V-I characteristics of microdischarge devices without CNTs, the lowest operational voltage was observed to be 125\u2013130 V for p=200\u2013300 Torr (). At higher pressures (400\u2013600 Torr), the differential resistivity of the V-I curves is generally positive but the operating voltages are higher.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0030","num":"0029"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1","FIG. 3","FIG. 1","FIG. 4"],"b":"10"},"In the case of the experimental  device, reductions in operating voltage similar to those of  are obtained. Minimum operating voltages of 108\u2013112 V were measured for Ne gas pressures of 300\u2013600 Torr (). In contrast with the device structure of , however, the operating voltage of the  device does not continue to fall for Ne gas pressures above approximately 300 Torr. From the experiments, it is clear that increasing pfrom 100 to 300 Torr results in a rapid drop in the operating voltage but further increases in pressure cause the voltage to actually rise slightly. This is attributed to the fact that these data were obtained for a device in accordance with  in which the CNTs were grown on a Si wafer that was positioned \u02dc25 \u03bcm below the cathode aperture. Consequently, electrons produced at the CNTs by field emission must travel a short distance before entering the cathode. At 300 Torr of gas pressure in the device, 25 \u03bcm corresponds to several mean free paths for electron-neutral particle collisions.","In addition to the decrease in the device operating voltages, the starting (ignition) voltages also show marked improvement when CNTs are used. In , it is clear that microdischarge devices with CNTs exhibit ignition voltages 30\u201340 V lower than an otherwise identical device without CNTs. At low Ne pressures (\u2266300 Torr), the starting voltage for the  device (external CNT array) is \u02dc200 V which is \u02dc40 V lower than that required for an identical device without CNTs. For p>300 Torr, the impact of the CNT array on the starting voltage gradually diminishes until, at p=700 Torr, the difference in voltages is only \u02dc4% (11 V out of 270 V). Greater reduction in the ignition voltage is observed if the CNTs are incorporated into the microdischarge cavity, as in the  device. Furthermore, these improvements are sustained at higher gas pressures. At 700 Torr, for example, the device having CNTs in the cathode has a starting voltage of \u02dc200 V, or \u02dc19% less than that required by the device without CNTs. To summarize , above 300\u2013400 Torr, the ignition voltage required for the  device rises quickly and approaches the values for the device having no CNTs. This is again a reflection of the necessity for CNT-produced electrons to traverse a 25 \u03bcm gap before entering the cathode. Such is not the case where electrons are produced by CNTs within the cathode and, therefore, the  device voltage remains as much as 50 V below that for the device without CNTs, even for gas pressures up to 700 Torr.","Not only are the operating and ignition voltages of microdischarge devices improved by the incorporation of CNTs, but the radiative efficiency also improves. Measurements of the radiant output (in the 300\u2013800 nm spectral region) of the microplasma devices with CNTs were also made as a function of pressure with a calibrated photodiode. As shown in , which compares the results for the  structure (CNTs in the cathode) with those for a device without CNTs, the presence of the nanotubes increases the relative radiative efficiency (integrated over the 300\u2013800 nm spectral interval) over the entire pressure range investigated increased by as much as 9%. For a constant voltage of 240 V applied to the device, the radiative efficiency is higher by more than 5% for all Ne pressures between 200 and 700 Torr compared to another device having the  structure but lacking CNTs. One reason for the improvement is that the device with CNTs ( device) operates at higher currents but lower voltages than does the device without CNTs.","In summary, the impact of introducing a CNT array to the microplasma device is to reduce its operating voltage by as much as \u02dc22% for Ne in the 200\u2013600 Torr range. The largest effect (particularly at higher gas pressures) is observed if the CNTs are grown directly onto the interior wall of the cathode microdischarge cavity.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0035","num":"0034"},"figref":["FIG. 8","FIG. 1"],"b":["30","32","32","30","32","30","18"]},"This concept can be extended to cathodes of different geometries and devices as illustrated in .  is a partial view of a microdischarge device array generally based upon the  structure. In , a plurality of microdischarge cavities  share a common second cathode , which has been modified compared to  to include recesses  that have field emission nanostructures  as in the  structure. In an alternate embodiment, the cathode  forms the sole cathode for the plurality of microdischarge cavities, i.e., the conductive layer  is omitted.  illustrates part of a microdischarge device with a microdischarge cavity  having a tapered shape that is narrower toward the bottom of the microdischarge cavity . The versatility of the field emission nanostructure assisted microdischarge to a variety of microdischarge cavity geometries and devices will be apparent to artisans.","An embodiment of the invention in which a microdischarge device is driven by AC, RF, or pulsed (such as bipolar) excitation is illustrated in . Such excitation, in addition to DC excitation, may be used with any of the devices discussed above. In the case of the  device, AC, RF or pulsed excitation will produce discharge within cavity  in each half cycle of an excitation waveform. Conducting electrodes ,  are separated by a dielectric layer  that may range in thickness from less than 1 \u03bcm to several millimeters. During excitation, each of the electrodes  and  switches between acting as a cathode and anode. Field emission nanostructures are grown onto the interior surfaces of the microdischarge cavity  but are disposed to avoid an electrical short between the conducting electrodes , . Field emission nanostructure growth may cover some portion of the microdischarge cavity in the dielectric portion of the microdischarge cavity, provided that the device is not electrically shorted and will accommodate the required electric field strengths. An alternate embodiment includes recesses, as in  with the field emission nanostructures grown within recesses on the inner wall of the microdischarge cavity. A source  provides AC, RF or pulsed excitation and, in this device, optical radiation is emitted from both ends of the microdischarge cavity . In an additional embodiment, a reflective surface or element may be placed at one end of the microdischarge cavity to enhance the extraction of optical power from the other end of the cavity.","While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it should be understood that other modifications, substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications, substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, which should be determined from the appended claims.","Various features of the invention are set forth in the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":["FIG. 3","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":["FIG. 4","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0013","num":"0012"},"figref":["FIG. 5","FIG. 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":["FIG. 6","FIGS. 1 and 2"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":["FIG. 7","FIG. 1"]},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0016","num":"0015"},"figref":"FIG. 8"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0017","num":"0016"},"figref":"FIG. 9"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0018","num":"0017"},"figref":"FIG. 10"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0019","num":"0018"},"figref":"FIG. 11"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
