---
title: Nanostructured casting of organic and bio-polymers in porous silicon templates
abstract: A method of generating three-dimensional nanostructures that includes providing a silicon substrate, creating a porous silicon template from the silicon substrate, wherein the template is created to have a predetermined configuration, depositing a predetermined material on the porous silicon template, and removing the porous silicon template from the deposited material to leave a freestanding nanostructure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07713778&OS=07713778&RS=07713778
owner: 
number: 07713778
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20040213
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["PRIORITY CLAIM","STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST","TECHNICAL FIELD","BACKGROUND ART","DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION","BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION"],"p":["Applicants claim priority benefits under 35 U.S.C. \u00a7119 on the basis of Patent Application No. 60,447,228, filed Feb. 13, 2003 and Application No. PCT\/US2004\/004320, filed Feb. 13, 2004.","This invention was made with Government support under Grant Number DMR-97-00202 awarded by the National Science Foundation, and Grant Number F49620-02-1-0288 awarded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The Government has certain rights in the invention.","A field of the invention is nanostructure synthesis. Other fields of the invention include chemical sensors, biological sensors, bioimplant materials, optical switching devices, information displays (CRT, LCD displays), physically deformable structures, optical filters, self-reporting bioresorbable materials, photonic crystals, and dielectric mirrors.","Synthesis of materials using nanostructured templates has emerged as a useful and versatile technique to generate ordered nanostructures. Conventionally, templates consisting of materials such as microporous membranes, zeolites, and crystalline colloidal arrays have been used to construct elaborate electronic, mechanical or optical structures. However, these templates are not amenable to precise and accurate patterning techniques, limiting their respective applications as templates. In addition, to the inventors' knowledge, there is no general, rapid method to construct designed, complicated optical filters such as one-dimensional photonic crystals from common engineering materials such as plastics, polymers, or resins. Most methods used to prepare optical filters such as dielectric stacks rely on lamination or vapor deposition routes, and the complexity of the process increases with the complexity of the desired optical filter characteristics. Self-assembly routes, such as the spontaneous ordering that occurs when colloidal beads are allowed to pack tightly together, do not allow the design of an optical structure with arbitrarily chosen spectral features. Moreover, while silicon, porous silicon, SiOand alumina-based materials are readily configured according to precise specifications, the chemical and mechanical stability of porous silicon, SiOand alumina for a variety of applications has historically presented a significant problem.","The instant invention includes method of generating three-dimensional nanostructures using porous silicon or SiOas a template. The method generally includes providing a silicon substrate, creating a porous template from the silicon (or after thermal oxidation, SiO) substrate wherein the template has a predetermined configuration, then depositing a predetermined material in the porous template. The porous template can be removed to provide a freestanding nanostructure, or it can be left in place, yielding a composite nanostructure.","The instant invention includes the use of porous Si or porous SiOas a template, but permits a boundless number of materials to be cast therein and thereon, thereby exploiting the advantages of silicon as a template while using a host of other materials for the desired nanostructure, preferably materials optimized for use with an intended application. More specifically, the instant invention includes the manufacture and use of porous silicon and porous SiOas a template for generating nanostructures having predetermined configurations, thus exploiting the versatility of patterning available to silicon while not restricting the composition of the resulting nanostructures to silicon.","Embodiments of the instant invention include the manufacture and use of porous silicon and porous SiOtemplates having a predetermined configuration that is specific to the particular nanostructure to be generated. Porous silicon and porous SiOare particularly advantageous as templates because the porosity and average pore size can be readily tuned by adjustment of the electrochemical preparation conditions. However, the chemical and mechanical stability of porous silicon and SiOfor biological and environmental sensor applications has historically presented a significant problem. For example, porous Si or porous SiOare brittle solids that can easily crack when subjected to thermal or mechanical stresses. Generally, the instant invention provides for a porous template composed of silicon or SiO, into which is deposited a predetermined material. If the template is subsequently removed, a freestanding nanostructure having a structure approximating the inverse of the now removed template results. If the template is not removed, the composite material possesses much improved mechanical and chemical stability.","Therefore, embodiments of the instant invention are directed to a method of use of porous Si and porous SiOas templates, thereby capable of being precisely tuned to have a predetermined configuration and porosity, into which a separate material is subsequently desposited to create a nanostructure having the predetermined configuration and porosity of the porous Si template, and that is compatible with biological systems or harsh environments. In addition to generating 3-D nanostructures, porous silicon and porous SiOtemplates are capable of generating 1-, 2- and 3-dimensional photonic crystals, dielectric mirrors, microcavities, and other optical structures.","Thus, embodiments of the instant invention include the templating of solution-cast and injection molded thermoplastic organic polymers, inorganic polymers, biopolymers, inorganic oxides, and molecular organic compounds in porous Si or porous SiOmultilayer structures, thereby transferring the optical properties and nanostructure of the porous Si or SiO, to alternative materials. Elaborate 1-D photonic crystals may be generated from a variety of solution- or melt-processible organic compounds, organic polymers, inorganic polymers, inorganic compounds, and biopolymers by templating of the solution-cast or injection-molded materials in porous silicon or porous SiOmultilayers or other complex nanostructures.","Melt processing involves materials whose viscosity decreases dramatically with temperature, such that at a certain temperature the material becomes liquid and can flow into the porous template. At a certain lower temperature the material solidifies, at which point it can be removed from the porous template and still retain the micro- or nanostructure of the template. Solution processing involves dissolving the solid material in a solvent and infusion of the solution into the porous template. The solid residue remaining after evaporation of the solvent fills the voids of the porous template. After removal of the template by chemical dissolution, the polymer or molecular castings replicate the photonic features of the silicon or SiOtemplate. Use of the castings as vapor sensors, deformable and tunable optical filters, and as self-reporting bioresorbable materials is then possible.","The castings created in the silicon or SiOtemplate thus retain the photonic structure of the template. The castings may then be used for any number of applications, such as vapor sensors, chemical sensors biological sensors deformable and tunable optical filters, self-reporting, bioresorbable drug delivery materials, bioimplant materials, optical switching devices, and information displays (CRT, LCD displays), photonic crystals, dielectric mirrors, microcavities, and other optical structures.","Embodiments of the instant invention further provide for construction of simple and very complex photonic structures from virtually any plastic, polymer, biopolymer, organic, or inorganic material using a pre-formed, nanostructured template and solution casting or melt-processing techniques. Similar structures are typically made by thermal evaporation or molecular beam deposition techniques, and the resultant castings do not have porous nanostructures. Obtaining porous structures is desirable because porous structures may be used as sensors, for drug delivery, or physically deformable materials. In addition, the ability to tune the optical properties of porous Si by current-modulated electrochemical etch is well-established, and it provides a convenient route into templates whose nanostructure can be precisely controlled. This technique thus provides a route into materials with complicated optical and nanoscale features that cannot be made by any other route.","In one embodiment, porous silicon templates were prepared by a galvanostatic anodic etch of crystalline silicon wafers. The electrochemical process generates an optically uniform porous silicon layer, where the thickness and porosity of a given layer is controlled by the current density, duration of the etch cycle, and etchant solution composition. The photonic structures approximating rugate filters were prepared by applying a computer-generated pseudo-sinusoidal current waveform to the etch cell. This results in a porous nanostructure whose porosity varies with depth in a sinusoidal fashion. The direct mapping of pore size and porosity to current density is a key aspect of the template design. Although a sinusoidal waveform generates a rugate filter, the principle holds for any arbitrary waveform; the arbitrary current-time waveform maps to a porosity-depth profile in the template.","The resulting porous silicon multilayers were used as templates for the solution-casting of thermoplastic polymers, such as polystyrene. Thermoplastics are commonly used in injection-molding processes, and a large variety of polymers with useful mechanical, electronic, or optical properties are available. Following deposition of the thermoplastic polymer, the porous silicon template was removed by oxidative dissolution using a basic solution, such as an aqueous (1 M) KOH solution or NaOH solution. Removal of the porous silicon template from the polymer or biopolymer imprint by chemical dissolution provides a freestanding porous polymer film with the optical characteristics of the photonic crystal template. The resulting nanostructure is retained in the casting even after removal of the silicon template.","Nanostructured Siocan also be used as a template. In this case the porous Si template is first oxidized by thermal oxidation (oven in air or Oat temperature >150 deg C.) and then subjected to the casting process. The advantage of this approach over use of porous Si directly is that the SiOtemplate can be dissolved in aqueous hydrofluoric acid. For some applications the organic, bio, or inorganic templated materials may not be stable in the basic solutions needed to dissolve the porous Si templates.","Experimental data confirm that the casting retains the microstructure and the nanostructure of the silicon template. For example, as illustrated in , when using a template preconfigured to have a sinusoidally varying porosity gradient (i.e., a pseudo-rugate filter), comparison of the white light reflection spectra of the porous Si template and the polystyrene casting made therefrom demonstrate that both the template and the casting similarly exhibit the refractive index gradient of the pseudo-rugate filter. In , the spectral peaks correspond to the second order diffraction peak of the template and the second and third order diffraction peak of the imprint. The porous template was etched using a sinusoidal current varying between 38.5 and 192.3 mA\/cm, with 70 repeats and a periodicity of 8 seconds. The total thickness of the porous silicon film was 40 \u03bcm. The reflected light spectra were obtained using an Ocean Optics SD2000 CCD spectrometer using tungsten light illumination. Spectra are offset along the y-axis for clarity. Thus, in this manner, the nanostructure has retained the structure of the silicon template, even after the silicon template has been removed.","Additional experimental data demonstrate the fidelity of the microporous nanostructure resulting from the solution-casting of the thermoplastic polymer. Vapor dosing experiments may be performed and, as illustrated in , a dose-response curve for ethanol vapor in nitrogen gas may be observed and compared for both the porous silicon template and the thermoplastic polymer cast therein. The data presented as the wavelength of the second order peak maximum from the Rugate structure as a function of P\/P, where P is the partial pressure of ethanol and Pis the saturation vapor pressure of ethanol (44 Torr). The samples were prepared similarly to those whose spectra are presented in . Imprints prepared from melt-cast polyethylene display the optical spectrum characteristic of the Rugate structure, but they show no spectral shift upon exposure to ethanol vapor.","More specifically, the position of the spectral feature for a Rugate filter strongly depends on the periodicity and refractive index gradient of the structure. For a porous Rugate, the refractive index of the material is readily perturbed by adsorption and capillary condensation of vapors. Thus when porous silicon multilayers are exposed to condensable vapors such as ethanol or hexane, microcapillary condensation produces an increase in refractive index and a spectral red shift of the photonic structure. The shift of the spectrum upon analyte adsorption has been correlated with the concentration of analyte in the gas stream, and this phenomenon has been used as a very sensitive (ppb range) vapor sensor. The templated polymeric photonic crystals also display the microcapillary condensation phenomenon.","Thus, turning now to , the large relative response at pressures of the vapor within a few percent of saturation is characteristic of capillary condensation effects. As discussed, the chemical and mechanical stability of porous Si for biological and environmental sensor applications has historically presented problems. However, because the castings have the chemical and mechanical properties of the polymers used, embodiments of the instant invention provide a significant improvement in the design of experiments and devices that incorporate nanostructured photonic materials, while retaining the simplicity of fabrication inherent in the electrochemical synthesis of porous Si.","Another embodiment of the instant invention includes generation and use of castings made from flexible polymers, such as polydimethylsiloxane or a polydimethylsiloxane precursor, to provide mechanically deformable filters. These deformable castings could be useful for optical communications, optical switching, information displays, and information storage and retrieval, robust tags for bio-screening, and pressure sensors. The flexible polymers may be deposited into a silicon template via a plurality of methods, such as by casting of the flexible polymer from a solution, depositing of the flexible polymer from the vapor phase, or injection molding of the flexible polymer. Deformation of the cast material by application of either a tensile or a compressive stress produces a spectral shift in the photonic feature. For example, using polydimethylsiloxane, the spectrum shifted by as much as 10 nm by application of moderate pressures. This embodiment is advantageous in that rapidly tunable filters are highly desirable for optical switching and display applications. This embodiment yields a simple and robust means of manufacturing such devices that is compatible with conventional Si microfabrication technologies.","Still other embodiments of the instant invention may be used to generate biocompatible and bioresorbable polymers, which are of great interest for their use in prosthesis, medical suture, tissue engineering, and drug delivery systems. Preferably, a liquid or gas phase precursor to an inorganic or organic polymer, amorphous solid, or crystalline solid is cast into the template via infusion. More specifically, while numerous biocompatible and bioresorbable polymers may be used, polylactic acid, Polylactide-co-glycolide, polydimethylsiloxane, and polymethyl methacrylate are exemplary candidates.","For example, one of the deformable polymers could be implanted in an artificial hip joint and used to measure pressure or strain on the joint. It could be used similarly in other structural materials for mechanical or civil engineering applications wherein the strain would be measured by using an optical spectrometer or similar device to read out the wavelength of the photonic feature in the imprinted polymer. Biodegradable polyesters, such as for example poly(lactide) or poly(lactic acid), and Polylactide-co-glycolide, are the most widely studied and employed polymers for application in the controlled release of drugs.","In some cases, there is a desire to monitor the status of the biomaterial in vivo. Because the spectral reflectance peaks of the porous Si filters and their polymer castings can be tuned over a wide range (at least 400-10,000 nm), the peaks can be placed at wavelengths corresponding to a region of relatively low absorption in human tissue. As illustrated in , the spectrum of a porous Si photonic structure that exhibits two resonances, obtained through 1 mm of soft tissue of a human hand demonstrates that such measurements could be obtained in vivo.  demonstrates the ability to monitor the spectral signature of the nanostructured materials in vivo. The spectral \u201chand\u201d and \u201cRugate+hand\u201d are offset along the y-axis by +0.8 absorbance units for clarity. Measurement of the decay in intensity of the Rugate peak could thus be used to monitor, for example, the release of drug from an implanted biocompatible polymer.","By way of example only, medications such as chronic pain medications, cancer therapeutics, drugs for treatment of macular degeneration, birth control medication, and many others could be infused in the material to be implanted in the body. As the drug is released, medical personnel or others could monitor the release characteristics and residual life of the fixture. Monitoring of the fixture could be achieved by various methods, such as illuminating the fixture with near infrared, tissue penetrating light and a spectrometer placed on the surface of the skin close to the implant could receive the reflected or transmitted light from the fixture. Since the spectrum of the fixture indicates the amount of drug loaded, the system would provide a non-invasive means of monitoring drug release. In this manner, the optical signature of the implant or other drug delivery system can be tuned into the relatively transparent wavelength window of human tissue, and can been perceived in vivo. As the drug is released, the optical signature will change. By monitoring the change of the optical features one can monitor the drug delivery process.","Turning now to , for example, a caffeine-impregnated poly(L-lactide)(PL) film may be cast from a thermally oxidized porous silicon rugate template. Replication of the optical spectrum is observed in the biocompatible polymer upon removal of the porous silicon template. The photonic structure in the film is completely degraded in approximately five days in a pH 10 aqueous buffer solution. The intensity of the Rugate peak displays an exponential decay over the first three days, reflecting the progressive hydrolysis of the biopolymer in the aqueous environment. Simultaneous measurement of the decay of the Rugate peak and the appearance of caffeine in the solution (caffeine absorption feature at 274 nm) confirms that the drug is released on a timescale comparable to polymer degradation.","While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it should be understood that other modifications, substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications, substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, which should be determined from the appended claims.","Various features of the invention are set forth in the following claims."],"GOVINT":[{},{}],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0007","num":"0006"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 4"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
