---
title: Roving camera security system
abstract: A covert all-weather roving camera security system includes a monorail track, at least one self-propelled trolley able to move itself back and forth continuously along the monorail track, and a plurality of surveillance cameras attached to the trolley. A housing completely encloses the monorail track and the trolley and has a sunshield on its top to protect the cameras from overheating and a filtered window on its sides and bottom to prevent human eyes from seeing in the housing while permitting the cameras to see out.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07671890&OS=07671890&RS=07671890
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07671890
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20040423
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"GOVINT":[{},{}],"heading":["GOVERNMENT INTEREST","FIELD OF INTEREST","BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION","SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION"],"p":["The invention described herein may be manufactured, used, sold, imported, and\/or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.","This invention relates in general to security systems, and more particularly, to security camera systems.","Security camera installations are known in which stationary cameras are placed every 50 meters or so along a fenced perimeter to patrol the perimeter. In such systems, it is costly to provide the infrastructure and power cable to accommodate a lengthy perimeter. Also, because the cameras are stationary, there may be blind spots along the perimeter where corners are turned and the fence goes up and down hills. Another drawback is that the cameras are positioned to look down the fence line. If conventional chain link fencing is used, as the cameras look down the fence line the chain link mesh obstructs the line of sight. In addition, if the perimeter is heavily wooded, as the cameras look down the fence line they may fail to detect intruders who would clearly stand out if the fence were viewed head on.","It is therefore an object of this invention to improve the patrolling of a perimeter.","This and other objects of the invention are achieved in one aspect by a covert all-weather roving camera security system comprising a monorail track, at least one self-propelled trolley able to move itself back and forth continuously along the monorail track, and a plurality of surveillance cameras attached to the trolley. A housing completely encloses the monorail track and the trolley. The housing has a sunshield on its top to protect the cameras from overheating and a filtered window on its sides and bottom to prevent human eyes from seeing in the housing while permitting the cameras to see out.","Another aspect of the invention involves a covert all-weather roving camera security method comprising the steps of providing a monorail track, propelling a trolley back and forth continuously along the monorail track, televising images with a plurality of surveillance cameras attached to the trolley, protecting the cameras from overheating, and preventing human eyes from seeing the cameras.","There are advantages to the roving camera security system that one cannot get from stationary camera systems.","First, the roving camera security system is a \u201cterrain following\u201d system, and therefore there are no blind spots along the perimeter. The monorail turns corners with the perimeter fence line and goes up and down hills following the terrain.","Second, the system may be modular in form and assembled like a toy train track to meet the terrain requirements. All of the power and fiber cables can be embedded into the housing that encloses the monorail track and trolley. There is no need to dig trenches for laying fiber optic and power cables.","Third, a small number of roving trolleys can do the same work as the large number of stationary cameras required for a stationary camera system.","Finally, since the roving camera security system is installed parallel to the fence, the camera system looks at the fence head on, instead of looking down the fence line.","Additional advantages and features will become apparent as the subject invention becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein:","Referring now to , wherein like reference numerals designate like or corresponding parts,  shows the covert all-weather roving camera security system. The security system includes an elevated monorail track , which runs along the facility perimeter to be monitored, and one or more self-propelled trolleys  able to move themselves back and forth continuously along the monorail track. Each trolley  can cover a small area or perform a patrol of the entire perimeter. Four high-speed CCD video surveillance cameras  are attached to the trolley  to televise images of the perimeter. As shown in , the four camera positions are downward front, downward back, left and right sides. This arrangement provides the most imagery coverage to ensure detection of an intruder.","A housing  completely encloses the monorail track  and the trolleys . The housing  has a sunshield  on top to protect the cameras from overheating and to protect it from rain, hail and snow. The sunshield may be provided with solar cells (not shown) for powering the security system. Alternatively, wind generators can power the security system. The housing  has a near infrared-filtered window  on its sides and bottom to prevent human eyes from seeing in the housing, while permitting the cameras to look out. This makes the security system covert in operation. It also protects the security system from harsh weather elements, reducing the possibility of equipment failure.","The housing  can contain a plurality of fiber-optic cables for sending images from the cameras to an external control center. It can also contain a plurality of electrical cables for transmitting electricity to the trolleys  by way of the rail of the monorail track . A laser may be provided to download the video imagery to the rail of the monorail track  and pass it to an image processor for processing and transmittal to the control center over the fiber-optic cables contained in the housing .","It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":[{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0014","num":"0013"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0015","num":"0014"},"figref":"FIG. 2"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
