---
title: Method and system for secure content distribution
abstract: A system on a chip (SOC) device is disclosed comprising external outputs, and external inputs. A first secure storage location is operably decoupled from all of the external outputs of the SOC device during a normal mode of operation. By being decoupled from all external outputs, representations of the data stored at the first secure device are prevented from being provided to the external outputs. The decryption engine is also included on the system on a chip, comprising a first data input, and a private key input coupled to a first portion of the first secure storage location, and an output coupled to a second secure location. The decryption engine is operable to determine decrypted data from data received at the first data input based upon a private key received at the private key input. The decryption engine is further operable to write the decrypted data only to the first secure memory location and the second secure location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07406598&OS=07406598&RS=07406598
owner: ViXS Systems Inc.
number: 07406598
owner_city: Toronto, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20040422
---

{"@attributes":{"id":"description"},"RELAPP":[{},{}],"heading":["CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)","FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE","BACKGROUND","DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES"],"p":["The present application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60\/545,089, filed Feb. 17, 2004, entitled \u201cMETHODS AND PROCESSES FOR SECURE CONTENT DISTRIBUTION AND RIGHTS MANAGEMENT,\u201d naming inventor Paul Ducharme, which application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.","The present disclosure relates generally to providing secure communications and more particularly to a device and methods of protecting data used in secure communications.","Several forms of digital audio and video content are available to consumers. Audio and video content can be provided through media, such as compact disks (CD) or digital versatile disks (DVD). Service providers can be used to present audio and video content by broadcasting digital audio and video content to consumers, such as through broadband network services, digital cable broadcasts, or digital satellite and terrestrial transmissions. Generally, there are ownership rights associated with the audio and video content and consumers pay for services to receive the audio and video content.","To protect ownership rights, several methods are undertaken to secure audio and video content and ensure only valid consumers receive the content. For example, video associated with DVDs is generally scrambled to prevent undesired copying of DVD video content. Similarly, video content transmitted through digital satellite or digital cable broadcasts can be scrambled to only allow paying consumers to descramble the video content. Encryption and scrambling techniques use secret key or codeword values that are supposed to only be available to a device associated with the consumer, such as a digital cable, or digital satellite, set-top box. Once the secret key and\/or codeword values become public knowledge, an unauthorized consumer is capable of descrambling protected audio and video content.","From the above discussion, it should be apparent that systems and methods of providing secured key and codeword protection would be useful.","At least one embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system on a chip (SOC) for processing secure data. The SOC includes external output interfaces for providing information from the SOC to an external component or device. The SOC also includes external input interfaces for providing information to the SOC device from the external component or device. The SOC includes a first storage location that is operably de-coupled from all external nodes of the SOC. The first storage location is operably de-coupled so as to prevent representations of data stored in the first storage location from being provided at an external output interface. The SOC also includes a decryption engine having a first data input, and a private key input coupled to a first portion of the first secure storage location. In one embodiment, a sensitive decryption key, such as the private key, is stored in the first portion of the first secure storage location. The decryption engine is capable of decrypting data received through the first data input based on the sensitive decryption key and the decryption engine is further capable of storing decrypted data only to secure memory. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the SOC is capable of performing decryption and descrambling using sensitive decryption key and codeword values stored in storage locations internal to the SOC. Accordingly, access to sensitive decryption and descrambling values can be limited to the decryption engine and descrambler, and cannot be accessed external to the SOC. An advantage of at least one embodiment of the present disclosure is that sensitive values can be protected from malicious attacks designed to pirate protected audio or video content.","For purposes of discussion, the following terms are described. Content pertains to audio or video or other data that is interchanged between components, such as a service provider, consumer or gateway. A medium for the transfer of content can include, but is not limited to, satellite, cable or terrestrial broadcasts, CD, DVD, network, Internet, telephone line transmission or other mediums. A service provider includes a company or party that produces or distributes content or provides a service that facilitates the transfer of content. A consumer includes a device or party that receives and consumes content, typically as part of an agreement with the service provider. A gateway represents a device or party that provides an interface for the transfer of content between a service provider and a consumer. In one embodiment, a gateway may also operate as a consumer. A pirate includes a party or device that uses illegal or fraudulent methods to receive, duplicate, or re-distribute content, provided by a service provider, intended for a consumer.","Several methods for protecting transferred content from being intercepted by pirates exist. For the purposes of discussion, general methods used will be discussed and described; however, it should be appreciated that more specific methods are known in the art and the specific method used can be selected without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Scrambling is an algorithm that uses a seed value, referred to as a codeword, to modify large amounts of data in such a way that the data can be de-scrambled using the same codeword. Without the value of the codeword, the scrambled data is not sensible. Examples of scrambling techniques used in the art include, but are not limited to, the Data Encryption Standard (DES), the Triple Data Encryption Standard (3DES), the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), and the Digital Video Broadcast (DVB) encryption standard. The codeword includes a binary value, generally in multiples of 64 bits, that is used to scramble content. It should be noted that codewords can also include multiple binary values, such as initial vectors and sets of system keys, and that the codeword can change for a given set of content.","As compared to scrambling, encryption is a computationally complex operation that is used in public\/private key pairs systems to conceal a small amount of data, which may only be decrypted using an alternate key. Specific examples of encryption include, but are not limited to, the Rivest, Shamir and Adleman (RSA) encryption standard, or the Elliptical Curve Cryptography (ECC) standard. A public key includes a binary value that is used as a seed value in an encryption algorithm. The public key is generally used to encrypt\/decrypt messages or values, such as codeword values. A public key is not considered secret and is freely transmitted to others. Generally, messages encrypted using a specific device's public key can only be decrypted using the specific device's private key. The private key includes a binary value that is used as a seed value in encryption\/decryption algorithms. The private key is considered secret and not to be distributed to other devices.","Referring now to , a block diagram illustrating a system for processing scrambled information, such as video content, is shown according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. A system  is shown acting as a gateway for communication between a service provider  and a consumer . The service provider  provides scrambled content, at interface  or , containing content to be received by the consumer . System  ensures security by handling authentication, scrambling\/descrambling of the content, and encryption\/decryption of sensitive values used to scramble content before re-transmission to the consumer . The system  includes a system on a chip (SOC), such as SOC , which is capable of internally storing and generating sensitive values, such as codeword , and private key . To prevent descrambling of scrambled content, such as scrambled content transmitted over interfaces , , ,  and , from pirates, sensitive values, such as private key  are kept internal to SOC  in a secure storage location  and can not be accessed external to SOC . In one embodiment of the present disclosure, a network interface  provides the transfer of information, such as authentication and service requests, or the transfer of scrambled content or data between the service provider , the system  and the consumer . The network interface  can represent one of a plurality of different network interfaces, including but not limited to an Ethernet interface, a wireless broadcast interface or a modem and a telephone line, where the type of network interface can be chosen without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.","The system  includes the SOC , used to securely process scrambled content, such as content received at interfaces  or , dynamic storage  used to store unscrambled content, a system decoder  used to decode the content for display, and a local bus  used to transfer scrambled content, such as scrambled content and messages provided over interfaces ,  and  between the system  and the network interface  and external storage . In one embodiment of the present disclosure, external storage  is used by system  for the storage of scrambled content .","In one embodiment of the present disclosure, SOC  includes codeword generator , a secure storage location (private key storage)  having at least one private key , a secure storage location (protected storage)  having at least one codeword , an encryption\/decryption block , a scrambler\/descrambler , content receiver , public storage (other memory)  having a unique identifier (ID)  and a public key , a transcoder , internal decoder  and watermark block . The scrambler\/descrambler  includes a codeword input  for interfacing with protected storage , a data input  for interfacing with content receiver  and a data output for interfacing with local bus . SOC  is used to process security associated with the handling of scrambled content, such as scrambled content received over interfaces  or , provided from service provider . Note that service provider  is illustrated as providing content over both the interface  and the interface . It will be appreciated that the service providers  may be a common service provider, or different service providers. For example, the service provider  could be a service provider whereby the content received at interface  is received over a terrestrial or cable connection, whereas the service provider  may be the same or a different service provider that is shown to provide scrambled content to alternate interface , such as the Internet. In addition, even though the scrambled content at interface  to the local bus  is not illustrated as being receivable at the data-in port , it will be appreciated that the interfaces illustrated as providing scrambled content within the SOC  may actually be common or shared interfaces or interfaces that can otherwise share data amongst themselves. However, in accordance with the present disclosure, the interfaces, whether shared or individual, need to remain decoupled from the protected storage locations  and  as further described herein.","In one embodiment, system  includes a watermark module . Watermark module  can be used to encode content stored in dynamic storage  with a value associated with system  or SOC , such as unique ID . The value is encoded into the content in a manner so that the value can be extracted from the content at a later time. Accordingly, the watermark can be used to track which system or SOC was compromised to extract the content should the content be pirated. It will be appreciated that while the watermark  is not specifically illustrated to be connected to any specific component, that the watermark module  could be connected in a variety of embodiments. In one embodiment, the watermark module  would be connected to the interface  between the scrambler\/descrambler  to insert watermark encoding into the content prior to its being stored in dynamic storage . In alternate embodiments, the watermark could be connected to the interconnects  or  to allow for insertion of the watermark encoding after transcoding of information by the transcoder , or after the internal decoding by internal decoder  of the content received over interface .","Scrambled content is secured through the use of secret values, such as codeword  and private key . In one embodiment of the present disclosure, system  and SOC  operate in a blind encryption scheme where the secret values represented by the private keys are not observable outside of SOC  by controlling access to the portions of memory used to store those values. A system where a source and destination system each operate in blind encryption mode is referred to as a double-blind encryption system, or a double-blind security system, or a double-blind decryption system.","In a specific embodiment, before a source will provide protected content to a destination it will need to verify that the destination is a blind encryption system, thereby ensuring double-blind operation. Likewise, the destination can verify that a source is a blind encryption system to ensure double-blind operation. Encryption\/decryption block  includes an encryption engine  and a decryption engine . The encryption engine  uses a provided public key, such as public key  to encrypt a value to be transmitted external to SOC . It should be noted that the values of the public keys used by the encryption engine  can be accessed from protected storage  or from other memory associated with system  or SOC , such as memory . Public keys are typically known outside of SOC  and do not need to be protected. The decryption engine  uses private key  to decrypt encrypted information provided to SOC . It should be noted that data decrypted by decryption engine  should be stored in a secured location, such as protected storage  or private key storage . Secret values, such as codeword  should not be provided external to SOC  before being encrypted by encryption engine .","Interfaces between SOC  and local bus , dynamic storage , system decoder  and service provider  represent input interfaces allowing information to be provided to SOC  and output interfaces allowing information to be provided from SOC . SOC  ensures the integrity of scrambled content at interface  by protecting secret values and secure storage locations, such private key storage  and protected storage , from access at any of the interfaces. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, SOC  performs tighter security on more critical, or sensitive, information. For example, Table 1 shows a list of different types of information associated with the secure transport of content.",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0024","num":"0023"},"tables":{"@attributes":{"id":"TABLE-US-00001","num":"00001"},"table":{"@attributes":{"frame":"none","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0"},"tgroup":[{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"1"},"colspec":{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"217pt","align":"center"}},"thead":{"row":{"entry":"TABLE 1"}},"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":{"@attributes":{"namest":"1","nameend":"1","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}},{"entry":"Values Associated with Secure Content Vs. Security Criticality"}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"center"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Information Type","Security Criticality","Comment"]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}},{"@attributes":{"align":"left","colsep":"0","rowsep":"0","cols":"4"},"colspec":[{"@attributes":{"colname":"offset","colwidth":"14pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"1","colwidth":"56pt","align":"left"}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"2","colwidth":"84pt","align":"char","char":"."}},{"@attributes":{"colname":"3","colwidth":"63pt","align":"left"}}],"tbody":{"@attributes":{"valign":"top"},"row":[{"entry":[{},"Private Key","1","Most Critical"]},{"entry":[{},"Group Key","2"]},{"entry":[{},"Service Key","3"]},{"entry":[{},"CW","4"]},{"entry":[{},"Digital HD","5"]},{"entry":[{},"Content"]},{"entry":[{},"Digital SD","6"]},{"entry":[{},"content"]},{"entry":[{},"Analog Content","7"]},{"entry":[{},"Encrypted Key","8"]},{"entry":[{},"Encrypted CW","9"]},{"entry":[{},"Public key","10"]},{"entry":[{},"Scrambled","11","Least Critical"]},{"entry":[{},"Content"]},{"entry":[{},"Etc . . ."]},{"entry":[{},{"@attributes":{"namest":"offset","nameend":"3","align":"center","rowsep":"1"}}]}]}}]}}},"As shown, in Table 1, some values associated with the processing of secure content are considered more critical to security, such as private key  and codeword , than others. A measurement of security criticality presented is meant to illustrate a ranking of how valuable a particular information type is to the integrity of a secure system. Information types having a lower valve security criticality ranking, i.e., 1, would be more damaging to the integrity of a secure system if discovered than information types having a higher security criticality ranking. The criticality of an information type, in relation to security, can be lessened by altering the associated information, so it is unusable, such as by encrypting a codeword value or scrambling content. It should be appreciated that while Table 1 provides unique security criticality rankings for each information type, several information types may be assigned to a same security criticality ranking. A security criticality ranking as provided in Table 1 can allow for system definitions that may dictate how information types at or below a particular security criticality value would be protected. For example, an information type having a security criticality ranking of \u20181\u2019 can indicate that neither data nor a representation of the data associated with the information type be provided at an output associated with a secure system, such as SOC . In one embodiment of the present disclosure, private key storage  and protected storage  represent storage locations operably de-coupled from external interfaces of SOC  during a normal operating mode. Accordingly, SOC  protects private key  and codeword  from external access.","Referring now to , a block diagram illustrates storage  () to be decoupled from external input and output interfaces associated with SOC , according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, SOC  includes external interfaces  and , and decoupling modules  and . External output interface  is used to interface to external components of system , such as local bus , and provide information, such as scrambled content over interface , from SOC  to the external components. Similarly, external input interface  can be used to provide information from the external components to SOC . Decoupling modules  and  may provide an interface between protected storage  and external output interface  and external input interface , respectively, to provide access to the protected storage in limited circumstances.","In one embodiment, decoupling modules  and  provide access to portions of protected storage  during a test mode of SOC . Decoupling module  can provide write access to protected storage , through data line  and address line , allowing external input interface  to store information in protected storage  for the purposes of testing or loading initial values. Decoupling module  can be used to provide read access to protected storage  to external output interface  during a test mode of SOC , thereby providing data through data line . In one embodiment, external interfaces  and  include test interfaces associated with SOC , such as a JTAG test interface, or other data interfaces. Accordingly, decoupling modules  and  can be used to store and read values into protected storage  during the test mode.","When operating in a secure mode, the decoupling modules  and  will prevent information stored in protected storage , such as the code word , from being provided to the external output interface . As a result, it will not be possible either through the execution of internal instructions, or by accessing external interfaces  and  to retrieve data stored within protected storage . This is accomplished in one embodiment, by disabling logic in the decoupling module  after test mode and\/or module  through the assertion of specific control bits to disable logic associated with accessing stored information. Alternatively, a physical destruction of a fuse, or fuse-type connection can also be implemented to disable the logic coupling of protected storage  from the external output interface .","In an alternate embodiment, the decoupling module  operates to destroy any data stored at protected storage  as part of entering a test mode. In this embodiment, once the data is destroyed and test mode is fully entered, the user would be able to store and read information from protected storage . However, the information being stored and read would be information provided solely by the user. Information stored during test mode in protected storage  would not be observable external the system once test mode is exited. Data stored during test mode may or may not be observable during test mode, depending upon specific implementations.","In yet another alternate embodiment, any access to the protected storage  during a mode other than test mode, would result in the data being destroyed prior to it being read. A further embodiment would result in indeterminate, or predetermined value to be returned when an address request of protected storage  is made to decoupling module . For example, in response to receiving an address as part of a read request to protected storage , the decoupling module  can communicate with decoupling module  to provide a dummy data to the external output interface , thereby bypassing the protected storage . This communication can be through protected storage , or bypass protected storage . Based upon these embodiments, it will be appreciated that both the decoupling module  and the decoupling module  can be disabled, or that in an alternative implementation, the decoupling module  may remain enabled, and possibly not even exist.","It will be further appreciated, that the decoupling modules  and  may actually represent the lack of specific circuitry implementing the ability to provide information within protected storage  to the output interface . In other words, even during a test mode, or any other mode of operation, the decoupling module  could represent the lack of interface connections prohibiting protected data, such as the code word  from ever being provided to an output interface of the SOC. It would be appreciated in such an implementation, that the functionality of the protected storage  would need to be verified using alternative test methods, such as providing specific coded data to be descrambled and sent external for verification. Note that where a test mode of operation, and a secure mode of operation (also referred to as a normal mode of operation) exists, the decoupling modules  and  are designed as such to implement a one-way security enable, whereby after implemented, it is not possible to disable the security measures which prohibit observability of the protected storage , which is external SOC .","In one embodiment, write access to codeword  during normal operation is only allowed through encryption\/decryption block  and codeword generator . Once decoupling modules  and  are disabled, direct access to protected storage  is no longer available to external interfaces  and . Accordingly, the value of codeword  is read accessible only internal to SOC , for use at the codeword input  of scrambler\/descrambler  and at a data input of encryption engine . The SOC is designed so that the only representation of the value of codeword  is only provided external to SOC  by first encrypting the value of codeword .","Referring now to , a block diagram illustrating a decoupling of private key storage  () from external input and output interfaces associated with SOC , according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. In one embodiment, during a test mode, decoupling module  provides write access of private key storage  to external input interface . Similarly, during the test mode, decoupling module  can provide read access of information at private key storage  to external output interfaces . In an alternate embodiment, no read access is provided to storage  during any mode of operation. During the test mode, or an initialization of SOC , decoupling module  can also be used to store a private key value into a portion of private key storage , such as private keys  and\/or . In one embodiment, once the test mode or initialization mode are completed, decoupling modules  and  are disabled to decouple the storage location  from the external output interface , and\/or to external input interface  to prevent further access to private key storage . In one embodiment, decoupling modules  and  are permanently disabled, and only the decryption engine  of the encryption\/decryption block  has access to private key storage  at the private key input of the decryption engine . In one embodiment, write access to private key storage  is provided to the decryption engine  of encryption\/decryption block  to allow encrypted private keys, decrypted by the decryption engine  using private key , to be written into private key storage , such as to private key . In an alternate embodiment, only read access of private key storage  is allowed and values of private keys, such as private keys  and , cannot be read accessed by other components of SOC  or external to SOC . Accordingly, more critical values are kept internal to SOC  and only less critical values, such as public key , scrambled or encrypted values, are provided external to SOC . Decoupling modules  and  may operate in a manner similar to modules  and  of .","Referring back to , in one embodiment of the present disclosure, SOC  receives scrambled content  provided by a service provider, such as service provider , intended for a particular consumer, such as consumer , connected to network interface . The scrambled content  is typically scrambled using a codeword generated by the service provider . The service provider codeword is encrypted using a public key  associated with SOC . The decryption engine  of encryption\/decryption block  is capable of decrypting the encrypted value of the received codeword using the value of private key . The decrypted codeword value is then stored in protected storage  and used by scrambler\/descrambler  to descramble the scrambled content. The codeword is only accessible by scrambler\/descrambler  for descrambling scrambled content. It should be noted that additional codewords could be stored in protected storage . Furthermore, access to some of the additional codeword portions of protected storage  can be made inaccessible by the encryption\/decryption block . In one embodiment, a portion of protected storage , used to store data provided by the decryption engine , is secured so that the data is not provided external to SOC  in an unencrypted or scrambled form. For example, it may be desirable for codewords from external sources in storage , such as codewords from service provider , to not be accessible by the encryption\/decryption module .","In one embodiment of the present disclosure, private key  is stored into private key storage  as part of a write-once function associated with test or initialization, in which the value of private key  can no longer be altered. Furthermore, the value of private key  can be uniquely assigned to SOC  and other chips similar to SOC  will be assigned a different private key value. Similarly, the values of public key  and unique ID  are uniquely assigned to SOC . In one embodiment of the present disclosure, a method of authentication referred to as digital signing, is disabled in encryption\/decryption block  by not allowing the decryption engine  of encryption\/decryption block  to send decrypted messages to any external output interface. Digital signing can be exploited, such as through the use of a Trojan Horse attack, to uncover the value of a secret codeword, such as codeword . By disabling and\/or preventing digital signing, SOC  can be protected from such an attack. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, encryption\/decryption block  is further capable of performing encryption operations in parallel with other functions of system . Serial execution of decryption code generates measurable changes in current draw that can be detected external to SOC  to exploit private keys, such as private key . In comparison to serial execution of decryption code, parallel execution of decryption code by the decryption engine  cannot be as readily detected. Accordingly, encryption operations can be hidden from external monitoring of system .","In one embodiment, the descrambled content is stored in dynamic storage , prior to display. In another embodiment, the descrambled content is re-scrambled using an internal codeword, codeword , which may be a codeword provided by service provider  or generated by the codeword generator , prior to storage in dynamic storage . Re-scrambled content can be stored, along with an encrypted value of codeword , external to system , such as in storage .","As identified in Table 1, scrambled content is not considered critical. By being scrambled with a particular codeword value, such as codeword , the scrambled content cannot be unscrambled without the knowledge of the codeword. Accordingly, scrambled content is generally stored with an encrypted version of the codeword used to scramble the content. In one embodiment, a codeword used to scramble stored data is encrypted using public key , associated with SOC  and stored with the scrambled content. It should be noted that more than one codeword can be used by SOC . In one embodiment, stored content can be associated with a time in which the content can be decrypted, such as a content expiration date. Such an expiration date can be a timecode used by the encryption\/decryption block  or scrambler\/descrambler  to determine if the stored content is valid. Alternatively, system  can be used to clear stored content based on a timecode associated with the stored content. In another embodiment, codeword values stored with the stored content expire as old codeword values are replaced by new values generated by codeword generator . Similar to scrambled content stored by SOC , scrambled content sent to consumer  is sent with a codeword encrypted using the consumer's public key , associated with chip  of consumer . Accordingly, only consumer  can decrypt the codeword, using a private key  known only internal to chip  of consumer , and then descramble the scrambled content.","In one embodiment, codeword generator  is used to generate random values and stores the random values as codeword  for use by the scrambling engine of the scrambler\/descrambler . When multiple codewords are generated, new content is scrambled using the newly generated codeword values, the prior value of the codeword is no longer useful for descrambling newly scrambled content. In one embodiment, access to a portion of protected storage  used for storing codeword  is only accessible by codeword generator  to assure that no external devices are allowed to dictate and\/or alter the values of codeword .","In one embodiment of the present disclosure, transcoder  modifies the received content that is stored in dynamic storage . Transcoder  is capable of altering a bit-rate and\/or resolution associated with content stored in dynamic memory . For example, the bit-rate and\/or resolution associated with the content stored in dynamic memory  can be reduced to only a portion of the maximum bit-rate or resolution associated with the content, such as to a standard bit-rate and\/or resolution, or can be reduced to match a lower bit-rate or resolution accepted by consumer . By reducing the bit-rate and\/or resolution associated with content stored in dynamic memory , an overall value of the stored content can be reduced. For example, if a pirate compromises the content, the value of the compromised content is lowered due to the quality of the content being degraded from a maximum quality associated with the content. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the internal decoder , associated with the SOC , is used to provide decoded content to the portion of system  external chip .","In one embodiment of the present disclosure, other secure systems interfacing with system , such as consumer  include chips similar to SOC , such as chip . Accordingly, a double-blind encryption scheme can be incorporated in which neither a source system nor a destination system has direct or indirect observability to the value of its own private key for export directly or as an encoded representation. Accordingly, the values of the private keys can be protected from attacks made on the systems to determine the values of the private keys. The ability of a source system to communicate with a destination system can be based upon the ability of both systems being blind systems, thereby assuring a double blind encryption scheme is used.","Referring now to , a flow diagram illustrating a method of providing content between a service provider, such as service provider  (), and a consumer, such as consumer  () is shown, according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. In the illustrated embodiment, the consumer  is associated with an ID , a public key , and includes chip , having a protected private key . System  () is associated with a unique ID , a public key  and includes SOC  having a protected private key  associated with the system . Service provider  is associated with a public key . System  operates as a gateway and provides authentication and content between the service provider  and the consumer .","In step , the consumer  provides an authentication request to the system . The authentication request includes the ID , associated with the consumer . In step , the system  provides an authentication request, for consumer , to the service provider . The authentication request provided by system  includes an encrypted representation of ID  and ID , associated with system . The representations of Ids  and  are encrypted using public key . In step , once the service provider  has validated Ids  and , the service provider  sends a validation response, indicating authentication was successful, to the system . The validation response includes an encrypted representation of public codeword . The encrypted representation of public codeword  is encrypted using public key . In step , system  provides a validation response to consumer . The validation response includes an encrypted representation of public key . The encrypted representation of public key  is encrypted using public codeword .","In step , the consumer  sends a service request to the system . The service request is encrypted by consumer  using public key . In step , response to the service request of step , the system  sends the consumer  an acceptance. The acceptance includes a codeword value, which is encrypted using public codeword . In one embodiment, the codeword value is randomly generated by SOC , such as through codeword generator  (). In step , the system  provides scrambled content to the consumer . The content is scrambled using the codeword provided to the consumer  in step .",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0044","num":"0043"},"figref":["FIGS. 5 and 6","FIG. 5"],"b":"501"},"At step , the protected memory is erased in response to the request. Either some or all of the protected memory can be erased in response to any and all requests. In one embodiment, only the specific location being accessed is erased.","At step , access to the protected memory is allowed after it has been erased. In this manner, the protected memory is decoupled from external interfaces in that the contents of the protected memory cannot be provided to external interfaces.","In , at step , an access to protected memory is requested.","At step , a determination is made whether the system is in a test mode. If not in test mode, flow proceeds to step , where the access request is denied. As indicated in block , the access can be denied by disabling access to the protected memory, or by providing dummy data in response to the request. By denying the request for data stored at the protected memory when not in test mode, it remains decoupled from the external interface.","When in test mode, the flow proceeds from step  to step . At step , the protected memory is erased in response to being in test mode. Block  indicates that the protected memory can all be erased in response to merely entering test mode. Alternatively, protected memory can be erased as it is requested during test mode. In this manner, the protected memory remains decoupled from the external interfaces of the Soc.","At step , externally observable accesses are allowed after the protected memory is erased.","In the preceding detailed description of the embodiments, reference has been made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure, and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical, mechanical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. To avoid detail not necessary to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure, the description may omit certain information known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore, many other varied embodiments that incorporate the teachings of the disclosure may be easily constructed by those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein, but on the contrary, it is intended to cover such alternatives, modifications, and equivalents, as can be reasonably included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure. The preceding detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present disclosure is defined only by the appended claims."],"BRFSUM":[{},{}],"brief-description-of-drawings":[{},{}],"description-of-drawings":{"heading":"BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS","p":["Specific embodiments of the present disclosure are shown and described in the drawings presented herein. Various advantages, features and characteristics of the present disclosure, as well as methods, operations and functions of related elements of structure, and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture, will become apparent upon consideration of the following description and claims with reference to the accompanying drawings, all of which form a part of this specification, and wherein:",{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0008","num":"0007"},"figref":"FIG. 1"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0009","num":"0008"},"figref":"FIG. 2"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0010","num":"0009"},"figref":"FIG. 3"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0011","num":"0010"},"figref":"FIG. 4"},{"@attributes":{"id":"p-0012","num":"0011"},"figref":"FIGS. 5 and 6"}]},"DETDESC":[{},{}]}
